10-K


a09-23484_110k.htm

10-K


UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from          to

Commission
file number 1-14064

The Estée
Lauder Companies Inc.

(Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code

212-572-4200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:

Title of
  each class

Name of
  each exchange

on which registered

Class A
  Common Stock, $.01 par value

New York Stock
  Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.  Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files).  Yes

o

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
(§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of “large accelerated
filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
  filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated
  filer

o

(Do not check if a
  smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting
  company

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).  Yes

o

No

ý

The aggregate market value
of the registrant’s voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was approximately $3.45 billion at December 31, 2008 (the last
business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second quarter).*

At August 14, 2009,
118,631,373 shares of the registrant’s Class A Common Stock, $.01 par
value, and 78,067,261 shares of the registrant’s Class B Common Stock,
$.01 par value, were outstanding.

Documents
Incorporated by Reference

Document

Where
  Incorporated

Proxy Statement
  for Annual Meeting of

Stockholders to be held November 13, 2009

Part III

* Calculated by excluding
all shares held by executive officers and directors of registrant and certain
trusts without conceding that all such persons are “affiliates” of registrant
for purposes of the Federal securities laws.

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

Table of
Contents

Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995.  Such statements include,
without limitation, our expectations regarding sales, earnings or other future
financial performance and liquidity, our long-term strategy, restructuring and
other initiatives, product introductions, entry into new geographic regions,
information systems initiatives, new methods of sale and future operations or
operating results.  Although we believe
that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of
our knowledge of our business and operations, we cannot assure that actual
results will not differ materially from our expectations.  Factors that could cause actual results to
differ from expectations are described herein; in particular, see “Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Forward-Looking
Information.”  In addition, there is a
discussion of risks associated with an investment in our securities.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

PART I

Item 1.

Business.

The
Estée Lauder Companies Inc., founded in 1946 by Estée and Joseph Lauder, is one
of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care,
makeup, fragrance and hair care products. 
Our products are sold in over 140 countries and territories under a number
of well-known brand names including: Estée Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Origins, M

ž

A

ž

C, Bobbi Brown,
La Mer and Aveda.  We are also the global
licensee for fragrances and/or cosmetics sold under brand names such as Tommy
Hilfiger, Donna Karan, Michael Kors, and Sean John.  Each brand is distinctly positioned within
the market for cosmetics and other beauty products.

We
are a pioneer in the cosmetics industry and believe we are a leader in the
industry due to the global recognition of our brand names, our leadership in
product innovation, our strong market position in key geographic markets and
the consistently high quality of our products. 
We sell our prestige products principally through limited distribution
channels to complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels, encompassing over 30,000
points of sale, consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty
retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and spas.  In addition, our products are sold in freestanding
company-owned stores and spas, our own and authorized retailer websites, stores
on cruise ships, direct response television (“DRTV”), in-flight and duty-free
shops and certain fragrances are sold in self-select outlets.  We believe that our strategy of pursuing
limited distribution strengthens our relationships with retailers, enables our
brands to be among the best selling product lines at the stores and heightens
the aspirational quality of our brands.

For
a discussion of recent developments, see “

Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

— Results of Operations — Overview.”

We
have been controlled by the Lauder family since the founding of our
company.  Members of the Lauder family,
some of whom are directors, executive officers and/or employees, beneficially
own, directly or indirectly, as of August 14, 2009, shares of Class A
Common Stock and Class B Common Stock having approximately 87.6% of the
outstanding voting power of the Common Stock.

Unless
the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our” and the
“Company” refer to The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Products

Skin Care

- Our broad range of skin care products addresses
various skin care needs for women and men. 
These products include moisturizers, creams, lotions, cleansers, sun
screens and self-tanning products, a number of which are developed for use on
particular areas of the body, such as the face or the hands or around the
eyes.  Skin care products accounted for
approximately 39% of our net sales in fiscal 2009.

Makeup

- We manufacture, market and sell a full array of
makeup products, including lipsticks, lip glosses, mascaras, foundations,
eyeshadows, nail polishes and powders. 
Many of the products are offered in an extensive array of shades and
colors.  We also sell related items such
as compacts, brushes and other makeup tools. 
Makeup products accounted for approximately 39% of our net sales in
fiscal 2009.

Fragrance

- We offer a variety of fragrance products for
women and men.  The fragrances are sold
in various forms, including eau de parfum sprays and colognes, as well as
lotions, powders, creams and soaps that are based on a particular fragrance.  Fragrance products accounted for approximately
16% of our net sales in fiscal 2009.


Table of
Contents

Hair Care

- Hair care products are offered mainly in salons
and in freestanding retail stores and include hair color and styling products,
shampoos, conditioners and finishing sprays. 
In fiscal 2009, hair care products accounted for approximately 6% of our
net sales.

Given
the personal nature of our products and the wide array of consumer preferences
and tastes, as well as competition for the attention of consumers, our strategy
has been to market and promote our products through distinctive brands seeking
to address broad preferences and tastes. 
Each brand has a single global image that is promoted with consistent
logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image and
differentiate it from other brands.

Estée Lauder

- Estée Lauder brand products, which have been sold
since 1946, are technologically advanced and high performance products with a
reputation for innovation, sophistication, and superior quality.  The broad product line principally consists
of skin care, makeup and fragrance products that are presented in high quality
packaging.

Aramis and Designer Fragrances

- Our Aramis and Designer
Fragrances division creates and markets fragrance and skin care products,
including the following brand names:

·

Aramis

- We pioneered the marketing
of prestige men’s fragrance, grooming and skin care products with the
introduction of Aramis products in 1964.

·

Lab Series

- Lab Series Skincare
for Men, introduced by the Aramis and Designer Fragrances division in 1987,
offers a full range of products for cleansing, shaving, treatment and body that
are especially formulated to answer the unique needs of men’s skin.

·

Tommy Hilfiger

- We have an exclusive
global license arrangement to develop and market a line of men’s and women’s
fragrances and cosmetics under the Tommy Hilfiger brand name.  We launched the line in 1995 with a men’s
fragrance,

tommy

. 
Today, we manufacture and sell a variety of fragrances and ancillary
products for men and women.

·

Donna Karan Cosmetics

-

In November 1997, we obtained the exclusive global
license to develop, market and distribute a line of fragrances and other
cosmetics under the Donna Karan New York and DKNY brand names, including
certain products that were originally sold by The Donna Karan Company.  We launched the first DKNY women’s fragrance
in fiscal 2000 and the first DKNY men’s fragrance in fiscal 2001.  Under this license, fragrances have been
expanded to include extensive lines of companion bath and body products.

·

Michael Kors

- In May 2003, we
entered into a license agreement for fragrances and beauty products under the
Michael Kors brand name.  The fragrances,
as well as ancillary bath and body products, are sold primarily in department
stores, specialty stores and freestanding Michael Kors boutiques.

·

Sean John Fragrances

- In 2005, we
entered into an exclusive license agreement to develop fragrances and other
beauty products under the Sean John brand name. 
Sean “Diddy” Combs played an active role in creating the signature
scent, “Unforgivable.”  The Unforgivable
fragrance, as well as other fragrances and ancillary products, are primarily
available at select department and specialty stores as well as travel retail
outlets around the world.

·

Missoni

- In 2006, we launched
fragrance and ancillary products under our exclusive global licensing agreement
with Milan-based fashion house, Missoni. 
Missoni products are sold in select distribution channels worldwide.

In
addition to the foregoing brands, we market and sell Mustang and Kiton products
as a licensee.

Clinique

- First introduced in 1968, Clinique skin care and
makeup products are all allergy tested and 100% fragrance free and have been
designed to address individual skin types and needs.  The products are based on the research and
related expertise of leading dermatologists. 
Clinique skin care products are generally marketed as part of the 3-Step
System: Cleanse, Exfoliate, Moisturize. 
Other Clinique skin care products include de-aging solutions to help prevent,
halt and diminish the visible effects of sun, wind, stress and pollution and
assist in repair to help restore contour, minimize the look of lines and
wrinkles.  Clinique also offers lines of
fragrances.

Prescriptives

- Introduced in 1979 and sold in five
countries, Prescriptives focuses on delivering flawless-looking skin—for all
skins, from lightest to darkest. 
Signature services include the ultra-personalized artistry of Custom
Blend Makeup and complimentary Colorprinting, which leads the customer to her
exact match foundation and customizable color cosmetics.  Prescriptives also features a personalized
skin care regime for all skins.  The
products are visually compelling and of minimalist design with a modern,
innovative image.

Origins

- Origins was introduced in 1990.  It is positioned as a plant-based line of
skin care, makeup and aromatherapy products that combine time-tested botanical
ingredients with modern science to promote total well-being.  Origins sells its products at our
freestanding Origins stores and through stores-within-stores (which are
designed to replicate the Origins store environment within a department store),
at traditional retail counters and in perfumeries.  Origins also has a license agreement to
develop and sell products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil.


Table of
Contents

M

ž

A

ž

C

- M

ž

A

ž

C products
comprise a broad line of color-oriented, professional cosmetics and
professional makeup tools targeting makeup artists and fashion-conscious
consumers.  The products are sold
primarily through a limited number of department and specialty stores and at
freestanding M

ž

A

ž

C stores.  We acquired the companies behind M

ž

A

ž

C in three
stages: in December 1994, March 1997 and February 1998.

Bobbi Brown

- Acquired in October 1995, Bobbi Brown is an
exclusive beauty line developed by celebrated makeup artist Bobbi Brown with a
focus on service and teaching women to be their own makeup artists.  The Bobbi Brown line includes color
cosmetics, skin care, professional makeup brushes and tools, accessories and
fragrances.  Bobbi Brown products are primarily
sold through a limited number of department and specialty stores.

La Mer

- La Mer products primarily consist of moisturizing
creams, lotions, cleansers, toners and other skin care products.  The line, which is available in very limited
distribution in the United States and certain other countries, is an extension
of the initial Crème de la Mer product that we acquired in 1995.

Aveda

- We acquired the Aveda business in December 1997
and have since acquired selected Aveda distributors and retail stores.  Aveda, a prestige hair care leader, is a
manufacturer and marketer of plant-based hair care, skin care, makeup and
fragrance products.  We sell Aveda
products to third-party distributors and prestige salons and spas, cosmetology
schools, certain non-U.S. department stores and specialty retailers and
directly to consumers at our own freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and
certain Aveda Institutes.

Jo Malone

- We acquired London-based Jo Malone Limited in October 1999.  Jo Malone is known for its unique fragrance portfolio
and luxury products for the bath, body and home.  Products are also available through a company
catalogue, at freestanding stores and at a very limited group of specialty
stores, primarily in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.

Bumble and bumble

- In September 2006, we acquired the
remaining minority equity interest in Bumble and bumble.  We acquired a controlling majority equity
interest in June 2000.  Bumble and
bumble is a New York-based hair care and education company with two salons that
creates high-quality hair care and styling products distributed through other
top-tier salons and select prestige retailers. 
We also provide business and design education to the Bumble and bumble
network of independent salons.

Darphin

- In April 2003, we acquired Laboratoires
Darphin, the Paris-based company dedicated to the development, manufacture and
marketing of prestige skin care and makeup products which are distributed
primarily through high-end independent pharmacies and specialty stores.

BeautyBank

- BeautyBank is our entrepreneurial think tank division
whose mission is to develop brands and products for consumers shopping outside
of the traditional department store channel on a worldwide basis.  Brands developed under the BeautyBank
umbrella include:

·

American Beauty

- Launched in
2004, the luxurious fragrance, makeup and advanced skin care line celebrates
the beauty of American style.  These
products, which are sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and
Kohls.com, have been developed to meet the needs of the modern American woman,
with a straightforward makeup and skin care appeal.

·

Flirt!

-

Launched
in 2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and
Kohls.com, this makeup line is all about experimenting with color, pop culture
and trends; “you can Flirt! with the possibilities.”

·

Good Skin™

-

Launched
in 2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and
Kohls.com, this line of skin care products was created with the expertise of a
dermatologist.

This line is color-coded for ease of use.  Select products of this brand are now
available in a number of countries around the world.

good skin, easy to choose,
easy to use, doctor formulated for you

.™

·

grassroots research labs -

Introduced in March 2008,
grassroots research labs uses natural ingredients that are effective, potent
and offer the latest in skin care technology.

·

Daisy Fuentes

- In early fiscal 2007, we
launched Dianoche, the first fragrance under our license agreement with Daisy
Fuentes, which holds two scents that connect in a single bottle.  Dianoche, as well as other fragrances and
ancillary products, are available exclusively at Kohl’s Department Stores and
at Kohls.com.

Tom Ford

- In 2006, we entered into a license agreement to
develop fragrances and other beauty products under the Tom Ford brand
name.  In fiscal 2007, we introduced Tom
Ford Black Orchid, his first signature fragrance.

Ojon

- In 2007, we acquired Ojon Corporation, a company
based in Canada which markets naturally-derived, wildcrafted hair and skin care
beauty products using ingredients found in the world’s rainforests.

Our
heritage brands are Estée Lauder, Aramis and Designer Fragrances, Clinique,
Prescriptives and Origins.  M

ž

A

ž

C and Bobbi
Brown are our makeup artist brands.


Table of
Contents

Distribution

We
sell our products principally through limited distribution channels to
complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels include more than 30,000
points of sale in over 140 countries and territories and consist primarily of
upscale department stores, specialty retailers, upscale perfumeries and
pharmacies and prestige salons and spas. 
In addition, our products are sold in freestanding company-owned stores
and spas, our own and authorized retailer websites, stores on cruise ships,
DRTV, in-flight and duty-free shops and certain fragrances are sold in
self-select outlets.

We
maintain a dedicated sales force which sells to our retail accounts in North
America and in the major overseas markets, such as Western Europe and
Japan.  We have wholly-owned operations
in over 40 countries, and controlling interests in joint ventures that operate
in four other countries, through which we market, sell and distribute our
products.  In certain countries, we sell
our products through selected local distributors under contractual arrangements
designed to protect the image and position of the brands.  In addition, we sell certain products in
select domestic and international military locations.  For
information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region,
see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

We
sell Aveda products principally to independent salons and spas, cosmetology
schools, third-party distributors and specialty retailers and directly to
consumers at our own freestanding Aveda Experience Centers and certain Aveda
Institutes.  There are currently about
7,300 points of sale, primarily in the United States, that sell Aveda
products.  Bumble and bumble products are
principally sold to about 2,400 independent salons, primarily in the United
States.  Darphin products are principally
sold through high-end independent pharmacies, principally in Europe,
representing approximately 3,700 points of sale.

As
part of our strategy to diversify our distribution, we have been selectively
opening new single-brand, freestanding stores that we operate.  The Origins, Aveda and M

ž

A

ž

C brands are
the primary focus for this method of distribution.  At this time, we operate 601 single-brand,
freestanding stores worldwide, the majority of which are in the United States,
and expect that number to increase moderately over the next several years.  We also operate 97 multi-brand stores.

We
sell American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™ and Daisy Fuentes in approximately
1,000 Kohl’s Department Stores in the United States.

We
currently sell products from 16 of our brands directly to consumers over the
Internet through our own e-commerce sites. 
Some or all of these brands are sold over the Internet in the following
countries: the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Australia,
Korea and China.

As
is customary in the cosmetics industry, our practice is to accept returns of
our products from retailers if properly requested, authorized and
approved.  In accepting returns, we
typically provide a credit to the retailer against sales and accounts
receivable from that retailer on a dollar-for-dollar basis.  In recognition of this practice, and in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we report
revenues on a net sales basis, which reflects the amount of actual returns
received and an amount established for anticipated returns.  As a percentage of gross sales, returns were
4.4%, 4.4% and 4.2% in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Customers

Our
strategy is to build strong relationships with selected retailers
globally.  Senior management works with
executives of our major retail accounts on a regular basis and we believe we
are viewed as an important supplier to these customers.  Our largest customer, Macy’s Inc., sells
products primarily within the United States and accounted for 12%, 12% and 14%
of our consolidated net sales for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively, and 11% of our accounts receivable as of June 30, 2009
and 2008.

Marketing

Our
marketing strategy is built around our mission statement: “Bringing the Best to
Everyone We Touch.”  Mrs. Estée
Lauder formulated this marketing philosophy to provide high-quality service and
products as the foundation for a solid and loyal consumer base.


Table of
Contents

Our
marketing efforts focus principally on promoting the quality, value and
benefits of our products.  Each of our
brands is distinctively positioned, has a single global image, and is promoted
with consistent logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image
and differentiate it from other brands. 
We regularly advertise our products on television and radio, in upscale
magazines and newspapers, the Internet, and through direct mail and photo
displays at international airports.  In
addition, our products receive extensive editorial coverage in prestige
publications and other media worldwide. 
Promotional activities and in-store displays are designed to introduce
existing consumers to different products in the line and to attract new
consumers.  Our marketing efforts also
benefit from cooperative advertising programs with retailers, some of which are
supported by coordinated promotions, such as purchase with purchase and gift
with purchase.  Our marketing and sales
executives spend considerable time in the field meeting with consumers and key
retailers and consulting with demonstrators at the points of sale.  These include Estée Lauder Beauty Advisors,
Clinique Consultants, Aramis Selling Specialists, Prescriptives Analysts,
Origins Guides and M

ž

A

ž

C Makeup
Artists.  At in-store counters, demonstrators
offer personal demonstrations to market individual products as well as to
provide education on basic skin care and makeup application.  We conduct extensive sampling programs and we
pioneered gift with purchase as a sampling program.  We believe that the quality and perceived
benefits of sample products have been effective inducements to purchases by new
and existing consumers.

We
use the Internet to educate and inform consumers about certain of our
brands.  Currently, 19 of our brands have
marketing sites, 16 of which have e-commerce capabilities.

Most
of our creative marketing work is done by in-house creative teams.  The creative staff designs and produces the
sales materials, advertisements and packaging for products in each brand.

Global
net expenses for advertising, merchandising, sampling and promotion were
$1,878.8 million, $2,034.6 million and $1,841.9 million in fiscal 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively.  These amounts
include activities relating to purchase with purchase and gift with purchase
promotions that are reflected in net sales and cost of sales.

Information
Systems

Information
systems support business processes including product development, marketing,
sales, order processing, production, distribution and finance.  Of the many systems currently being utilized,
the most significant to our business needs are: (i) a centralized data
repository of essential attributes for each of the products we offer, or plan
to offer, which enables us to globally manufacture and market products of
consistent quality; (ii) a sales analysis system to track weekly sales at
the stock keeping unit (SKU) level at most significant retail sales locations
(i.e., sell-through data), increasing our understanding of consumer preferences
and enabling us to coordinate more effectively our product development,
manufacturing and marketing strategies; (iii) an automated replenishment
system with many of our key domestic customers, allowing us to replenish
inventories for individual points of sale automatically, with minimal
paperwork; and (iv) an inventory management system to provide us with a
global view of finished goods availability relative to actual requirements.

We
expect that these systems will continue to provide pertinent inventory and
sales data in the short term.  However,
as part of our long-term effort to enhance these systems and increase
productivity, we are implementing our Strategic Modernization Initiative
(“SMI”), which includes an enterprise-wide global program that we expect will
deliver a single set of integrated data, processes and technologies, which
would be scalable and used to standardize business processes across brands,
operating units and sales affiliates.  As
part of SMI, we anticipate the continued migration of our operations to SAP,
with the majority of our locations being implemented through fiscal 2012.

Research
and Development

We believe that we are an industry leader in the development of new
products.  Marketing, product development and packaging groups work with
our research and development group to identify shifts in consumer preferences,
develop new products and improve, redesign or reformulate existing
products.  In addition, research and development personnel work closely
with quality assurance and manufacturing personnel on a worldwide basis to
provide ongoing technical assistance and know-how, to ensure consistent global
standards for our products and to deliver products with attributes that fulfill
consumer expectations.  The research and
development group has long-standing working relationships with several U.S. and
international medical and educational facilities, which supplement internal
capabilities.  Members of the group are also responsible for regulatory
compliance matters.

We do not conduct animal testing on our products or ingredients, nor
ask others to test on our behalf, except when required by law.  We evaluate our finished products in clinical
tests on volunteer panels.

We maintain ongoing research and development programs at our facilities
in Melville, New York; Oevel, Belgium; Petersfield, United Kingdom; Tokyo,
Japan; Markham, Ontario; Blaine, Minnesota; Shanghai, China; and Colombes,
France.  As of June 30, 2009, we had approximately 435 employees
engaged in research and development.  Research and development
expenditures totaled $81.6 million, $80.9 million and $74.4 million in
fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



Manufacturing,
Warehousing and Raw Materials

We
manufacture skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products primarily in
the United States, Belgium, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada.  We continue to streamline our manufacturing
processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve innovation, increase
efficiencies and reduce costs.  Our major
manufacturing facilities operate as “focus” plants that primarily manufacture
one type of product (e.g., lipsticks) for all of the principal brands.  Our plants are modern and our manufacturing
processes are substantially automated. 
While we believe that our manufacturing facilities are sufficient to
meet current and reasonably anticipated manufacturing requirements, we continue
to identify opportunities to make significant improvements in capacity and
productivity.  To capitalize on
innovation and other supply benefits, we continue to utilize third parties on a
global basis for finished goods production, including an increased percentage
of volume in Asia/Pacific to support our growth.

We
have established a global distribution network designed to meet the changing
demands of our customers while maintaining service levels.  We are continuously evaluating and
restructuring this physical distribution network.  We have begun to establish regional inventory
centers strategically positioned throughout the world in order to facilitate
efficient delivery of our products to our customers.

The
principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are essential
oils, alcohol and specialty chemicals. 
We also purchase packaging components that are manufactured to our
design specifications.  Procurement of
materials for all manufacturing facilities is generally made on a global basis
through our Global Supplier Relations department.  We are making a concentrated effort in
supplier rationalization with the specific objective of reducing costs,
increasing innovation and speed to market and improving quality.  In addition, we continue to focus on supply
sourcing within the region of manufacture to allow for improved supply chain
efficiencies.  As a result of sourcing
initiatives, there is increased dependency on certain suppliers, but we believe
that our portfolio of these suppliers has adequate resources and facilities to
overcome any unforeseen interruption of supply. 
In the past, we have been able to obtain an adequate supply of essential
raw materials and currently believe we have adequate sources of supply for
virtually all components of our products.

We
are continually benchmarking the performance of the supply chain and will add
or delete suppliers, and adjust our distribution networks and manufacturing
footprint based upon the changing needs of the business.  As we integrate acquired brands, we
continually seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities
to improve our overall supply chain performance.

Competition

The skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair
care businesses are characterized by vigorous competition throughout the
world.  Brand recognition, quality,
performance and price have a significant impact on consumers’ choices among
competing products and brands. 
Advertising, promotion, merchandising, the pace and timing of new
product introductions, line extensions and the quality of in-store
demonstrations also have a significant impact on consumers’ buying
decisions.  With our numerous brands,
sold in various channels, we are one of the world’s leading manufacturers and
marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  We compete against a number of companies,
some of which have substantially greater resources than we do.

Our
principal competitors consist of

large, well-known, multinational manufacturers and
marketers of

skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products,
most of which market and sell their products under multiple brand names.  They include, among others, L’Oreal S.A.;
Shiseido Company, Ltd.; LVMH Moët Hennessey Louis Vuitton; Coty, Inc.; and
The Procter & Gamble Company.

We also face
competition from a number of independent brands, as well as some retailers that
have developed their own beauty brands. 
Certain of our competitors also have ownership interests in retailers
that are customers of ours.

Trademarks,
Patents and Copyrights

The
trademarks used in our business include the brand names Estée Lauder, Clinique,
Aramis, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, DKNY,
M

ž

A

ž

C, Bobbi Brown,
La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Michael Kors, American
Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™, grassroots research labs, Ojon and the names of
many of the products sold under these brands. 
We own the material trademark rights used in connection with the
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of most of our major products both in
the United States and in the other principal countries where such products are
sold.  We are the exclusive worldwide
licensee for fragrances, cosmetics and/or related products for Tommy Hilfiger,
Donna Karan New York, DKNY, Kiton, Michael Kors, Sean John, Missoni, Daisy
Fuentes and Tom Ford.  Origins sells
products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil and Aramis and Designer
Fragrances sells a fragrance in the Americas region using the name Mustang, in
each case pursuant to a license agreement. 
We protect our trademarks for our principal products in the United
States and significant markets worldwide. 
We consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our
business.

A
number of our products incorporate patented, patent-pending or proprietary
technology in formulations or packaging. 
In addition, several products are covered by design patents, patent
applications or copyrights.  While we
consider these patents and copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be
important, no single patent or copyright is considered material to the conduct
of our business.


Table of
Contents

Employees

At
June 30, 2009, we had approximately 31,300 full-time employees worldwide
(including certain demonstrators at points of sale who are employed by us), of
whom approximately 12,700 are employed in the United States and Canada.  None of our employees in the United States is
covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 
In certain other countries, a limited number of employees are covered by
a works council agreement or other syndicate arrangements.  We believe that relations with our employees
are good.  We have never encountered a
material strike or work stoppage in the United States or in any other
country where we have a significant number of employees.

Government
Regulation

We
and our products are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration
and the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, as well as by various
other Federal, state, local and international regulatory authorities and the
regulatory authorities in the countries in which our products are produced or
sold.  Such regulations principally
relate to the ingredients, labeling, packaging and marketing of our
products.  We believe that we are in
substantial compliance with such regulations, as well as with applicable
Federal, state, local and international and other countries’ rules and
regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the
environment.  There are no significant
capital expenditures for environmental control matters either planned in the
current year or expected in the near future. 
Along with other unrelated parties, we have been named as a potentially
responsible party by the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New
York with regard to a landfill in Long Island, New York.  See “

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

.”

Seasonality

Our
results of operations in total, by region and by product category, are subject
to seasonal fluctuations, with net sales in the first half of the fiscal year
typically being slightly higher than in the second half of the fiscal
year.  The higher net sales in the first
half of the fiscal year are attributable to the increased levels of purchasing
by retailers for the holiday selling season and for fall fashion makeup
introductions.  Many of our customers
that are retailers follow a 4-4-5 retail calendar which may influence the
amount and timing of their order placement and receipt of goods in any fiscal
quarter.  In a traditional 4-4-5 retail
calendar, each fiscal quarter is comprised of two 4-week periods and one 5-week
period, with one extra week in one quarter every seven years.  As a result, the retail quarter-end and the
fiscal quarter-end may be different by up to six days.  Fluctuations in net sales and operating
income in total and by geographic region and product category in any fiscal
quarter may be attributable to the level and scope of new product
introductions.  Additionally, gross
margins and operating expenses are impacted on a quarter-by-quarter basis by
variations in our launch calendar and the timing of promotions, including
purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.

Availability
of Reports

We
make available financial information, news releases and other information on
our website at www.elcompanies.com. 
There is a direct link from the website to our Securities and Exchange
Commission filings via the EDGAR database, where our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge
as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports and amendments
with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Stockholders may also contact Investor
Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to
obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.

Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct

The
Board of Directors has developed corporate governance practices to help it
fulfill its responsibilities to stockholders in providing general direction and
oversight of management.  These practices are set forth in our Corporate
Governance Guidelines.  We also have a Code of Conduct (“Code”) applicable
to all employees, officers and directors of the Company, including, without
limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other
senior financial officers.  These documents, the charters for the Audit
Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Board Affairs Committee,
and any waiver of a provision of the Code granted to any senior officer or
director or material amendment to the Code, if any, may be found in the
“Investors” section of our website: www.elcompanies.com under the heading
“Corporate Governance.”  Stockholders may
also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153
or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these documents without charge.


Table of
Contents

Executive
Officers

The
following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive
officers:

John Demsey

was appointed Group
President in July 2006.  In this role, he is currently responsible
for the Estée Lauder, M·A·C, Sean John, Prescriptives, Tom Ford Beauty, Bobbi
Brown, Jo Malone and La Mer brands.  In January 2005, Mr. Demsey
became Global Brand President of Estée Lauder after serving as President and
Managing Director of M·A·C since 1998.  From 1991 to 1998, he held several
positions with Estée Lauder, including Senior Vice President of Sales and
Education for Estée Lauder USA and Canada.  Before joining us, he worked
for Revlon, Borghese, Alexandra de Markoff Cosmetics, and Lancaster
Cosmetics.  He also held various executive retail positions at
Bloomingdale’s, Macy’s, Benetton and Saks Fifth Avenue.  Mr. Demsey
serves as Chairman of the M·A·C AIDS Fund and is active in many other AIDS-related
organizations.

Amy DiGeso

became Executive Vice
President - Global Human Resources in May 2006.  From May 2005,
when she joined us, to May 2006 she was Senior Vice President - Global
Human Resources.  She was Senior Partner - Global Human Resource in charge
of the Human Resources Department at PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP from May 2001
through June 2003.  From April 1999 through April 2001, Ms. DiGeso
was President of the Popular Club Plan, a direct sales subsidiary of Federated
Department Stores, and from May 1992 through December 1998, she
served in various executive capacities at Mary Kay, Inc., including Chief
Executive Officer from November 1996 through December 1998. 
Since June 2003, Ms. DiGeso has been engaged in various philanthropic
activities.

Fabrizio Freda

is President and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company.  From March 2008
through June 2009, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company where he was instrumental in designing the Company’s long-term
strategic plan and oversaw Clinique, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Jo Malone, Aveda,
Bumble and bumble and the Aramis and Designer Fragrances Division.  He also was responsible for the Company’s
International Division, as well as Global Operations, Research and Development,
Packaging, Quality Assurance, Merchandise Design, Corporate Store Design and
Retail Store Operations.  Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Freda served in a number of positions of
increasing responsibility at The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”),
where he was responsible for various operating, marketing and key strategic
efforts for over 20 years.  From 2001
through 2007 Mr. Freda was President, Global Snacks, at P&G. Mr. Freda
also spent more than a decade in the Health and Beauty Care division at
P&G.  From 1986 to 1988 he directed
marketing and strategic planning for Gucci SpA.

Harvey Gedeon

became Executive Vice
President - Research and Development in July 2004 and added
responsibilities for Corporate Product Innovation in 2007 and Package
Development in 2008.  From January 2000 to July 2004, he was
Senior Vice President - Research and Development.  Prior to joining us in January 2000,
Mr. Gedeon was Executive Vice President and General Manager, Research and
Development and Quality Assurance for Revlon, Inc. from 1997 through 1999.

Richard W. Kunes

became Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2004.  Prior
thereto, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2000. 
He joined us in 1986 and served in various finance-related positions until November 1993,
when he was named Vice President — Operations Finance Worldwide.  From January 1998
through September 2000, Mr. Kunes was Vice President — Financial
Administration and Corporate Controller.  Prior to joining us, he held
finance and controller positions at the Colgate-Palmolive Company.

Evelyn H. Lauder

has been Senior Corporate
Vice President since 1989, and previously served as Vice President and in other
executive capacities since first joining us in 1959 as Education
Director.  She is a member of the Board of Overseers of Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, a member of the Boards of Trustees of Central
Park Conservancy, Inc., The Trinity School in New York City (Trustee
Emirata), a member of the Board of Directors of New Yorkers for Parks, an
Honorary Board Member of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories and the Founder and
Chairman of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation.


Table of
Contents

Leonard A. Lauder

is Chairman Emeritus and a member of the
Board of Directors.  He was Chairman of
the Board of Directors from 1995 through June 2009 and served as our Chief
Executive Officer from 1982 through 1999 and President from 1972 until
1995.  Mr. Lauder formally joined us
in 1958 after serving as an officer in the United States Navy.  Since joining, he has held various positions,
including executive officer positions other than those described above.  He is Chairman Emeritus of the Board of
Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee of the
University of Pennsylvania, a Trustee of The Aspen Institute and the co-founder
and director of the Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation.  He also served as a member of the White House
Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.

Ronald S. Lauder

has served as Chairman of Clinique
Laboratories, LLC since returning from government service in 1987 and was
Chairman of Estee Lauder International, Inc. from 1987 through 2002.

He was a member of
the Board of Directors of the Company from 1968 to 1986 and again from 1988 to July 2009.  Mr. Lauder joined the Company in 1964 and
has served in various capacities.  From
1983 to 1986, Mr. Lauder served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
for European and NATO Affairs.  From 1986
to 1987, he was U.S. Ambassador to Austria. 
He is non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Central
European Media Enterprises Ltd.  He is
also an Honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Museum of Modern Art
and President of the Neue Galerie.

William P. Lauder

is Executive Chairman and, in such role, he
is Chairman of the Board of Directors. 
He was Chief Executive Officer of the Company from March 2008
through June 2009 and President and Chief Executive Officer from July 2004
through February 2008.  From January 2003
through June 2004, he was Chief Operating Officer.  From July 2001 through 2002, he was
Group President responsible for the worldwide business of Clinique and Origins
and the Company’s retail store and on-line operations.  From 1998 to 2001, he was President of
Clinique Laboratories, LLC.  Prior to
1998, he was President of Origins Natural Resources Inc., and he had been the
senior officer of that division since its inception in 1990.  Prior thereto, he served in various positions
since joining the Company in 1986.  He is
a member of the Boards of Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania and The
Trinity School in New York City and the Boards of Directors of the Fresh Air
Fund, the 92

nd

Street Y, the Partnership for New York City,
GLG Partners Inc. and the Advisory Board of Zelnick Media.

Sara E. Moss

is Executive Vice President
and General Counsel.  She became
Executive Vice President in November 2004.  She joined us as Senior
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in September 2003.  She
was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes Inc. from 1996 to
February 2003, and Senior Litigation Partner for Howard, Smith &
Levin (now Covington & Burling) in New York from 1984 to 1996. 
Prior to 1984, Ms. Moss served as an Assistant United States Attorney in
the Criminal Division in the Southern District of New York, was an associate at
the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardwell and was Law Clerk to the
Honorable Constance Baker Motley, a U.S. District Judge in the Southern
District of New York.

Gregory F. Polcer

became Executive Vice President - Global
Supply Chain in July 2008.  He is responsible for Global Direct and
Indirect Procurement, Manufacturing, Logistics, Quality Assurance and
Environmental Affairs and Safety.  From 1988 to 2008, he worked for
Unilever where he designed and implemented global, regional and local
initiatives.  Most recently, from 2006 to 2008, he served as the Senior
Vice President, Supply Chain for Unilever where he integrated the North and
Latin American Supply Chains, provided senior leadership for all global supply
management and established a global outsourcing plan.  He served as Senior
Vice President, Supply Chain - North America from 2005 to 2006 and Senior Vice
President, Supply Chain, Home and Personal Care — North America from 2002 to
2004.

Cedric Prouvé

became Group President - International in January 2003. 
He is responsible for sales and profits in our International Division, which
includes all markets outside of North America, our Travel Retail business
worldwide and all of the activities of our sales affiliates and distributor
relationships.  From August 2000 through December 2002 he was
the General Manager of our Japanese sales affiliate.  From January 1997
to August 2000, he was Vice President, General Manager, Travel
Retail.  He started with us in 1994 as General Manager, Travel Retailing -
Asia Pacific Region and was given the added responsibility of General Manager
of our Singapore affiliate in 1995.  Prior to joining us he worked at
L’Oreal in sales and management positions in the Americas and Asia/Pacific.

Alexandra C. Trower

became Executive Vice
President - Global Communications in April 2008.  She directs the Company’s overall
communications strategy, oversees brand communications, corporate
communications, internal communications and consumer communications.  Before joining us, Ms. Trower was Senior
Vice President, Media Relations for Bank of America from January 2004 to March 2008.  From 1997 to 2002, she worked at JPMorgan
Chase, where she was responsible for corporate communications at JPMorgan
Fleming Asset Management.

Each
executive officer serves for a one-year term ending at the next annual meeting
of the Board of Directors, subject to his or her applicable employment
agreement and his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.


Table of
Contents

Item 1A.

Risk
Factors.

There
are risks associated with an investment in our securities.

Please
consider the following risks and all of the other information in this annual
report on Form 10-K and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Our
business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not
presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial.  If any of the events contemplated by the
following discussion of risks should occur or other risks arise or develop, our
business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, as well as
the trading prices of our securities, may be adversely affected.

The beauty business is highly competitive,
and if we are unable to compete effectively our results will suffer.

We
face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including
multinational consumer product companies.  Some of these competitors have
greater resources than we do and may be able to respond to changing business
and economic conditions more quickly than us.  Competition in the beauty
business is based on pricing of products, innovation, perceived value, service
to the consumer, promotional activities, advertising, special events, new
product introductions, electronic commerce initiatives and other
activities.  It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our
competitors’ actions in these areas.  In particular, the fragrance
category in the United States is influenced by the high volume of new product
introductions by diverse companies across several different distribution
channels.  Also, the trend toward
consolidation in the retail trade, particularly in developed markets such as
the United States and Western Europe, has resulted in us becoming increasingly
dependent on key retailers, including large-format retailers, who have
increased their bargaining strength. 
This trend has also resulted in an increased risk related to the
concentration of our customers.  A severe
adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material
adverse effect on us.  Our ability to compete also depends on the
continued strength of our brands, our ability to attract and retain key talent
and other personnel, the efficiency of our manufacturing facilities and
distribution network, and our ability to protect our intellectual
property.  Our inability to continue to compete effectively in countries
around the world could have an adverse impact on our business.

Our inability to anticipate and respond to
market trends and changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our
financial results.

Our
continued success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a
timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer tastes for skin care,
makeup, fragrance and hair care products as well as to where and how consumers
shop for those products.  We must continually work to develop, produce and
market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands,
achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and
where we market and sell our products.  While we devote considerable effort
and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, we
recognize that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can
change rapidly.  If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in
the market for our products and changing consumer demands, our financial
results will suffer.

Our future success depends on our ability to achieve our long-term
strategy.

Our vision is to be the global leader in prestige beauty.  To achieve our goal, we are implementing a long-term strategy to guide the Company through fiscal 2013.  The plan has numerous initiatives across regions, product categories, brands and functions that are designed to leverage our strengths, make us more cost efficient and grow our sales.

Achieving
our long-term objectives will require investment in new capabilities, brands,
categories, distribution channels, technologies and geographic markets.  These investments may result in short-term
costs without any current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our
earnings, at least in the short term.  In
addition, we may dispose of or discontinue select brands or streamline
operations and incur costs or special charges in doing so.  Although we believe that our strategy will
lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, we may not realize, in
full or in part, the anticipated benefits. 
The failure to realize benefits, which may be due to our ability to
execute plans or other risks described herein, global economic conditions, competition,
changes in the beauty industry and the other risks described herein, could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.


Table of
Contents

Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks.

We continuously review acquisition opportunities that would expand our
current product offerings, our distribution channels, increase the size and
geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating
efficiency opportunities.  If required,
the financing for any of these acquisitions could result in an increase in our
indebtedness, dilute the interests of our stockholders or both.  Acquisitions may entail numerous risks,
including:

·

difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or
products, including the loss of key employees from or customers of acquired
businesses;

·

diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses;

·

adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and
customers; and

·

risks of entering distribution channels, categories or markets in which
we have limited or no prior experience.

Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired
business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and operating results.  In
addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable
acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms.

We are required to
annually test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives to determine
if impairment has occurred.  If the
testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to
record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying
value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of
the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is
made.  We cannot accurately predict the
amount and timing of any impairment of assets. 
Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired,
there will be an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.

A general economic
downturn or sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer
purchases of discretionary items and/or the financial strength of our customers
that are retailers, which could adversely affect our financial results.

The general level
of consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including general
economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, and consumer
confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control.  Consumer
purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods,
when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products.  A
decline in consumer purchases of discretionary items also tends to impact our
customers that are retailers.  We
generally extend credit to a retailer based on an evaluation of its financial
condition, usually without requiring collateral.  However, the financial difficulties of a
retailer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that
customer.  We may also assume more credit
risk relating to the receivables from that retailer.  Our inability to collect the receivable from
one of our largest customers or from a group of customers could have a material
adverse effect on our business and our financial condition.  If a retailer was to liquidate, we may incur
additional costs if we choose to purchase the retailer’s inventory of our
products to protect brand equity.

In addition, sudden disruptions in business
conditions, for example, as a consequence of events such as a pandemic or those
that are currently taking place in the Middle East, or as a result of a
terrorist attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation,
or as a result of adverse weather conditions or climate changes, can have a
short and, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending.

Events that impact consumers’ willingness or ability
to travel and/or purchase our products while traveling may impact our travel
retail business, which is a significant contributor to our overall results.

A
downturn in the economies in which we sell our products or a sudden disruption
of business conditions in those economies could adversely affect our sales and
profitability.

We
face risks associated with the current global credit crisis.

The volatility in
the financial markets and the related economic downturn in markets throughout
the world could continue to have a material adverse effect on our
business.  While we currently generate
significant cash flows from our ongoing operations and have access to global
credit markets through our various financing activities, credit markets have
recently experienced significant disruptions and certain leading financial
institutions have either declared bankruptcy or have shown significant
deterioration in their financial stability. 
Further deterioration in global financial markets could make future
financing difficult or more expensive. 
If any financial institutions that are parties to our undrawn revolving
credit facility supporting our commercial paper program or other financing
arrangements, such as interest rate or foreign exchange hedging instruments,
were to declare bankruptcy or become insolvent, they may be unable to perform
under their agreements with us.  This
could leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain
interest rate or foreign currency exposures.


Table of
Contents

Changes in laws, regulations and policies
that affect our business could adversely affect our financial results.

Our
business is subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies.  Changes
in the laws, regulations and policies, including the interpretation or
enforcement thereof, that affect, or will affect, our business, including
changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, trade rules and
customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory
proceedings, and any action we may take as a result could adversely affect our
financial results.

Our success depends, in part, on
the quality and safety of our products.

Our success depends, in part, on the quality and
safety of our products.  If our products
are found to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our
consumers’ standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could
suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we
could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could
result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

Our success depends, in part, on
our key personnel.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain
our key personnel, including our executive officers and senior management
team.  The unexpected loss of one or more
of our key employees could adversely affect our business.  Our success also depends, in part, on our
continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified
personnel.  Competition for these
employees can be intense.  We may not be
able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and
our failure to do so could adversely affect our business.  This risk may be exacerbated by the stresses
associated with the implementation of our strategic plan and other initiatives.

We are subject to risks related
to our international operations.

We
operate on a global basis, with approximately 59% of our fiscal 2009 net sales
generated outside the United States.  We maintain offices in over 40
countries and have key operational facilities located outside the United States
that manufacture, warehouse or distribute goods for sale throughout the
world.  Foreign operations are subject to many risks and uncertainties,
including:

·

fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates, which can affect our results of operations, the value of our foreign
assets,

the relative
prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same markets
and the cost of certain inventory and non-inventory items required in our
operations;

·

changes in foreign laws, regulations and
policies, including restrictions on trade, import and export license
requirements,

and tariffs and taxes, as well as changes in United States laws and
regulations relating to foreign trade and investment; and

·

adverse weather conditions, social,
economic and geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other
military action.

These
risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results
of operations and financial condition.

A disruption in operations could adversely
affect our business and financial results.

As
a company engaged in manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are
subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial
accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions
in supply chain or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing
sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other
regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over
which we have no control.  If such an event were to occur, it could have
an adverse affect on our business and financial results.

Our information systems and websites may be susceptible to outages and
other risks.

We
have information systems that support our business processes, including product
development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution,
finance and intracompany communications throughout the world.  We have e-commerce and other Internet
websites in the United States and many other countries.  These systems may be susceptible to outages
due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and
similar events.  Despite the implementation
of network security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to computer
viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering.  The occurrence of these or other events could
disrupt or damage our information systems and adversely affect our business and
results of operations.


Table of
Contents

We are subject to risks associated with implementing global information
systems.

As
part of a program that we call our “Strategic Modernization Initiative,” or
“SMI,” we are implementing enterprise-wide global programs intended to deliver
a single set of integrated data, processes and technologies, which would be
scalable and used to standardize business processes across brands, operating
units and sales affiliates.  As part of
SMI, we anticipate the continued migration of our operations to SAP, with the
majority of our locations to be implemented through fiscal 2012.  Like most entity-wide changes to software
systems, the implementation of SMI involves risks and uncertainties.  Failure to implement SMI as planned, in terms
of timing, specifications and/or costs, could have an adverse impact on our
business and results of operations.

The trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall
based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial
performance.

Our
business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth
and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal
quarter.  We believe that this
longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders.  At the same time, however, we recognize that
it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our forecast of net
sales and earnings per share. 
Accordingly, when we announced our year-end financial results for fiscal
2009, we provided guidance as to our expected net sales and earnings per share
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 and the quarter ending September 30,
2009.  While we generally expect to
provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter,
we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at
such times or otherwise.  In addition,
the longer-term guidance we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the
time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance
over a number of years.  Such targets are
more speculative than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations.

In
all of our public statements when we make, or update, a forward-looking
statement about our sales and/or earnings expectations or expectations
regarding restructuring or other initiatives, we accompany such statements
directly, or by reference to a public document, with a list of factors that
could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we expect.  Such a list is included, among other places,
in our earnings press release and in our periodic filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (e.g., in our reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q).  These and other factors may make it difficult
for outside observers, such as research analysts, to predict what our earnings
will be in any given fiscal quarter or year.

Outside
analysts and investors have the right to make their own predictions of our
financial results for any future period. 
Outside analysts, however, have access to no more material information
about our plans than any other public investor, and we do not endorse their
predictions as to our future performance. 
Nor do we assume any responsibility to correct the predictions of
outside analysts or others when they differ from our own internal
expectations.  If and when we announce
actual results that differ from those that outside analysts or others have been
predicting, the market price of our securities could be affected.  Investors who rely on the predictions of
outside analysts or others when making investment decisions with respect to our
securities do so at their own risk.  We
take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in
the prices of our securities.

Failure to adequately maintain the security of our electronic and other
confidential information could materially adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations.

We are dependent upon automated information technology processes.  As part of our normal business activities, we
collect and store certain confidential information, including personal
information with respect to customers and employees.  We may share some of this information with
vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business.  Moreover, the success of our e-commerce
operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential and personal
data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments.  Any failure on the part of us or our vendors
to maintain the security of our confidential data and our employees’ and
customers’ personal information, including via the penetration of our network
security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information,
could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial
obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and
private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in
deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us and other
competitive disadvantages, and thus could have a material adverse impact on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a
security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources
to enhance our information security systems and could result in a disruption to
our operations.

As we
outsource more functions, we will become more dependent on the entities
performing those functions.

As part of our
long-term strategy, we are continually looking for opportunities to provide
essential business services in a more cost-effective manner.  In some
cases, this requires the outsourcing of functions or parts of functions that
can be performed more effectively by external service providers.  These
include certain information systems functions such as information technology
operations, and certain human resource functions such as employee benefit plan
administration.  While we believe we conduct appropriate due diligence
before entering into agreements with the outsourcing entity, the failure of one
or more entities to provide the expected services, provide them on a timely
basis or to provide them at the prices we expect may have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations or financial condition.


Table
of Contents

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments.

As
of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved
comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 2.

Properties

.

The
following table sets forth our principal owned and leased manufacturing,
assembly, research and development and distribution facilities as of August 14,
2009.  The leases expire at various times
through 2026 subject to certain renewal options.

We
own, lease and occupy numerous offices, assembly and distribution facilities
and warehouses in the United States and abroad. 
We consider our properties to be generally in good condition and believe
that our facilities are adequate for our operations and provide sufficient
capacity to meet anticipated requirements. 
We lease approximately 280,000 square feet of rentable space for our
principal offices in New York, New York and own an office building of
approximately 57,000 square feet in Melville, New York.  As of August 14, 2009, we operated 698
freestanding retail stores, including 17 for the Estée Lauder brand, 35 for
Clinique, 131 for Origins, 242 for M

ž

A

ž

C, 138 for
Aveda, 9 for Bobbi Brown, 26 for Jo Malone, 2 for Bumble and bumble, 1 for Good
Skin™ and 97 multi-brand stores.


Table of
Contents

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

.

We
are involved, from time to time, in litigation and other legal proceedings
incidental to our business.  Management
believes that the outcome of current litigation and legal proceedings will not
have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations or financial
condition.  However, management’s
assessment of our current litigation and other legal proceedings could change
in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions or other
proceedings pending against us not presently known to us or determinations by
judges, juries or other finders of fact which are not in accord with
management’s evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation
or proceedings.

In
1999, the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York (the “State”)
notified the Company and ten other entities that they had been identified as
potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) with respect to the Blydenburgh
landfill in Islip, New York.  Each PRP
may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and cleanup,
which the State estimated in 2006 to be approximately $19.7 million for all
PRPs.  In 2001, the State sued other PRPs
(including Hickey’s Carting, Inc., Dennis C. Hickey and Maria Hickey,
collectively the “Hickey Parties”), in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of New York to recover such costs in connection with the site, and in September 2002,
the Hickey Parties brought contribution actions against the Company and other
Blydenburgh PRPs.  These contribution
actions seek to recover, among other things, any damages for which the Hickey
Parties are found liable in the State’s lawsuit against them, and related costs
and expenses, including attorneys’ fees. 
In June 2004, the State added the Company and other PRPs as defendants
in its pending case against the Hickey Parties. 
In April 2006, the Company and other defendants added numerous
other parties to the case as third-party defendants.  Settlement negotiations with the new
third-party defendants, the State, the Company and other defendants began in July 2006
and have resulted in a proposed consent decree to resolve the case.  The consent decree requires court approval,
which the parties are seeking.  We have
accrued an amount which we believe would be necessary to resolve our share of
this matter.  If the settlement is not
successfully completed, we intend to vigorously defend the pending claims.  While no assurance can be given as to the
ultimate outcome, management believes that the resolution of the Blydenburgh
matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
condition.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

.

No
matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended June 30,
2009.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Our
Class A Common Stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol “EL.”  The following
table shows the high and low sales prices as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Tape and the cash dividends per share declared in fiscal
2009 and fiscal 2008:

We
expect to continue the payment of cash dividends in the future, but there can
be no assurance that the Board of Directors will continue to declare them.  In November 2008 and 2007, the Board of
Directors declared an annual dividend of $.55, which was paid in December 2008
and 2007, respectively.

As
of August 14, 2009, there were approximately 3,056 record holders of Class A
Common Stock and 21 record holders of Class B Common Stock.


Table of
Contents

Share
Repurchase Program

We are authorized by the
Board of Directors to repurchase up to 88.0 million shares of Class A
Common Stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions,
depending on market conditions and other factors.  As of June 30, 2009, the cumulative
total of acquired shares pursuant to the authorization was 65.3 million,
reducing the remaining authorized share repurchase balance to 22.7
million.  During fiscal 2009, we
purchased approximately 1.2 million shares pursuant to the authorization for
$55.3 million as outlined in the following table:

(1)

The initial program covering the repurchase of 8.0
million shares was announced in September 1998 and increased by 20.0
million shares each in November 2007, February 2007 and May 2005
and 10.0 million shares in both May 2004 and October 2002.

(2)

Includes shares that were repurchased by the Company
in connection with shares withheld to satisfy tax obligations upon the
settlement of performance share units earned as of June 30, 2008.

(3)

Represents shares that were repurchased by the Company
in connection with shares withheld to satisfy tax obligations upon the vesting
of restricted stock units.

Sales
of Unregistered Securities

Shares of Class B Common Stock may be converted immediately into Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis by the holder and are automatically converted into Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis upon transfer to a person or entity that is not a “Permitted Transferee” or soon after a record date for a meeting of stockholders where the outstanding Class B Common Stock constitutes less than 10% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company.  There is no cash or other consideration paid by the holder converting the shares and, accordingly, there is no cash or other consideration received by the Company.  The shares of Class A Common Stock issued by the Company in such conversions are exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to Section 3(a)(9) thereof.

During
the three months ended June 30, 2009, no holders of Class B Common
Stock converted such shares into Class A Common Stock.


Table of
Contents

Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

.

The
table below summarizes selected financial information.  For further information, refer to the audited
consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto beginning on page F-1
of this report.

(a) Fiscal
2009 results included $61.7 million, after tax, or $.31 per diluted share
related to total charges associated with restructuring activities.

(b) Fiscal
2006 results included $93.0 million, after tax, or $.43 per diluted share in
special charges related to our cost savings initiative and tax-related
matters.  Included in the charges was an
operating expense charge of $92.1 million, equal to $.27 per diluted common
share related to the cost savings initiative. 
The results also included a special tax charge related to a settlement
with the Internal Revenue Service regarding an examination of our consolidated
Federal income tax returns for fiscal years 1998 through 2001, and represents
the aggregate earnings impact of the settlement through fiscal 2006.  The settlement resulted in an increase to our
fiscal 2006 income tax provision and a corresponding decrease in fiscal 2006
net earnings of approximately $46 million, or approximately $.21 per diluted
common share.  During the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2006, we completed the repatriation of foreign earnings through
intercompany dividends under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004 (the “AJCA”).  In connection with
the repatriation, we updated the computation of the related aggregate tax
impact, resulting in a favorable adjustment of approximately $11 million, or
approximately $.05 per diluted common share, to our initial tax charge of $35
million recorded in fiscal 2005.  The tax
settlement, coupled with the AJCA favorable tax adjustment, resulted in a net
increase to our fiscal 2006 income tax provision and a corresponding decrease
in fiscal 2006 net earnings of approximately $35 million, or approximately $.16
per diluted common share.

(c) In
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we announced plans to repatriate
approximately $690 million of foreign earnings in fiscal year 2006, which included
$500 million of extraordinary intercompany dividends under the provisions of
the AJCA.  This action resulted in an
aggregate tax charge of approximately $35 million in our fiscal year ended June 30,
2005, which included an incremental tax charge of approximately $28 million,
equal to $.12 per diluted common share.

(d) In
November 2008, we issued and sold $300.0 million of 7.75% Senior Notes due
November 1, 2013 in a public offering. 
We used the net proceeds of this offering to repay then-outstanding commercial
paper balances upon their maturity.

In May 2007, we issued
and sold $300.0 million of 5.55% Senior Notes due May 15, 2017 and $300.0
million of 6.00% Senior Notes, due May 15, 2037 in a public offering.  We used the net proceeds of this offering to
repay long-term commercial paper, which was used to fund our accelerated stock
repurchase program, and to pay transaction fees and expenses related to this
offering.


Table of
Contents

(e) In
April 2006, we completed the sale of certain assets and operations of the
reporting unit that marketed and sold Stila brand products.  As a result, all consolidated statements of
earnings information in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes for
all periods presented have been restated for comparative purposes to reflect
those reporting units as discontinued operations.

(f) During
fiscal 2007, we repurchased 22,461,642 shares of our outstanding common stock,
of which 15,960,842 shares were purchased for $750.0 million through an
accelerated stock repurchase program with a financial counterparty.

Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

.

CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The
discussion and analysis of our financial condition at June 30, 2009 and
our results of operations for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2009
are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in those financial
statements.  These judgments can be
subjective and complex and, consequently, actual results could differ from
those estimates.  Our most critical
accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, inventory, pension and other
post-retirement benefit costs, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible
assets, income taxes and derivatives.

Management
of the Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies
and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of
Directors.

Revenue Recognition

Revenues
from merchandise sales are recognized upon transfer of ownership, including
passage of title to the customer and transfer of the risk of loss related to
those goods.  In the Americas region,
sales are generally recognized at the time the product is shipped to the
customer and in the Europe, Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific
regions sales are generally recognized based upon the customer’s receipt.  In certain circumstances, transfer of title
takes place at the point of sale, for example, at our retail stores.  Sales at our retail stores and online are
recognized in accordance with a traditional 4-4-5 retail calendar, where each
fiscal quarter is comprised of two 4-week periods and one 5-week period, with
one extra week in one quarter every seven years.  As a result, the retail quarter-end and the
fiscal quarter-end may be different by up to six days.

Revenues
are reported on a net sales basis, which is computed by deducting from gross
sales the amount of actual product returns received, discounts, incentive
arrangements with retailers and an amount established for anticipated product
returns.  Our practice is to accept
product returns from retailers only if properly requested, authorized and
approved.  In accepting returns, we
typically provide a credit to the retailer against accounts receivable from
that retailer.  As a percentage of gross
sales, returns were 4.4%, 4.4% and 4.2% in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Our sales return accrual is a subjective critical
estimate that has a direct impact on reported net sales.

This accrual is calculated
based on a history of actual returns, estimated future returns and information
provided by authorized retailers regarding their inventory levels.  Consideration of these factors results in an
accrual for anticipated sales returns that reflects increases or decreases
related to seasonal fluctuations. 
Experience has shown a relationship between retailer inventory levels
and sales returns in the subsequent period, as well as a consistent pattern of
returns due to the seasonal nature of our business.  In addition, as necessary, specific accruals
may be established for significant future known or anticipated events.  The types of known or anticipated events that
we have considered, and will continue to consider, include, but are not limited
to, the financial condition of our customers, store closings by retailers,
changes in the retail environment and our decision to continue or support new
and existing products.

In
the ordinary course of business, we have established an allowance for doubtful
accounts and customer deductions based upon
the evaluation of accounts receivable aging, specific exposures and historical
trends.  Our allowance for doubtful
accounts and customer deductions is a subjective critical estimate that has a
direct impact on reported net earnings. 
The allowance for doubtful accounts was $41.4 million and $26.3
million as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The
allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $14.1 million, $10.2 million and
$18.2 million for customer deductions and write-offs in fiscal 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively, and increased by $29.2 million, $13.2 million and $14.4
million for additional provisions in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Inventory

We state our inventory at the lower of cost or fair
market value, with cost being determined on the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
method.  We believe FIFO most closely
matches the flow of our products from manufacture through sale.  The reported net value of our inventory
includes saleable products, promotional products, raw materials and componentry
and work in process that will be sold or used in future periods.  Inventory cost includes raw materials, direct
labor and overhead, as well as inbound freight. 
Manufacturing overhead is allocated to the cost of inventory based on
the normal production capacity.  Unallocated
overhead during periods of abnormally low production levels are recognized as
cost of sales in the period in which they are incurred.


Table of
Contents

We
also record an inventory obsolescence reserve, which represents the difference
between the cost of the inventory and its estimated realizable value, based on
various product sales projections.  This
reserve is calculated using an estimated obsolescence percentage applied to the
inventory based on age, historical trends and requirements to support
forecasted sales.  In addition, and as
necessary, we may establish specific reserves for future known or anticipated
events.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefit Costs

We
offer the following benefits to some or all of our employees: a domestic
trust-based noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (“U.S.
Qualified Plan”) and an unfunded, non-qualified domestic noncontributory
pension plan to provide benefits in excess of statutory limitations
(collectively with the U.S. Qualified Plan, the “Domestic Plans”); a domestic
contributory defined contribution plan; international pension plans, which vary
by country, consisting of both defined benefit and defined contribution pension
plans; deferred compensation arrangements; and certain other post-retirement
benefit plans.

The
amounts needed to fund future payouts under these plans are subject to numerous
assumptions and variables.  Certain
significant variables require us to make assumptions that are within our
control such as an anticipated discount rate, expected rate of return on plan
assets and future compensation levels. 
We evaluate these assumptions with our actuarial advisors and select
assumptions that we believe reflect the economics underlying our pension and
post-retirement obligations.  While we
believe these assumptions are within accepted industry ranges, an increase or
decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside our control could have a
direct impact on reported net earnings.

The
discount rate for each plan used for determining future net periodic benefit
cost is based on a review of highly rated long-term bonds.  For fiscal 2009, we used a discount rate for
our Domestic Plans of 6.75% and varying rates on our international plans of
between 2.00% and 9.00%.  The discount
rate for our Domestic Plans is based on a bond portfolio that includes only
long-term bonds with an Aa rating, or equivalent, from a major rating agency.  We believe the timing and amount of cash
flows related to the bonds included in this portfolio is expected to match the
estimated defined benefit payment streams of our Domestic Plans.  For fiscal 2009, we used an expected return
on plan assets of 7.75% for our U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates of between
3.25% and 9.00% for our international plans. 
In determining the long-term rate of return for a plan, we consider the
historical rates of return, the nature of the plan’s investments and an
expectation for the plan’s investment strategies.  The U.S. Qualified Plan asset allocation as
of June 30, 2009 was approximately 32% equity investments, 51% debt
securities and 17% other investments. 
The asset allocation of our combined international plans as of June 30,
2009 was approximately 19% equity investments, 59% debt securities and 22%
other investments.  The difference
between actual and expected return on plan assets is reported as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income. 
Those gains/losses that are subject to amortization over future periods
will be recognized as a component of the net periodic benefit cost in such
future periods.  For fiscal 2009, our
pension plans had actual negative return on assets of $60.5 million as compared
with expected return on assets of $52.2 million, which resulted in a net
deferred loss of $112.7 million, of which approximately $48 million is
currently subject to be amortized over periods ranging from approximately 4 to
22 years.  The actual negative return on
assets was primarily related to the performance of equity markets during the
past fiscal year.

A
25 basis-point change in the discount rate or the expected rate of return on
plan assets would have had the following effect on fiscal 2009 pension expense:

Our
post-retirement plans are comprised of health care plans that could be impacted
by health care cost trend rates, which may have a significant effect on the
amounts reported.  A one-percentage-point
change in assumed health care cost trend rates for fiscal 2009 would have had
the following effects:

For
fiscal 2010, we are using a discount rate for the Domestic Plans of 6.50% and
varying rates for our international plans of between 1.75% and 8.75%.  We are using an expected return on plan
assets of 7.75% for the U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates for our
international pension plans of between 2.75% and 8.75%.  The net change in these assumptions from
those used in fiscal 2009 will result in an increase in pension expense of
approximately $1.5 million in fiscal 2010. 
We will continue to monitor the market conditions relative to these
assumptions and adjust them accordingly.


Table of
Contents

Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets

Goodwill
is calculated as the excess of the cost of purchased businesses over the fair
value of their underlying net assets. 
Other indefinite-lived intangible assets principally consist of
trademarks.  Goodwill and other
indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized.

We
assess goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles at least annually for
impairment as of the beginning of the fiscal fourth quarter, or more frequently
if certain events or circumstances warrant. 
We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is
one level below our operating segments. 
We identify our reporting units by assessing whether the components of
our operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial
information is available and management of each reporting unit regularly
reviews the operating results of those components.  Impairment testing is
performed in two steps: (i) we determine impairment by comparing the fair
value of a reporting unit with its carrying value, and (ii) if there is an
impairment, we measure the amount of impairment loss by comparing the implied
fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  The
impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets encompasses calculating
a fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and comparing the fair
value to its carrying value.  If the
carrying value exceeds the fair value, impairment is recorded.

Testing
goodwill for impairment requires us to estimate fair values of reporting units
using significant estimates and assumptions

.  The
assumptions made will impact

the outcome and ultimate results of the
testing.  We use industry accepted
valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by various
levels of management and, in certain instances, we engage third-party valuation
specialists to advise us.

To determine fair value of the reporting
unit, we generally use an equal weighting of the income and market
approaches.  In certain circumstances,
equal weighting will not be applied if one of these methods may be less
reliable (e.g., only the income approach would be used for reporting units with
existing negative margins).

We believe both
approaches are equally relevant and the most reliable indications of fair value
because the fair value of product or service companies is more dependent on the
ability to generate earnings than on the value of the assets used in the
production process.

Under
the income approach, we determine fair value using a discounted cash flow
method, estimating future cash flows of each reporting unit, as well as
terminal value, and discounting such cash flows at a rate of return that reflects
the relative risk of the cash flows.

Under
the market approach, we utilize information from comparable publicly traded
companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the
reporting units, which creates valuation multiples that are applied to the
operating performance of the reporting unit being tested, to value the
reporting unit.

The
key estimates and factors used in these two approaches include, but are not
limited to, revenue growth rates and profit margins based on internal forecasts,
terminal value, the weighted-average cost of capital used to discount future
cash flows and comparable market multiples.  The fiscal 2009 compound
annual growth rate of sales for the first eight years of our projections ranged
between 6% and 19% with the higher growth rates in those reporting units that
start with the smallest base in fiscal 2009.  The fiscal 2008

compound annual growth rate of sales for
the first five years of our projections ranged between 10% and 21% with the
higher growth rates in those reporting units that start with the smallest base
in fiscal 2008.  F

or reporting units with positive earnings, growth in
the corresponding earnings before interest and taxes ranged from 6% to 46% in
fiscal 2009 as compared with 10% to 31% in fiscal 2008.  The terminal
growth rates were projected at 3% after eight years in fiscal 2009 as compared
with 3% after five years in fiscal 2008, which reflects our estimate of long
term market and gross domestic product growth. 
The weighted-average cost of capital used to discount future cash flows
ranged from 11% to 17% in fiscal 2009 as compared with 10% to 15% in fiscal
2008.  The range of market multiples

used in our fiscal 2009 impairment
testing was from 2 to 3 times trailing-twelve-month sales and 10 times
trailing-twelve-month earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and
amortization.  The range of market
multiples used in our fiscal 2008 impairment testing was from 2 to 3 times
trailing-twelve-month sales and 11 to 14 times trailing-twelve-month earnings
before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization.

Future changes in these
estimates and assumptions could materially affect the results of our reviews
for impairment of goodwill.  However, a
decrease of 30 basis points in our terminal growth rate or an increase of 30
basis points in our weighted-average cost of capital would still result in a
fair value calculation exceeding our book value for each of our reporting
units.  Changes in the valuation assumptions
from those used in the prior year primarily reflect the impact of the current
economic environment on the reporting units and their projected future results
of operations.

To
determine fair value of other indefinite-lived intangible assets, we use an
income approach, the relief-from-royalty method.  This method assumes that, in lieu of
ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to obtain
the rights to use the comparable asset. 
Other indefinite-lived intangible assets’ fair values require
significant judgments in determining both the assets’ estimated cash flows as
well as the appropriate discount and royalty rates applied to those cash flows
to determine fair value.  Changes in such
estimates or the application of alternative assumptions could produce
significantly different results.

We
review other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  When such events or changes in circumstances
occur, a recoverability test is performed comparing projected undiscounted cash
flows from the use and eventual disposition of an asset or asset group to its
carrying value.  If the projected
undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment would
be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value, which is
determined by discounting future cash flows.


Table of
Contents

As
the duration and magnitude of the volatility of the current economic conditions
remain uncertain, we will continue to monitor and evaluate the potential impact
on our business and on our interim and annual impairment testing.  Accordingly, it is possible that we would
recognize an impairment charge in the future with respect to goodwill,
intangible assets and other long-lived assets.

Income Taxes

We
account for income taxes using an asset and liability approach that requires
the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future
tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial
statements or tax returns.  As of June 30,
2009, we have current net deferred tax assets of $202.7 million and non-current
net deferred tax assets of $156.0 million. 
The net deferred tax assets assume sufficient future earnings for their
realization, as well as the continued application of currently anticipated tax
rates.  Included in net deferred tax assets is a valuation allowance of $23.5
million for deferred tax assets, where management believes it is
more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized in the
relevant jurisdiction.  Based on our
assessments, no additional valuation allowance is required.  If we determine that a deferred tax asset
will not be realizable, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will result in
a reduction of net earnings at that time.

We
provide tax reserves for Federal, state, local and international exposures
relating to periods subject to audit. 
The development of reserves for these exposures requires judgments about
tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective critical estimate.  We assess our tax positions and record tax
benefits for all years subject to examination based upon management’s
evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information available at the
reporting dates.  For those tax positions
where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have
recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood
of being realized upon settlement with a tax authority that has full knowledge
of all relevant information.  For those
tax positions where it is not more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be
sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements.

We classify applicable interest and penalties as a
component of the provision for income taxes.

Although the outcome relating to these exposures is uncertain, in
management’s opinion adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for
estimable potential liabilities emanating from these exposures.  In certain circumstances, the ultimate
outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties which render
them inestimable.  If actual outcomes
differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on
our results of operations.

Derivatives

We
address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk
management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments.  We primarily enter into foreign currency
forward and option contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign
currency exchange rates and interest rate derivatives to manage the effects of
interest rate movements on our aggregate liability portfolio.  We also enter into foreign currency forward
and option contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to mitigate the
change in fair value of specific assets and liabilities on the balance
sheet.  We do not utilize derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  Hedge effectiveness is documented, assessed
and monitored by employees who are qualified to make such assessments and
monitor the instruments.  Variables that
are external to us such as social, political and economic risks may have an
impact on our hedging program and the results thereof.

Our
derivative financial instruments are recorded as either assets or liabilities
on the balance sheet and measured at fair value.  All derivatives outstanding as of June 30,
2009 are (i) designated as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset
or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (“fair-value” hedge), (ii) designated
as a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to
be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (“foreign
currency cash-flow” hedge), or (iii) not designated as a hedging
instrument.  Changes in the fair value of
a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair-value hedge that is
highly effective are recorded in current-period earnings, along with the loss
or gain on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged
risk (including losses or gains on firm commitments).  Changes in the fair value of a derivative
that is designated and qualifies as a foreign currency cash-flow hedge of a
foreign-currency-denominated forecasted transaction that is highly effective
are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”).  Gains and losses deferred in OCI are then
recognized in current-period earnings when earnings are affected by the
variability of cash flows of the hedged foreign-currency-denominated forecasted
transaction (e.g., when periodic settlements on a variable-rate asset or
liability are recorded in earnings). 
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments not designated as
hedging instruments are reported in current-period earnings.

For
a discussion on the quantitative impact of market risks related to our
derivative financial instruments, refer to “

Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Market Risk.”

Quantitative Analysis

During
the three-year period ended June 30, 2009 there have not been material
changes in the assumptions underlying these critical accounting policies, nor
to the related significant estimates. 
The results of our business underlying these assumptions have not
differed significantly from our expectations.


Table of
Contents

While
we believe that the estimates that we have made are proper and the related
results of operations for the period are presented fairly in all material respects,
other assumptions could reasonably be justified that would change the amount of
reported net sales, cost of sales, operating expenses or our provision for
income taxes as they relate to the provisions for anticipated sales returns,
allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory obsolescence reserve and income
taxes.  For fiscal 2009, had these
estimates been changed simultaneously by 2.5% in either direction, our reported
gross profit would have increased or decreased by approximately $5.0 million,
operating expenses would have changed by approximately $1.0 million and the
provision for income taxes would have increased or decreased by approximately
$2.9 million.  The collective impact of
these changes on operating income, net earnings and net earnings per diluted
common share would be an increase or decrease of approximately $6.0 million,
$8.9 million and $.04, respectively.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

Global
economic challenges and uncertainties have had a significant impact on our
business during fiscal 2009.  These
challenges and uncertainties have negatively affected consumer demand, which is
having an adverse impact on our customers that are retailers as well as on our
own retail stores.  These events have led
to significant retailer destocking and changes in their ordering patterns for
the products that we sell, which has contributed to the overall decline in our
results of operations during this year.

In
the Americas region, the U.S. department store channel experienced a very soft
retail environment, which deteriorated beyond our expectations.  While our business continues to suffer from
lower store traffic and destocking, we believe that we gained share in the skin
care category at U.S. department stores with the help of positive consumer response
to new product offerings and gift sets. 
Net sales results in alternative channels were generally mixed.  Trends at our freestanding retail stores
followed those in department stores while sales of our products online and via
direct response television (“DRTV”) continued to grow.

Global
economic uncertainty has also impacted our business in Europe, the Middle East &
Africa.  Net sales in many of our key
markets declined during fiscal 2009.  Our
business was also impacted by retailer destocking and tighter working capital
management.  Sales and profits in our
travel retail business fell sharply due to a slowdown in passenger traffic,
retailer destocking and the impact of weaker currencies.

At
this time, our business in the Asia/Pacific region has been least affected by
the global financial crisis, with net sales rising double digits in several
countries, although growth in the region has slowed overall including in Japan,
our largest market there.  Net sales in China
grew at a faster pace than in the other countries in the region as we continue
our expansion in this emerging market. 
Strong constant currency net sales increases in Korea were offset by the
weakness of the Korean won.  Despite the
overall net sales increase in this region, growth has been tempered by a softer
retail environment.

In
addition to the ongoing global financial crisis, our business has been
negatively impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates caused by the
dramatic strengthening of the U.S. dollar during fiscal 2009.  If the U.S. dollar strengthens, there would
be an adverse impact on our future results.

We are taking actions to mitigate the impact of these economic conditions.  We believe that the best way to increase stockholder value is to provide our customers and consumers with the products and services that they have come to expect from us in the most efficient and profitable manner while recognizing their changing shopping habits.  To achieve our goal to be the global leader in prestige beauty, we are implementing a long-term strategy to guide the Company through fiscal 2013.  The plan has numerous initiatives across regions, product categories, brands and functions that are designed to leverage our strengths, make us more cost efficient and grow our sales.

As
part of our strategy, we plan to shift our category mix towards higher margin
categories with greater global growth potential.  Skin care, our most profitable category, is a
strategic priority for our innovation and investment spending, particularly in
the Asia/Pacific region.  We also plan to
strengthen our geographic presence by seeking share growth in large,
image-building cities within core markets such as the United States, the United
Kingdom, France, Italy and Japan.  In
addition, we will continue to prioritize efforts to expand our presence and
accelerate share growth in emerging markets such as China, Russia, the Middle
East and Eastern Europe.  While we expect
the retail environment in North America to continue to be challenging, we
recognize the need to restore profitable growth in our traditional department
store channel.  We have recently
implemented changes to reshape our organization to meet the needs of the
changing retail landscape. 
Internationally, we plan to achieve profitable growth in European
perfumeries and pharmacies and in department stores in Asia, while accentuating
our makeup and skin care initiatives to boost our travel retail business.  In addition, we will continue our efforts to
grow our business online and through DRTV. 
To optimize our portfolio, we will focus on improving our margins and
share in our distribution channels.  We
plan to re-energize certain of our brands through the introduction of products
that feature advances in research and technology.  At the same time, we will be investing in
initiatives to incubate and develop next generation products and brands, as
well as evaluating the viability of certain existing brands and products.  We intend to leverage our regional organizations
to increase effectiveness and efficiencies while utilizing strategic
partnerships, alliances and licensing to build scale in research and
development, distribution and third party manufacturing.



Charges Associated with Restructuring Activities

In an effort to drive down costs and achieve synergies within our organization, in February 2009, we announced the implementation of a multi-faceted cost savings program (the “Program”) to position the Company to achieve long-term profitable growth.  We anticipate the Program will result in related restructuring and other special charges 
in fiscal 2009 and over the next few fiscal years totaling between $350 million and $450 million before taxes.  We expect that the implementation of this Program, combined with other on-going cost savings efforts, will result in savings of approximately $450 million to $550 million (beginning with approximately $175 million to $200 million in fiscal 2010) including the reduction of certain costs relative to an assumed normalized spending pattern.  Our long-range forecast for operating margin reflects these anticipated savings, net of strategic reinvestments.

The Program focuses on a
redesign of our organizational structure in order to integrate the Company in a
more cohesive way and operate more globally across brands and functions.  The principal aspect of the Program is the
reduction of the workforce by approximately 2,000 employees.  Specific actions taken during fiscal 2009
included:

·

Resize and Reorganize the Organization

— We began our realignment and
optimization of our organization to better leverage scale, improve productivity
and reduce complexity in each region and across various functions.  This included reduction of the workforce,
which occurred through the consolidation of certain functions through a
combination of normal attrition and job eliminations, and a rationalization of
manufacturing capacity via the scheduled closure of one of our manufacturing
and assembly plants.

·

Exit Unprofitable Operations

— To improve the profitability in
certain of our brands and regions, we have selectively exited certain channels
of distribution, categories and markets. 
In doing so, we incurred costs to reduce workforce, terminate contracts,
write off fixed assets and discontinue certain product lines and stock-keeping
units.

·

Outsourcing

— In order to balance the growing need for
information technology support with our efforts to provide the most efficient
and cost effective solutions, we initiated the outsourcing of certain
information technology processes.  We
incurred costs to eliminate certain related headcount and to transition
services to an outsource provider.

For the year ended June 30, 2009, aggregate restructuring charges of $70.3 million were recorded in our consolidated statements of earnings related to the Program.  These charges primarily reflected employee-related costs, asset write-offs, contract terminations and other exit costs.

The following table presents the restructuring activity as of and for the year ended June 30, 2009 under the Program:

Accrued restructuring charges at June 30, 2009 are expected to result in cash expenditures funded from cash provided by operations of approximately $48 million, $6 million and $1 million in fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively.

The total amount of restructuring charges incurred plus other initiatives approved through June 30, 2009, include approximately $75 million for employee-related costs, approximately $6 million in asset write-offs and approximately $8 million of contract terminations and other exit costs.

We incurred other special charges in connection with the implementation of the Program for the year ended June 30, 2009 of $10.1 million related to consulting, other professional services, and accelerated depreciation.  The total amount of other special charges expected to be incurred to implement these initiatives, including those incurred through June 30, 2009, is approximately $36 million.  In addition to the other special charges, we recorded $8.1 million reflecting sales returns (less a related cost of sales of $1.2 million) and a write-off of inventory associated with exiting unprofitable operations of $8.0 million.



During the year ended June 30, 2009, we recorded a gain of $3.6 million related to excess accruals that were recorded as other special charges in prior years.

Total charges associated with restructuring activities included in operating income for the year ended June 30, 2009 were $91.7 million.

While our business strategies are designed to strengthen the Company over the long-term, we believe the uncertainty about future market conditions, consumer spending patterns and the financial strength of some of our retail customers, coupled with retailer destocking and tighter working capital management, will continue to negatively affect our net sales and operating results.  In line with our strategic plan, we will continue to seek ways to contain costs and reduce our inventory levels.

We
manufacture, market and sell beauty products including those in the skin care,
makeup, fragrance and hair care categories which are distributed in over 140
countries and territories.  The following
table is a comparative summary of operating results from continuing operations
for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 and reflects the basis of presentation described
in Note 2 and Note 20 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for all
periods presented.  Products and services
that do not meet our definition of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care
have been included in the “other” category.


Table of
Contents

The
following table presents certain consolidated earnings data as a percentage of
net sales:

In
order to meet the demands of consumers, we continually introduce new products,
support new and established products through advertising, sampling and
merchandising and phase out existing products that no longer meet the needs of
our consumers.  The economics of
developing, producing, launching and supporting products influence our sales
and operating performance each period. 
The introduction of new products may have some cannibalizing effect on
sales of existing products, which we take into account in our business
planning.

Fiscal 2009 as Compared with Fiscal 2008

NET
SALES

Net sales decreased 7%,
or $587.0 million, to $7,323.8 million, reflecting declines in each of our
major product categories.  Net sales
decreases in Europe, the Middle East & Africa and the Americas
reflected customer destocking in all of our major product categories.  These declines were partially offset by
growth in Asia/Pacific.  Excluding the
$389.4 million impact of foreign currency translation, net sales decreased 2%.  The following discussions of Net Sales by

Product Categories

and

Geographic Regions

exclude the impact of returns associated with restructuring activities of $8.1
million incurred in fiscal 2009.  We
believe the following analysis of net sales better reflects the manner in which
we conduct and view our business.

Product Categories

Skin Care

Net sales of skin care products
decreased 4%, or $110.8 million, to $2,886.0 million, primarily reflecting
declines in net sales from our heritage brands. 
Despite the difficult economic environment and the unfavorable impact of
foreign currency translation, we continued to enhance select product lines to
address the needs of our consumers.  The
recent launches of Perfectionist [CP+] Wrinkle Lifting Serum and the new Time
Zone line of moisturizing products from Estée Lauder and Superdefense SPF 25
Age Defense Moisturizer and Youth Surge SPF 15 Age Decelerating Moisturizer
from Clinique contributed incremental sales of approximately $181 million,
combined.  While these new product launches contributed favorably to the
category, they were partially offset by lower sales from other existing
products in the Perfectionist, Idealist and Re-Nutriv lines from Estée Lauder
and the Superdefense and Repairwear lines from Clinique of approximately $163
million, combined.  Net sales of most
other product lines in this category also experienced declines, particularly in
Europe, the Middle East & Africa and the Americas, partially offset by
double-digit growth in Asia/Pacific. 
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, skin care net
sales increased 2%.


Table
of Contents

Makeup

Makeup net sales
decreased 6%, or $169.5 million, to $2,830.9 million, primarily reflecting
lower net sales from our heritage brands of approximately $162 million.  Lower net sales in the makeup product
category also reflected a net decrease from our makeup artist brands of
approximately $14 million, driven by the Americas region, partially offset by additional
points of distribution internationally. 
These declines were mitigated in part by recent product launches of
reformulated Superfit Makeup and High Impact Lip Colour SPF 15 from Clinique,
as well as Estée Lauder Signature Blush, which contributed incremental sales to
the category of approximately $82 million, combined.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, makeup net sales decreased 1%.

Fragrance

Net
sales of fragrance products decreased 20%, or $281.1 million, to $1,150.9 million.  This decline was largely due to lower sales
of designer fragrances, of which approximately $181 million was attributable to
certain DKNY, Tommy Hilfiger and Sean John fragrances.  Also contributing to the decrease were lower
sales of certain Estée Lauder and Clinique fragrances of approximately $132
million, combined.  The recent launches
of Estée Lauder Sensuous, Hilfiger Men, the new DKNY Men fragrance and I Am
King Sean John partially offset these declines by collectively contributing
sales of approximately $88 million to the category.  Excluding the
impact of foreign currency translation, fragrance net sales decreased 14%.

Hair Care

Hair care net sales
decreased 6%, or $24.7 million, to $402.4 million, primarily reflecting a soft
salon retail environment and a reduction in points of distribution in the
United States.  Net sales were also
negatively impacted as a result of the conclusion of a hotel amenities program
in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. 
These declines were partially offset by incremental sales of
approximately $13 million from new products, such as Dry Remedy Shampoo and
Conditioner and the Sun Care line of products from Aveda.  The category also benefited from improved
sales of hair color products, as well as an increase in points of distribution
outside of the United States, including the acquisition of an independent
distributor in Australia.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, hair care net sales decreased 3%.

Geographic
Regions

Net sales in the Americas
decreased 8%, or $290.3 million, to $3,421.2 million.  Lower net sales in the United States from our
heritage and makeup artist brands as well as our hair care businesses
contributed approximately $275 million to the decrease.  Net sales declines in Canada of approximately
$36 million were partially offset by growth in Latin America of approximately
$3 million.  Net sales in these markets
reflected the adverse impact of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar.  Economic conditions in the Americas region,
particularly in the department store channel, have negatively impacted our
businesses.  Ongoing challenges faced by
certain of our department store customers in the United States may continue to
affect our net sales for the short and medium term.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, net sales in the Americas decreased 7%.

In Europe, the Middle
East & Africa, net sales decreased 13%, or $395.4 million, to $2,611.3
million, primarily reflecting the unfavorable impact of foreign currency
translation.  Net sales decreases of
approximately $323 million were driven by the United Kingdom, our travel retail
business, Spain, France and Italy.  These
performances reflected retailer destocking and tighter working capital
management by certain key retailers.  Net
sales in our travel retail business also declined due to a significant slowdown
in passenger traffic and the impact of weaker currencies in certain key
markets.  Partially offsetting these
decreases were higher net sales of approximately $11 million in the Middle East
and Israel.  Excluding the impact of
foreign currency translation, net sales in Europe, the Middle East &
Africa decreased 4%.

Net sales in Asia/Pacific
increased 9%, or $106.8 million, to $1,299.4 million, reflecting higher net
sales of approximately $109 million in China, Japan and Hong Kong.  Net sales growth in China and Hong Kong
benefited from the launches of new skin care products while Japan’s increase
was generated from the strengthening of the Japanese yen.  Partially offsetting these increases were
lower net sales of approximately $13 million in Australia, New Zealand and
Korea, reflecting the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against their respective
local currencies.  Despite the overall net
sales increase in this region, growth has been tempered by a softer retail
environment.  Excluding the impact of
foreign currency translation, Asia/Pacific net sales increased 14%.

We
believe the unfavorable global economic conditions will continue to adversely
impact our financial performance.  We
cannot predict with certainty the magnitude or duration of the impact or how it
will vary across each of our geographic regions.

We
strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may
account for differences in regional sales growth.


Table
of Contents

COST OF SALES

Cost
of sales as a percentage of total net sales increased to 25.7% as compared with
25.2% in the prior year.  This change
reflected an increase in obsolescence charges of approximately 40 basis points,
excess overhead costs that were not recovered due to lower production levels of
approximately 30 basis points and the negative effect of exchange rates of
approximately 20 basis points.  The
increase in cost of sales margin also reflected the fiscal 2009 impact of
charges associated with restructuring activities and an increase in the level
and timing of promotional activities of approximately 10 basis points,
each.  Partially offsetting these
increases were favorable changes in the mix of our business and from other
manufacturing variances of approximately 50 basis points and 10 basis points,
respectively.

Since
certain promotional activities are a component of sales or cost of sales and
the timing and level of promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we have
experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in the cost of
sales percentage.  In addition, future
cost of sales mix may be impacted by the inclusion of new brands or channels of
distribution which have margin and product cost structures different from those
of our current mix of business.

OPERATING
EXPENSES

Operating expenses
increased to 68.6% of net sales as compared with 64.5% of net sales in the
prior year.  In light of the current
economic conditions, we continued to apply various cost-containment measures to
maintain expenses in line with our business needs.  While the implementation of these initiatives
helped reduce total operating expenses as compared with the prior year, the
dramatic decline in net sales during fiscal 2009 was the principal factor that
negatively impacted our operating expense margin.  In addition to the decline in net sales,
operating expense margin increased by approximately 110 basis points due to
charges associated with restructuring activities, as previously discussed.

During
fiscal 2009, we evaluated our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived
assets based upon certain triggering events as well as our annual impairment
test of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets.  Inclusive
of the impairment charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we
recorded impairment charges of approximately $14 million related to goodwill,
approximately $23 million related to trademarks with indefinite lives,
approximately $17 million related to other amortizable intangible assets and
approximately $9 million related to property, plant and equipment for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 2009.  The principal factors that contributed to
these impairment charges were lower than expected operating cash flow
performance relative to the reporting unit and/or affected assets being tested

and the impact of the current economic
environment on their projected future results of operations.

Collectively, these charges resulted in an
increase to our operating expense margin of approximately 90 basis
points.  For further detailed discussion, refer to Note 4 and Note 5 to
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Despite a reduction in
actual selling, advertising, merchandising and sampling spending, operating
expense margin increased by approximately 60 basis points driven by the decline
in consumer demand in the current economic environment.  Changes in advertising, merchandising and
sampling spending result from the type, timing and level of activities related
to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets being emphasized.

Other factors that
contributed to the increase in operating expense margin were higher costs of
global information technology systems and infrastructure of approximately 50
basis points, net losses from foreign exchange transactions of approximately 40
basis points, and charges resulting from the degradation of the businesses of
certain of our retail customers of approximately 20 basis points.

OPERATING RESULTS

Operating income
decreased 48%, or $392.3 million, to $418.4 million.  Operating margin decreased to 5.7% of net
sales as compared with 10.3% in the prior year, reflecting our lower gross
margin and the increase in our operating expense margin as previously
discussed.  The following discussions of
Operating Results by

Product Categories

and

Geographic Regions

exclude the impact of
total charges associated with restructuring activities of $91.7 million, or
1.3% of net sales.  We believe the
following analysis of operating results better reflects the manner in which we
conduct and view our business.

Product Categories

Fragrance
operating results decreased over 100%, or $97.0 million, to an operating loss
of $60.8 million primarily reflecting lower net sales of designer fragrance
products and certain fragrances from our heritage brands as well as a charge
for intangible asset impairment, which were partially offset by a reduction in
selling, advertising, merchandising and sampling spending.  Hair care operating income decreased 90%, or
$10.4 million, to $1.1 million primarily reflecting lower net sales and a
charge for intangible asset impairment. 
Skin care operating income decreased 27%, or $111.5 million, to $294.1
million and makeup operating income decreased 22%, or $79.6 million, to $279.8
million.  The reduced operating results
for the skin care and makeup categories primarily reflected the decline in net
sales and charges for goodwill, intangible asset and other long-lived asset
impairments, as well as the majority of the impact of the excess overhead
charge, loss from foreign exchange transactions and certain other operating
expenses as described above.


Table of
Contents

Geographic Regions

Operating income in the
Americas decreased 50%, or $113.1 million, to $115.2 million.  This decline reflected charges for goodwill,
intangible asset and other long-lived asset impairments, the majority of the
impact of the excess overhead charge and the charge related to the degradation
of a certain retailer of approximately $66 million, combined.  Also contributing to the decline were lower
sales experienced by the majority of our businesses in the region due to
current economic conditions, partially offset by cost containment and contingency
plan efforts.

In Europe, the Middle
East & Africa, operating income decreased 47%, or $203.4 million, to
$229.7 million.  This decrease primarily
reflected lower results of approximately $156 million in our travel retail
business, Spain, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and Italy, of which
approximately $34 million related to charges for goodwill and intangible asset
impairments and the degradation of certain retailers.

In Asia/Pacific,
operating income increased 10%, or $15.5 million, to $165.2 million.  Most of our affiliates in this region
experienced an increase despite a softer retail environment in certain
countries.  Approximately $20 million of
this increase was generated in Hong Kong, China, Korea and Japan.  Partially offsetting these improvements were
lower results in Australia, Singapore and New Zealand of approximately $5
million, combined.

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

Net interest expense was
$75.7 million as compared with $66.8 million in the prior year.  Interest expense increased primarily due to
higher average debt balances, which include an additional $300.0 million of
senior notes issued in November 2008, partially offset by lower average
interest rates on pre-existing borrowings. 
In addition, interest income decreased primarily due to lower average
investment rates.

PROVISION FOR
INCOME TAXES

The
provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income
taxes.  The effective rate differs from
statutory rates due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in
foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses.  Our effective tax rate will change from year
to year based on recurring and non-recurring factors including, but not limited
to, the geographical mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation, state and local
income taxes, tax audit settlements and the interaction of various global tax
strategies.

The
effective rate for income taxes for the year ended June 30, 2009 was 33.8%
as compared with 34.9% in the prior year. 
The decrease in the effective income tax rate of 110 basis points was
primarily attributable to a favorable settlement with the Appeals Division of
the IRS (560 basis points), partially offset by an increase in non-deductible
expenses and an increase in state and local income tax expense (450 basis
points).

NET EARNINGS

Net
earnings as compared with fiscal 2008 decreased 54%, or $255.4 million, to
$218.4 million and diluted net earnings per common share declined 54% from
$2.40 to $1.10.  These results include
the impact of total charges associated with restructuring activities of $61.7
million, after tax, or $.31 per diluted common share.

Fiscal 2008 as Compared with Fiscal 2007

NET SALES

Net sales increased 12%

,

or $873.3 million, to $7,910.8 million,
reflecting net sales growth in all of our product categories within each
geographic region.  Skin care, makeup and
fragrance net sales increases were led by Europe, the Middle East & Africa
while most of the net sales increase in hair care was achieved in the
Americas.  The increase in net sales
reflected our efforts to capitalize on growth opportunities
internationally.  Excluding the impact of
foreign currency translation, net sales increased 8%.


Table of
Contents

Product Categories

Skin Care

Net sales of skin care products increased
15%, or $395.8 million, to $2,996.8 million. 
This growth reflected the launches of Idealist Pore Minimizing Skin
Refinisher, Cyber White EX and Hydra Bright Skin Tone Perfecting Moisturizers
from Estée Lauder.  Also contributing to
the growth were the recent launches of products in the Acne Solutions Clear
Skin System, Redness Solutions and Even Better Skin Tone Corrector from
Clinique as well as The Eye Concentrate and The Moisturizing Gel Cream from La
Mer.  Collectively, these new products
resulted in incremental sales of approximately $215 million.  Net sales increases from Re-Nutriv and
Resilience Lift Extreme Ultra Firming products from Estée Lauder, products in
Clinique’s 3-Step Skin Care System and Repairwear line, and Tri-Aktiline™
Instant Deep Wrinkle Filler from Good Skin™ totaled approximately $80
million.  These improvements were
partially offset by approximately $55 million of lower sales from certain other
existing Idealist products and Perfectionist products from Estée Lauder.  Net sales of other new and existing products
also significantly contributed to the growth. 
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, skin care net
sales increased 10%.

Makeup

Makeup net sales
increased 11%, or $287.7 million, to $3,000.4 million reflecting growth from
our makeup artist brands of approximately $194 million.  Also contributing to the growth were
incremental sales from the launches of Estée Lauder Signature Hydra Lustre
Lipstick, Double Wear Zero Smudge Mascara and Eyeliner from Estée Lauder,
Supermoisture Makeup and Superbalm Moisturizing Gloss from Clinique, as well as
higher sales of Double Wear Stay-In-Place Makeup from Estée Lauder of
approximately $97 million, combined.  Partially offsetting these increases
were lower sales of approximately $30 million of Pure Color Eyeshadow and High
Gloss from Estée Lauder and Colour Surge Lipstick from Clinique.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, makeup net sales increased 7%.

Fragrance

Net sales of fragrance products increased 9%,
or $123.4 million, to $1,432.0 million. 
The launches of Sean John Unforgivable Woman, Dreaming Tommy Hilfiger,
Estée Lauder Pure White Linen Light Breeze, Estée Lauder

pleasures
delight

and DKNY Delicious Night collectively contributed
approximately $95 million to the growth in the category.  Higher sales of approximately $62 million of
DKNY Be Delicious, Jo Malone and Tom Ford fragrances also contributed to the
increase.  Lower sales of approximately
$53 million of Tommy Girl by Tommy Hilfiger, DKNY Red Delicious Women and DKNY
Be Delicious Men partially offset the growth in this product category.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, fragrance net sales increased 5%.

Hair Care

Hair care net sales
increased 13%, or $50.0 million, to $427.1 million, primarily due to the
inclusion of the Ojon brand which was acquired at the end of July 2007, as
well as growth from Aveda and Bumble and bumble.

Aveda net sales increases
benefited from the launches of Smooth Infusion and Aveda Men Pure-Formance
products, as well as the fiscal 2008 acquisition of an independent
distributor.

Bumble and bumble net sales benefited from new points
of distribution and increases from its hotel amenities program, which concluded
in the fiscal 2008 third quarter.  Excluding the impact of foreign
currency translation, hair care net sales increased 11%.

Geographic Regions

Net sales in the Americas
increased 4%, or $150.6 million, to $3,711.5 million, primarily reflecting net
sales growth in Canada and Latin America, as well as the addition of the Ojon
brand, of approximately $98 million, combined.

Additional net sales increases of approximately $65 million were
attributable to our designer fragrances business and our makeup artist and hair
care brands in the United States. 
Partially offsetting this growth was approximately $37 million related
to weaknesses in certain of our heritage brands in the United States as a
result of competitive pressures and challenges in the department store
channel.

We believe that economic uncertainty in the United
States has affected our business, particularly in the department store
channel.  These challenges have been
mitigated through sales in alternative channels, such as freestanding retail
stores, Internet distribution, self-select distribution and direct-response
television.  Excluding the impact of
foreign currency translation, net sales in the Americas increased 3%.

All countries in Europe,
the Middle East & Africa experienced net sales growth, which
contributed to the increase in net sales of 21%, or $513.3 million, to $3,006.7
million, although net sales growth rates slowed in certain key countries.  This growth was led by our travel retail
business and the United Kingdom, as well as in Russia, which benefited from our
expansion in this market.  The results in
this region were inclusive of an exchange rate benefit due to the weakening of
the U.S. dollar of approximately $206 million. 
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales in
Europe, the Middle East & Africa increased 12%.


Table of
Contents

Net sales in Asia/Pacific
increased 21%, or $209.4 million, to $1,192.6 million, reflecting growth from
all countries in the region.  This
increase reflected higher net sales of approximately $172 million in China,
Japan, Hong Kong, Australia and Korea. 
The results in this region were inclusive of an exchange rate benefit
due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar of approximately $66 million.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency
translation, Asia/Pacific net sales increased 15%.

We
strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may
account for differences in regional sales growth.

COST OF
SALES

Cost
of sales as a percentage of total net sales was 25.2%, which is the same as in
fiscal 2007.  Cost of sales as a
percentage of net sales reflected a decrease in the level and timing of
promotional activities of approximately 20 basis points and a positive effect
of exchange rates of approximately 10 basis points.  Offsetting these improvements was an
unfavorable change in the mix of our business, an increase in obsolescence
charges, and employee-related charges designed to streamline certain business
activities and achieve future cost savings of approximately 10 basis points,
each.

Despite
the rise in energy and raw material prices in the current year, we were able to
maintain our overall cost of goods margin through other efficiencies achieved
from ongoing savings initiatives.

Since
certain promotional activities are a component of sales or cost of sales and
the timing and level of promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we have
experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in the cost of
sales percentage.  In addition, future
cost of sales mix may be impacted by the inclusion of new brands which have
margin and product cost structures different from those of our existing brands.

OPERATING
EXPENSES

Operating expenses
increased to 64.5% of net sales as compared with 64.1% of net sales in the
fiscal 2007.  The increase in operating
expenses and operating expense margin reflected higher costs of global
information technology systems and infrastructure of approximately 30 basis
points.  An additional 20 basis points
resulted from an increase in valuation reserves reflecting the diminishing
likelihood of realizing value from a promissory note and convertible preferred
stock received in connection with the divestiture of Stila in fiscal 2006.  We also recorded an increase in intangible
asset amortization resulting from recent strategic acquisitions, as well as
employee-related charges designed to streamline certain business activities and
achieve future cost savings, of approximately 10 basis points each.  Operating expense margin in fiscal 2007 was
adversely impacted by charges related to our pharmacy channel of approximately
40 basis points.

Changes in advertising,
merchandising and sampling spending result from the type, timing and level of
activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets
being emphasized.

OPERATING
RESULTS

Operating income
increased 8%, or $60.8 million, to $810.7 million as compared with fiscal
2007.  Operating margin declined to 10.3%
of net sales as compared with 10.7% in fiscal 2007, reflecting our constant
cost of sales margin and the increase in our operating expense margin, as
previously discussed.

Product Categories

Fragrance operating
income increased 29%, or $8.1 million, to $36.2 million, reflecting profitable
international growth, partially offset by increased spending in support of
designer fragrance products initiatives. 
Skin care operating income increased 19%, or $64.1 million, to $405.6
million, primarily reflecting improved international results from certain of
our heritage brands and net sales growth from La Mer products and Tri-Aktiline

TM

Instant Deep
Wrinkle Filler from Good Skin

TM

.  In addition, the fiscal 2007 results in this
category reflected organizational costs of approximately $30 million, primarily
related to our pharmacy channel in Europe. 
Makeup operating income increased 6%, or $20.1 million, to $359.4
million, primarily reflecting improved results internationally.  These improvements were partially offset by
lower results in the United States from certain of our heritage brands, the
charge on the impairment of Stila-related financial instruments, and costs
related to the establishment of new points of distribution for M

ž

A

ž

C.  Hair care operating income declined 73%, or
$31.0 million, to $11.5 million, primarily reflecting costs related to the
acquisition and integration of Ojon to position the brand for future growth.  The results in this category also reflected
an increase in intangible asset amortization resulting from fiscal 2008
strategic acquisitions as well as costs related to the establishment of new
points of distribution.


Table
of Contents

Geographic Regions

Operating income in the
Americas declined 32%, or $108.1 million, to $228.3 million, primarily
reflecting a difficult retail environment in which our heritage brands faced
challenges in the department store channel. 
We also experienced significant pressure on the profitability of our
hair care business as discussed above. 
At the same time, we continued to invest in our global information technology
systems and infrastructure.  In addition,
we established new points of distribution for existing brands, incurred costs
to streamline certain business activities to generate future efficiencies and
incurred a charge on the impairment of Stila-related financial instruments, as
discussed above.

In Europe, the Middle
East & Africa, operating income increased 35%, or $111.7 million, to
$433.1 million primarily due to higher results of approximately $71 million in
our travel retail business, the United Kingdom, Italy, the Balkans and
Spain.  Partially offsetting these
increases were lower results in Russia and India of approximately $6 million,
reflecting spending to support our expansion in these markets.  The overall operating results in this region
were adversely impacted in fiscal 2007 by the pharmacy channel charges
discussed above.

In Asia/Pacific,
operating income increased 61%, or $56.5 million, to $149.7 million.  All of our affiliates in this region
experienced an increase in operating income, primarily resulting from net sales
growth led by Japan, Hong Kong, China, Australia and Korea, which contributed
approximately $43 million, collectively.

INTEREST
EXPENSE, NET

Net interest expense was
$66.8 million as compared with $38.9 million in fiscal 2007.  This change primarily resulted from higher
average debt balances, including an additional $600.0 million of senior notes
issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, partially offset by lower average
interest rates.

PROVISION
FOR INCOME TAXES

The
provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income
taxes.  The effective rate differs from
statutory rates due to the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in
foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses.  Our effective tax rate will change from year
to year based on non-recurring and recurring factors including, but not limited
to, the geographical mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation, state and local
taxes, tax audit settlements and the interaction of various global tax
strategies.  The effective rate for
income taxes for the year ended June 30, 2008 was 34.9% as compared with
35.9% in fiscal 2007.  The decrease in
the effective income tax rate of 100 basis points resulted primarily from a
decrease in state and local income tax expense (240 basis points) partially
offset by an increase in the tax effect of our foreign operations (140 basis
points).

NET
EARNINGS

Net
earnings as compared with fiscal 2007 increased 5%, or $24.6 million, to $473.8
million and diluted net earnings per common share improved 11% from $2.16 to
$2.40.

FINANCIAL
CONDITION

LIQUIDITY
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

Our
principal sources of funds historically have been cash flows from operations,
borrowings pursuant to our commercial paper program, borrowings from the
issuance of long-term debt and committed and uncommitted credit lines provided
by banks and other lenders in the United States and abroad.  At June 30, 2009, we had cash and cash
equivalents of $864.5 million compared with $401.7 million at June 30,
2008.

Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained
at a number of financial institutions. 
As of June 30, 2009, approximately 10% of the total balance is
insured by governmental agencies.  To
mitigate the risk of uninsured balances, we select financial institutions based
on their credit ratings and financial strength

and perform ongoing
evaluations of these institutions to limit our concentration risk exposure.

Our
business is seasonal in nature and, accordingly, our working capital needs
vary.  From time to time, we may enter
into investing and financing transactions that require additional funding.  To the extent that these needs exceed cash
from operations, we could, subject to market conditions, issue commercial
paper, issue long-term debt securities or borrow under our revolving credit
facilities.

During
fiscal 2009, we have been able to issue commercial paper in amounts and with
terms that we deem acceptable.  We do not
anticipate protracted difficulties in securing this form of working capital
financing.  However, in order to maintain
sufficient cash reserves over a longer period of time, in light of the current
macroeconomic conditions, and the real or perceived lack of available credit,
we issued $300.0 million of 7.75% Senior Notes due November 1, 2013 during
the second quarter of fiscal 2009.  The
net proceeds were used to repay then-outstanding commercial paper balances upon
their maturity.



Based
on past performance and current expectations, we believe that cash on hand,
cash generated from operations, available credit lines and access to credit
markets will be adequate to support currently planned business operations,
information systems enhancements, capital expenditures, potential stock
repurchases, commitments and other contractual obligations on both a near-term
and long-term basis.

The
effects of inflation have not been significant to our overall operating results
in recent years.  Generally, we have been
able to introduce new products at higher selling prices or increase selling
prices sufficiently to offset cost increases, which have been moderate.

Debt

At
June 30, 2009, our outstanding borrowings were as follows:

We
have a $750.0 million commercial paper program under which we may issue
commercial paper in the United States. 
Our commercial paper is currently rated A-1 by Standard & Poor’s
and P-1 by Moody’s.  Our long-term credit
ratings are A with a negative outlook by Standard & Poor’s and A2 with
a negative outlook by Moody’s.  At June 30,
2009, there was no commercial paper outstanding.  We also have $201.4 million in additional
uncommitted credit facilities, of which $16.3 million was used as of June 30,
2009.

We
have an undrawn $750.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that
expires on April 26, 2012.  This
facility may be used primarily to provide credit support for our commercial
paper program, to repurchase shares of our common stock and for general
corporate purposes.  Up to the equivalent
of $250 million of the credit facility is available for multi-currency
loans.  The interest rate on borrowings
under the credit facility is based on LIBOR or on the higher of prime, which is
the rate of interest publicly announced by the administrative agent, or ½% plus
the Federal funds rate.  We incurred
costs of approximately $0.3 million to establish the facility which will be
amortized over the term of the facility. 
The credit facility has an annual fee of $0.4 million, payable
quarterly, based on our current credit ratings. 
This facility also contains a cross-default provision whereby a failure
to pay other material financial obligations in excess of $50.0 million (after
grace periods and absent a waiver from the lenders) would result in an event of
default and the acceleration of the maturity of any outstanding debt under this
facility.  As of June 30, 2009, we
were in compliance with all related financial and other restrictive covenants,
including limitations on indebtedness and liens, and expect continued
compliance.  The financial covenant of
this facility requires an interest expense coverage ratio of greater than 3:1
as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. 
The interest expense coverage ratio is defined in the credit agreement
as the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA (which does not represent a measure of our
operating results as defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles) to Consolidated Interest Expense and is calculated as stipulated in
the agreement as follows:


Table of
Contents

(1)

In accordance with the credit agreement, this
  period represents the four most recent quarters.

(2)

Excludes amortization of debt discount, and
  derivative and debt issuance costs as they are already included in Interest
  expense, net.

(3)

Includes
  goodwill, intangible asset and other long-lived asset impairments and
  non-cash charges associated with restructuring activities.

In
November 2008, we issued and sold $300.0 million of 7.75% Senior Notes due
November 1, 2013 (“7.75% Senior Notes due 2013”) in a public
offering.  The 7.75% Senior Notes due
2013 were priced at 99.932% with a yield of 7.767%.  Interest payments are required to be made
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1, commencing May 1,
2009.  The net proceeds of this offering
were used to repay then-outstanding commercial paper balances upon their
maturity.

The
purchase price related to the July 2007 acquisition of Ojon Corporation
included (i) a promissory note due July 31, 2009 with a notional
value of $7.0 million and capitalized interest of $0.7 million (present value
of $7.7 million at June 30, 2009), bearing interest at 10.00% due at
maturity and (ii) a promissory note due August 31, 2012 with a
notional amount of $13.5 million and unamortized premium of $1.7 million (present
value of $15.2 million at June 30, 2009), bearing interest at 10.00%
payable annually on July 31.  These
notes were recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at present
value using effective rates of 5.11% and 5.42%, respectively.  The note due July 31, 2009, and the
related interest thereon, was paid subsequent to year-end upon maturity.

We
have a fixed rate promissory note agreement with a financial institution
pursuant to which we may borrow up to $150.0 million in the form of loan
participation notes through one of our subsidiaries in Europe.  The interest rate on borrowings under this
agreement is at an all-in fixed rate determined by the lender and agreed to by
us at the date of each borrowing.  At June 30,
2009, no borrowings were outstanding under this agreement.  Debt issuance costs incurred related to this
agreement were de minimis.

We
have an overdraft borrowing agreement with a financial institution pursuant to
which our subsidiary in Turkey may be credited to satisfy outstanding negative
daily balances arising from its business operations.  The total balance outstanding at any time
shall not exceed 30.0 million Turkish lira ($19.6 million at the exchange rate
at June 30, 2009).  The interest
rate applicable to each such credit shall be up to a maximum of 175 basis
points per annum above the spot rate charged by the lender or the lender’s
floating call rate agreed to by us at each borrowing.  There were no debt issuance costs incurred
related to this agreement.  The outstanding
balance at June 30, 2009 ($12.5 million at the exchange rate at June 30,
2009) is classified as short-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet.  Subsequent to year-end, the borrowing
authorization under this facility was increased to 40.0 million Turkish lira
($26.1 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009).

Our
3.0 billion Japanese yen revolving credit facility expired on March 24,
2009.  This facility was replaced with a
1.5 billion Japanese yen ($15.7 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009)
revolving credit facility that expires on March 31, 2010 and a 1.5 billion
Japanese yen ($15.7 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009)
revolving credit facility that expires on March 31, 2012.  The interest rates on borrowings under these
credit facilities are based on TIBOR (Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate) plus .45%
and .75%, respectively and the facility fees incurred on undrawn balances are
15 basis points and 25 basis points, respectively.  At June 30, 2009, no borrowings were
outstanding under these facilities.

Total
debt as a percent of total capitalization increased to 46% at June 30,
2009 from 42% at June 30, 2008, primarily as a result of the issuance of
the 7.75% Senior Notes due 2013, partially offset by the repayment of
outstanding commercial paper balances. 
Based on our current plans, we do not expect this change to have a
material adverse impact on our future results of operations or liquidity on
both a near-term and long-term basis.


Table of
Contents

Cash Flows

Cash and cash equivalents
have increased significantly as compared with the prior year.  In light of economic conditions during fiscal
2009, we took a defensive approach to preserve our liquidity.  We issued long-term bonds and reduced share
repurchases.

Net cash provided by
operating activities was $696.0 million, $690.1 million and $661.6 million in
fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
The increase in operating cash flows in fiscal 2009 as compared with
fiscal 2008 primarily reflected a decrease in inventory, due in part to ongoing
planned reductions in stock-keeping units, as well as lower accounts receivable
as a result of lower sales and an improvement in days sales outstanding.  These activities were partially offset by
lower net earnings and an increase in income tax receivables as compared with
the prior year, as well as a reduction in cash provided by certain working
capital components, including payments for accounts payable and other
liabilities.  The increase in operating
cash flows from fiscal 2008 as compared with fiscal 2007 primarily reflected a
higher level of cash generated from net earnings before non-cash items such as
depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation.  Approximately $91 million of the change in
deferred income taxes was offset by a correlative change in noncurrent accrued
income taxes reflecting the balance sheet presentation of unrecognized tax
benefits.  These changes were partially
offset by the timing and level of payments on trade payables in North America
and higher accounts receivable levels, primarily reflecting significant sales
growth from our international operations, which carry longer customer payment
terms.

Net cash used for investing
activities was $339.5 million, $478.5 million and $373.8 million in fiscal
2009, 2008 and 2007.  The decrease during
fiscal 2009 primarily reflected lower capital expenditure activity in the
current year and the prior-year acquisition of Ojon Corporation, partially
offset by the current-year acquisitions of AGI and two Aveda distributors.  The increase in cash used for investing
activities during fiscal 2008 as compared with fiscal 2007 primarily reflected
cash payments related to the acquisition of Ojon Corporation and the exclusive
rights to sell and distribute Ojon products worldwide, and to a lesser extent,
the acquisition of an Aveda distributor. 
Capital expenditures also increased from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2008
reflecting incremental spending for counters and the higher costs of technology
related to our continuing company-wide initiative to upgrade our information
systems.

Cash
provided by financing activities was $125.8 million in fiscal 2009 and cash used
for financing activities was $78.1 million and $411.6 million in fiscal 2008
and 2007, respectively.  The fiscal 2009
increase in cash provided by financing activities primarily reflected the
issuance of the $300.0 million Senior Notes due 2013 and a decrease in treasury
stock purchases, partially offset by repayments of outstanding commercial
paper.  The fiscal 2008 increase in cash
used for financing activities primarily reflected higher treasury stock
repurchases in fiscal 2007, which were partially funded by the issuance of
long-term debt.  Also contributing to the
change in net cash used for financing activities was an increase in outstanding
commercial paper, partially offset by lower cash inflows from stock option
exercises.

Dividends

On November 6, 2008, the Board of Directors declared an annual
dividend of $.55 per share on our Class A and Class B Common Stock,
of which an aggregate of $108.4 million was paid on December 17, 2008 to
stockholders of record at the close of business on December 1, 2008.  The annual common stock dividend declared
during fiscal 2008 was $.55 per share, of which an aggregate of $106.6 million
was paid on December 27, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of
business on December 7, 2007.

Pension Plan Funding

Several
factors influence the annual funding requirements for our pension plans.  For the U.S. Qualified Plan, our funding
policy consists of annual contributions at a rate that provides for future plan
benefits and maintains appropriate funded percentages.  Such contribution is not less than the minimum
required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”),
and subsequent pension legislation, and is not more than the maximum amount
deductible for income tax purposes.  For
each international plan, our funding policies are determined by local laws and
regulations.  In addition, amounts
necessary to fund future obligations under these plans could vary depending on
estimated assumptions (as detailed in “

Critical Accounting
Polices and Estimates

”).  The
effect of our pension plan funding on future operating results will depend on
economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, the number of
participants electing to take lump-sum distributions, investment performance
and funding decisions.

The
unprecedented economic downturn during fiscal 2009 created a difficult
investment environment.  For the U.S.
Qualified Plan, we maintain an investment strategy of matching the duration of
the plan assets with the duration of the underlying plan liabilities.  This strategy helped mitigate the negative
effects of the downturn and assisted in maintaining a funded ratio of more than
100% as of June 30, 2009.  For
fiscal 2009 and 2008, there was no minimum contribution to the U.S. Qualified
Plan required by ERISA.  W

e made discretionary contributions
totaling $17.0 million and $25.0 million to

the U.S. Qualified Plan

during fiscal 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  We do not currently

expect to make
cash contributions to the U.S. Qualified Plan during fiscal 2010.  However, as we continue to monitor the
performance of our plan assets, we may decide to make discretionary
contributions.


Table of
Contents

For
fiscal 2009 and 2008, we made benefit payments under our non-qualified domestic
noncontributory pension plan of $8.1 million and $7.7 million,
respectively.  We expect to make benefit
payments under this plan during fiscal 2010 of approximately $8 million.  For fiscal 2009 and 2008, we made cash
contributions to our international defined benefit pension plans of $41.8
million and $35.3 million, respectively. 
We expect to make contributions under these plans during fiscal 2010 of
approximately $32 million.

Commitments and Contingencies

Certain of our business acquisition agreements include “earn-out”
provisions.  These provisions generally
require that we pay to the seller or sellers of the business additional amounts
based on the performance of the acquired business.

Since the
size of each payment depends upon performance of the acquired business, we do
not expect that such payments will have a material adverse impact on our future
results of operations or financial condition.

For
additional contingencies, refer to

“Item 3. Legal
Proceedings.”

Contractual Obligations

The
following table summarizes scheduled maturities of our contractual obligations
for which cash flows are fixed and determinable as of June 30, 2009:

(1)

Includes long-term and short-term debt and the related
projected interest costs, and to a lesser extent, capital lease
commitments.  Interest costs on long-term
and short-term debt are projected to be $76.5 million in fiscal 2010, $75.6
million in each of fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, $60.7 million in fiscal 2013,
$47.6 million in fiscal 2014 and $657.6 million thereafter.  Projected interest costs on variable rate
instruments were calculated using market rates at June 30, 2009.  Refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

(2)

Minimum operating lease commitments only include base
rent.  Certain leases provide for
contingent rents that are not measurable at inception and primarily include
rents based on a percentage of sales in excess of stipulated levels, as well as
common area maintenance.  These amounts
are excluded from minimum operating lease commitments and are included in the
determination of total rent expense when it is probable that the expense has
been incurred and the amount is reasonably measurable.

(3)

Unconditional purchase obligations primarily include
inventory commitments, estimated future earn-out payments, estimated royalty
payments pursuant to license agreements, advertising commitments, capital
improvement commitments, planned funding of pension and other post-retirement
benefit obligations, commitments pursuant to executive compensation
arrangements and obligations related to our cost savings initiatives.  Future earn-out payments and future royalty
and advertising commitments were

estimated based on planned
future sales for the term that was in effect at June 30, 2009, without
consideration for potential renewal periods.

(4)

Refer to Note 8

of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements

for information regarding unrecognized tax benefits.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we

made a cash
payment of $35.0 million to the U.S. Treasury as an advance deposit, which is
not reflected as a reduction to the $78.5 million.

As of June 30, 2009, the noncurrent portion of
our unrecognized tax benefits, including related accrued interest and penalties
was $248.5 million.  At this time, the
settlement period for the noncurrent portion of the unrecognized tax benefits,
including related accrued interest and penalties, cannot be determined and
therefore was not included.

Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities

We
address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk
management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments.  We primarily enter into foreign currency
forward and option contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign
currency exchange rates and interest rate derivatives to manage the effects of
interest rate movements on our aggregate liability portfolio.  We also enter into foreign currency forward
and option contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to mitigate the
change in fair value of specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.  We do not utilize derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  Costs associated with entering into these
derivative financial instruments have not been material to our consolidated
financial results.


Table of
Contents

For
each derivative contract entered into where we look to obtain special hedge
accounting treatment, we formally document all relationships between hedging
instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk-management objective and
strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction, the nature of the risk being
hedged, how the hedging instruments’ effectiveness in offsetting the hedged
risk will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively, and a description of
the method of measuring ineffectiveness. 
This process includes linking all derivatives to specific assets and
liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted
transactions.  We also formally assess,
both at the hedge’s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting
changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.  If it is determined that a derivative is not
highly effective, or that it has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, we will
be required to discontinue hedge accounting with respect to that derivative
prospectively.

Foreign Exchange Risk Management

We
enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge anticipated
transactions, as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign
currencies, for periods consistent with our identified exposures.  The purpose of the hedging activities is to
minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on costs and on the cash
flows that we receive from foreign subsidiaries.  The majority of foreign currency forward
contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries.  We also enter into foreign currency option
contracts to hedge anticipated transactions where there is a high probability
that anticipated exposures will materialize. 
The foreign currency forward contracts entered into to hedge anticipated
transactions have been designated as foreign currency cash-flow hedges and have
varying maturities through the end of June 2010.  Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency
forward contracts is based on a hypothetical derivative methodology and
excludes the portion of fair value attributable to the spot-forward difference
which is recorded in current-period earnings. 
Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency option contracts is based on a
dollar offset methodology.  The ineffective
portion of both foreign currency forward and option contracts is recorded in
current-period earnings.  For hedge
contracts that are no longer deemed highly effective, hedge accounting is
discontinued and gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income
(loss) are reclassified to earnings when the underlying forecasted transaction
occurs.  If it is probable that the
forecasted transaction will no longer occur, then any gains or losses in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to
current-period earnings.  As of June 30,
2009, these foreign currency cash-flow hedges were highly effective, in all
material respects.

At
June 30, 2009, we had foreign currency forward contracts in the amount of
$1,260.8 million.  The foreign currencies
included in foreign currency forward contracts (notional value stated in U.S.
dollars) are principally the British pound ($239.1 million), Euro ($212.5
million), Swiss franc ($206.8 million), Canadian dollar ($168.0 million), Hong
Kong dollar ($79.4 million), Japanese yen ($76.0 million) and Australian dollar
($69.6 million).

Interest Rate Risk Management

We enter into interest
rate derivative contracts to manage the exposure to interest rate fluctuations
on our funded indebtedness and anticipated issuance of debt for periods
consistent with the identified exposures.  We have interest rate swap agreements, with a
notional amount totaling $250.0 million, to effectively convert the fixed rate
interest on our 2017 Senior Notes to variable interest rates based on six-month
LIBOR.  These interest rate swap
agreements are designated as fair value hedges of the related long-term debt
and meet the accounting criteria that permit changes in the fair values of the
interest rate swap agreements to exactly offset changes in the fair value of
the underlying long-term debt.  As of June 30,
2009, these fair-value hedges were highly effective in all material respects.

Credit Risk

As a matter of policy, we only enter into derivative contracts with
counterparties that have at least an “A” (or equivalent) credit rating.  The counterparties to these contracts are
major financial institutions.  Exposure
to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by any of the counterparties is
limited to the gross fair value of contracts in asset positions, which totaled
$41.2 million at June 30, 2009.  To
manage this risk, we have established strict counterparty credit guidelines
that are continually monitored and reported to management.  Accordingly, management believes risk of loss
under these hedging contracts is remote.

Certain of our derivative financial instruments contain
credit-risk-related contingent features. 
As of June 30, 2009, we were in compliance with such features and
there were no derivative financial instruments with credit-risk-related
contingent features that were in a net liability position.


Table of
Contents

Market Risk

We
use a value-at-risk model to assess the market risk of our derivative financial
instruments.  Value-at-risk represents
the potential losses for an instrument or portfolio from adverse changes in
market factors for a specified time period and confidence level.  We estimate value-at-risk across all of our
derivative financial instruments using a model with historical volatilities and
correlations calculated over the past 250-day period.  The high, low and average measured
value-at-risk for the twelve months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 related
to our foreign exchange and interest rate contracts are as follows:

The change in the value-at-risk measures from the prior
year related to our foreign exchange contracts reflected an increase in foreign
exchange volatilities and a different portfolio mix.  The change in the value-at-risk measures from
the prior year related to our interest rate contracts reflected higher interest
rate volatilities.  The model estimates
were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95 percent confidence level.  We used a statistical simulation model that
valued our derivative financial instruments against one thousand randomly
generated market price paths.

Our
calculated value-at-risk exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible
net losses that would be recognized on our portfolio of derivative financial
instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not
necessarily indicative of actual results, which may or may not occur.  It does not represent the maximum possible
loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses
will differ from those estimated, based upon actual fluctuations in market
rates, operating exposures, and the timing thereof, and changes in our
portfolio of derivative financial instruments during the year.

We
believe, however, that any such loss incurred would be offset by the effects of
market rate movements on the respective underlying transactions for which the
derivative financial instrument was intended.

OFF-BALANCE
SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We
do not maintain any off-balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations
or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to
have a material current or future effect upon our financial condition or
results of operations.

RECENTLY
ADOPTED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In
May 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 165, “Subsequent
Events” (“SFAS No. 165”).  SFAS No. 165
requires the disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated
subsequent events for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial
statements and whether that date represents the date the financial statements
were issued or were available to be issued. 
This standard also provides clarification about circumstances under
which an entity should recognize events or transactions occurring after the
balance sheet date in its financial statements and the disclosures that an
entity should make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance
sheet date.  This standard is effective
for interim and annual periods beginning with our fiscal year ended June 30,
2009.  The adoption of this standard did
not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In March 2008, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities — an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133” (“SFAS No. 161”).  SFAS No. 161 requires companies to
provide qualitative disclosures about their objectives and strategies for using
derivative instruments, quantitative disclosures of the fair values of, and
gains and losses on, these derivative instruments in a tabular format, as well
as more information about liquidity by requiring disclosure of a derivative
contract’s credit-risk-related contingent features.  SFAS No. 161 also requires
cross-referencing within footnotes to enable financial statement users to
locate important information about derivative instruments.  We adopted this disclosure-only standard
beginning in our fiscal 2009 third quarter.

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value
Measurements” (“SFAS No. 157”), to clarify the definition of fair value,
establish a framework for measuring fair value and expand the disclosures on
fair value measurements.  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date
(an exit price).  SFAS No. 157 also stipulates that, as a
market-based measurement, fair value measurement should be determined based on
the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or
liability, and establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between (a) market
participant assumptions developed based on market data obtained from sources
independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs) and (b) the
reporting entity’s own assumptions about market participant assumptions
developed based on the best information available in the circumstances
(unobservable inputs).


Table of
Contents

In
February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) No. FAS
157-1, “Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13
and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for
Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13.”  This FSP amends SFAS No. 157 to exclude
certain leasing transactions accounted for under previously existing accounting
guidance.  However, this scope exception
does not apply to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
combination, regardless of whether those assets and liabilities are related to
leases.

In
February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157-2, “Effective Date for
FASB Statement No. 157” (“FSP No. FAS 157-2”).  This FSP permits
the delayed application of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities, as defined in this FSP, except for those that are
recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements at least
annually, until the beginning of our fiscal 2010.  As of July 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157,
with the exception of its application to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial
liabilities, which we will defer in accordance with FSP No. FAS 157-2
until the beginning of fiscal 2010. 
Nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities principally consist of
intangible assets acquired through business combinations, long-lived assets
when assessing potential impairment, and liabilities associated with
restructuring activities.  We are
currently evaluating the impact of the provisions for such nonfinancial assets
and nonfinancial liabilities on our consolidated financial statements.

In
October 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157-3, “Determining the
Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active” (“FSP
No. FAS 157-3”), which clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157 in a
market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key
considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the
market for that financial asset is not active. 
The FSP is effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which
financial statements have not been issued. 
Revisions resulting from a change in the valuation technique or its
application should be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate
following the guidance in SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections” (“SFAS No. 154”). 
However, the disclosure provisions in SFAS No. 154 for a change in
accounting estimate are not required for revisions resulting from a change in
valuation technique or its application. 
We adopted SFAS No. 157 beginning in our fiscal 2009 first quarter.  As part of this adoption, we evaluated the
fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities and determined
that these instruments are valued in active markets.  As such, the guidance in this FSP did not
impact our consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157-4, “Determining Fair
Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have
Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly” (“FSP
No. FAS 157-4”).  This FSP provides
additional guidance for estimating fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 157
when there has been a significant decrease in market activity for a financial
asset.  An entity is required to base its
conclusion about whether a transaction was distressed on the weight of the
evidence presented.  This FSP also
re-affirms that the objective of fair value, when the market for an asset is
not active, is the price that would be received to sell the asset in an orderly
market (as opposed to a distressed or forced transaction).  Additional enhanced disclosures are also
required in accordance with this FSP. 
FSP No. FAS 157-4 must be applied prospectively and is effective
for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009.  The adoption of this standard did not have an
impact on our consolidated financial statements as our financial assets are
currently valued in active markets.

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option
for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS No. 159”), to
permit all entities to choose to elect, at specified election dates, to measure
eligible financial instruments at fair value.  An entity shall report
unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected
in earnings at each subsequent reporting date, and recognize upfront costs and
fees related to those items in earnings as incurred and not deferred. 
SFAS No. 159 became effective for us as of July 1, 2008.  As we
did not elect the fair value option for our financial instruments, the adoption
of this standard did not have an impact on our consolidated financial
statements.

RECENTLY
ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In June 2009, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 168, “The FASB Accounting Standards Codification

TM

and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles” (“SFAS No. 168”). 
SFAS No. 168 establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification

TM

(the “Codification”) as the single source of
authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”)
recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities.  Rules and interpretive releases of the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under authority of
federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative U.S. GAAP for SEC
registrants.  SFAS No. 168 and the
Codification become effective for our September 30, 2009 interim
consolidated financial statements.  We do
not expect SFAS No. 168 or the Codification to have a material impact on
our consolidated financial statements.

In
June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, “Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)” (“SFAS No. 167”).  SFAS No. 167 eliminates the exception to
consolidate a qualifying special-purpose entity, changes the approach to
determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and requires
companies to more frequently re-assess whether they must consolidate variable
interest entities.  Under the new
guidance, the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity is identified
qualitatively as the enterprise that has both (a) the power to direct the
activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the
entity’s economic performance, and (b) the obligation to absorb losses of
the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest
entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially
be significant to the variable interest entity. 
SFAS No. 167 becomes effective for our fiscal 2011 year-end and
interim reporting periods thereafter.  We
do not expect SFAS No. 167 to have a material impact on our consolidated
financial statements.


Table of
Contents

In
April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, “Interim
Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments,” principally to require
publicly traded companies to provide disclosures about fair value of financial
instruments in interim financial information. 
The adoption of this disclosure-only guidance will not have an impact on
our consolidated financial results and is effective beginning with our fiscal
2010 interim period ending September 30, 2009.

In April 2009, the FASB
issued FSP No. FAS 141(R)-1, “Accounting for Assets Acquired and
Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies,”
to require that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
combination that arise from contingencies be recognized at fair value if fair
value can be reasonably determined.  If
the fair value of such assets or liabilities cannot be reasonably determined,
then they would generally be recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting
for Contingencies” and FASB Interpretation No. 14, “Reasonable Estimation
of the Amount of a Loss — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 5.”  This FSP also amends the subsequent
accounting for assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business
combination and certain other disclosure requirements.  This FSP is effective for assets or
liabilities arising from contingencies in business combinations that are
consummated during our fiscal 2010.

In
December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 132(R)-1, “Employers’
Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets” (“FSP No. FAS
132(R)-1”) to require employers to provide additional disclosures about plan
assets of a defined benefit pension or other post-retirement plan.  These disclosures should principally include
information detailing investment policies and strategies, the major categories
of plan assets, the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair
value of plan assets and an understanding of significant concentrations of risk
within plan assets.  While earlier
application of the provisions of this FSP is permitted, the disclosures
required by this FSP shall be provided for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2009 (or our fiscal 2010, the anticipated period of adoption).  Upon initial application, the provisions of
this FSP are not required for earlier periods that are presented for
comparative purposes.

In November 2008,
the FASB ratified the consensus reached on Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”)
Issue No. 08-7, “Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets” (“EITF No. 08-7”).  Defensive intangible assets are assets
acquired in a business combination that the acquirer (a) does not intend
to use or (b) intends to use in a way other than the assets’ highest and
best use as determined by an evaluation of market participant assumptions.  While defensive intangible assets are not
being actively used, they are likely contributing to an increase in the value
of other assets owned by the acquiring entity. 
EITF No. 08-7 will require defensive intangible assets to be
accounted for as separate units of accounting at the time of acquisition and
the useful life of such assets would be based on the period over which the
assets will directly or indirectly affect the entity’s cash flows.  This Issue would be applied prospectively for
defensive intangible assets acquired on or after the beginning of our fiscal
2010, in order to coincide with the effective date of SFAS No. 141
(revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (“SFAS No. 141(R)”).

In
November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on EITF Issue No. 08-6,
“Accounting for Equity Method Investment Considerations” (“EITF No. 08-6”).  EITF No. 08-6 addresses questions about
the potential effect of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - an amendment of ARB No. 51”
(“SFAS No. 160”) on equity-method accounting.  The primary issues include how the initial
carrying value of an equity method investment should be determined, how to
account for any subsequent purchases and sales of additional ownership
interests, and whether the investor must separately assess its underlying share
of the investee’s indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment.  The effective date of EITF No. 08-6
coincides with that of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 and is
to be applied on a prospective basis beginning in our fiscal 2010.  Early adoption is not permitted for entities
that previously adopted an alternate accounting policy.

In April 2008, the FASB
issued FSP No. FAS 142-3, “Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible
Assets” (“FSP No. FAS 142-3”).  This
FSP amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or
extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized
intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”
(“SFAS No. 142”).  This FSP also
adds certain disclosures to those already prescribed in SFAS No. 142.  FSP No. FAS 142-3 becomes effective for
fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning in our
fiscal 2010.  The guidance for
determining useful lives must be applied prospectively to intangible assets
acquired after the effective date.  The
disclosure requirements must be applied prospectively to all intangible assets
recognized as of the effective date.

In December 2007, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R).  SFAS No. 141(R) replaces
SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations,” however, it retains the fundamental
requirements of the former Statement that the acquisition method of accounting
(previously referred to as the purchase method) be used for all business
combinations and for an acquirer to be identified for each business
combination.  SFAS No. 141(R) defines
the acquirer as the entity that obtains control of one or more businesses in
the business combination and establishes the acquisition date as the date that
the acquirer achieves control.  Among
other requirements, SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in
a business combination to recognize the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities
assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their
acquisition-date fair values, with limited exceptions; acquisition-related
costs generally will be expensed as incurred. 
SFAS No. 141(R) requires certain financial statement
disclosures to enable users to evaluate and understand the nature and financial
effects of the business combination.  SFAS No. 141(R) must be
applied prospectively to business combinations that are consummated on or after
July 1, 2009.


Table of
Contents

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 to establish accounting
and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for
the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. 
Among other requirements, SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a
noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary, which is sometimes referred to as
minority interest, is to be reported as a separate component of equity in the
consolidated financial statements.  SFAS No. 160
also requires consolidated net income to include the amounts attributable to
both the parent and the noncontrolling interest and to disclose those amounts
on the face of the consolidated statement of earnings.  SFAS No. 160 must be applied
prospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years,
beginning in our fiscal 2010, except for the presentation and disclosure
requirements, which will be applied retrospectively for all periods presented.

In
December 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on EITF Issue No. 07-1,
“Collaborative Arrangements,” (“EITF No. 07-1”).  This Issue addresses accounting for
collaborative arrangement activities that are conducted without the creation of
a separate legal entity for the arrangement. 
Revenues and costs incurred with third parties in connection with the
collaborative arrangement should be presented gross or net by the collaborators
pursuant to the guidance in EITF Issue No. 99-19, “Reporting Revenue Gross
as a Principal versus Net as an Agent,” and other applicable accounting
literature.  Payments to or from
collaborators should be presented in the income statement based on the nature
of the arrangement, the nature of the company’s business and whether the
payments are within the scope of other accounting literature.  Other detailed information related to the
collaborative arrangement is also required to be disclosed.  The requirements under this Issue must be
applied to collaborative arrangements in existence at the beginning of our
fiscal 2010 using a modified version of retrospective application.  We are currently not a party to significant
collaborative arrangement activities, as defined by EITF No. 07-1.

FORWARD-LOOKING
INFORMATION

We
and our representatives from time to time make written or oral forward-looking
statements, including statements contained in this and other filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in our reports to
stockholders.  The words and phrases “will
likely result,” “expect,” “believe,” “planned,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “anticipate,”
“estimate,” “project,” “intend,” “forecast” or similar expressions are intended
to identify “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
These statements include, without limitation, our expectations regarding
sales, earnings or other future financial performance and liquidity, product
introductions, entry into new geographic regions, information systems
initiatives, new methods of sale, our long-term strategy, restructuring and
other charges and future operations or operating results.  Although we believe that our expectations are
based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our
business and operations, actual results may differ materially from our
expectations.  Factors that could cause
actual results to differ from expectations include, without limitation:

(1) increased
competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and
hair care businesses, some of which have greater resources than we do;

(2) our
ability to develop, produce and market new products on which future operating
results may depend and to successfully address challenges in our business;

(3) consolidations,
restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing
a decrease in the number of stores that sell our products, an increase in the
ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by
our competitors or ownership of competitors by our customers that are retailers
and our inability to collect receivables;

(4) destocking
and tighter working capital management by retailers;

(5) the
success, or changes in timing or scope, of new product launches and the
success, or changes in the timing or the scope, of advertising, sampling and
merchandising programs;

(6) shifts
in the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop for the types of
products and services we sell;

(7) social,
political and economic risks to our foreign or domestic manufacturing,
distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and
trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States;

(8) changes
in the laws, regulations and policies (including the interpretations and
enforcement thereof) that affect, or will affect, our business, including those
relating to our products, changes in accounting standards, tax laws and
regulations, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and
expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a
result;

(9) foreign
currency fluctuations affecting our results of operations and the value of our
foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors
sell products in the same markets and our operating and manufacturing costs
outside of the United States;


Table of
Contents

(10) changes
in global or local conditions, including those due to the volatility in the
global credit and equity markets, natural or man-made disasters, real or
perceived epidemics, or energy costs, that could affect consumer purchasing,
the willingness or ability of consumers to travel and/or purchase our products
while traveling, the financial strength of our customers, suppliers or other
contract counterparties, our operations, the cost and availability of capital
which we may need for new equipment, facilities or acquisitions, the returns
that we are able to generate on our pension assets and the resulting impact on
funding obligations, the cost and availability of raw materials and the
assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates;

(11)
shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs
resulting from disruptions of operations at any of the facilities that
manufacture nearly all of our supply of a particular type of product (i.e.,
focus factories) or at our distribution or inventory centers, including
disruptions that may be caused by the implementation of SAP as part of our
Strategic Modernization Initiative or by restructurings;

(12)
real estate rates and availability, which may affect our ability to increase or
maintain the number of retail locations at which we sell our products and the
costs associated with our other facilities;

(13)
changes in product mix to products which are less profitable;

(14)
our ability to acquire, develop or implement new information and distribution
technologies and initiatives on a timely basis and within our cost estimates;

(15)
our ability to capitalize on opportunities for improved efficiency, such as
publicly-announced restructuring and cost-savings initiatives, and to integrate
acquired businesses and realize value therefrom;

(16)
consequences attributable to the events that are currently taking place in the
Middle East, including terrorist attacks, retaliation and the threat of further
attacks or retaliation;

(17)
the timing and impact of acquisitions and divestitures, which depend on willing
sellers and buyers, respectively; and

(18)
additional factors as described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2009.

We assume no
responsibility to update forward-looking statements made herein or otherwise.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk.

The
information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K under the caption “

Liquidity and Capital
Resources - Market Risk

” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.

The
information required by this item appears beginning on page F-1 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.

Changes in
and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and
Procedures.

Our disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports
that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and
forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer, with assistance from other members of management, have
reviewed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as
of June 30, 2009 and, based on their evaluation, have concluded that
the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of such date.

As part of our Strategic
Modernization Initiative, we anticipate the continued migration of our
operations to SAP, with the majority of our locations being implemented through
fiscal 2012.  Based on management’s
evaluation, the necessary steps have been taken to monitor and maintain
appropriate internal control over financial reporting during this period.


Table of
Contents

There have been no
changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that occurred during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s
report on internal control over financial reporting and the

report of independent registered public
accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting are
incorporated herein from pages F-2 and F-3, respectively.

Item 9B.

Other
Information.

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors,  Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

The
information required by this Item, not already provided herein under

“Item 1. Business — Executive Officers,”

will be included in
our Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “2009
Proxy Statement”).  The 2009 Proxy
Statement will be filed within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2009 and such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation.

The
information required by this Item 11 (Executive Compensation) of Form 10-K
will be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement. 
The 2009 Proxy Statement will be filed within 120 days after the close
of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters.

The
information required by this Item, not already provided under

“Equity Compensation Plan Information”

as set forth below,
will be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement. 
The 2009 Proxy Statement will be filed within 120 days after the close
of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

Equity
Compensation Plan Information

The following
table summarizes the equity compensation plans under which our securities may
be issued as of June 30, 2009 and does not include grants made or
cancelled and options exercised after such date.  The securities that may be issued consist
solely of shares of our Class A Common Stock and all plans were approved
by stockholders of the Company.

Equity
Compensation Plan Information as of June 30, 2009

Plan
  category

Number of
  securities to

be issued upon

exercise of outstanding

options, warrants and

rights

Weighted-average

exercise price of

outstanding options,

warrants and rights

Number of
  securities

remaining available for future

issuance under equity

compensation plans (excluding

securities reflected in the first

column)

Equity compensation plans approved by security
  holders(a)

20,340,352(b)

$43.50(c)

5,353,126(d)

(a)

Includes the
Fiscal 1996 Share Incentive Plan (the “1996 Plan”), Fiscal 1999 Share Incentive
Plan (the “1999 Plan”), Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan
(the “2002 Plan”) and the Non-Employee Director Share Incentive Plan.

(b)

Consists of
18,914,739 shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, 922,479
issuable upon conversion of outstanding Restricted Stock Units, 480,510 upon
conversion of outstanding Performance Share Units (“PSU”) (assuming maximum
payout and approval by the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Company’s Board of
Directors of expected payouts for PSUs vested as of June 30, 2009) and
22,624 upon conversion of Share Units.

(c)

Calculated based
upon outstanding options in respect of 18,914,739 shares of our Class A
Common Stock.

(d)

The 2002 Plan
authorizes the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Board of Directors to grant
shares and benefits other than stock options. 
As of June 30, 2009, there were 5,116,433 shares of Class A
Common Stock available for issuance under the 2002 Plan (subject to the
approval by the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Company’s Board of Directors of
expected payouts for PSUs vested as of June 30, 2009).  Shares underlying grants cancelled, forfeited
or expired under the 1999 Plan may be used for grants under the 2002 Plan.  Shares underlying grants cancelled, forfeited
or expired under the 1996 Plan and certain 1995 Employment Agreements may be
used for grants under the 2002 Plan.  The
Non-Employee Director Share Incentive Plan provides for an annual grant of
options and a grant of either options or stock units to non-employee
directors.  As of June 30, 2009,
there were 236,693 shares available for issuance under the Director Plan.


Table
of Contents

If all of the
outstanding options, warrants, rights, stock units and share units, as well as
the securities available for future issuance, included in the first and third
columns in the table above were converted to shares of Class A Common
Stock as of June 30, 2009, the total shares of Common Stock outstanding
(i.e., Class A plus Class B) would increase 13% to 222,387,612.  In July 2009, options and restricted
stock units in respect of 4,375,163 shares of Class A Common Stock were
cancelled, forfeited or expired and such underlying shares will be available
for future reissuance under the 2002 Plan. 
Of the outstanding options to purchase

18,914,739

shares of Class A Common Stock,
options in respect of 2,661,015 shares are exercisable at a price less than
$32.67, the closing price on June 30, 2009.  Assuming the exercise of in-the-money
options, the total shares outstanding would increase by 1% to 199,355,149.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.

The
information required by this Item will be included in the 2009 Proxy
Statement.  The 2009 Proxy Statement will
be filed within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended June 30,
2009 and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal
Accounting Fees and Services.

The
information required by this Item will be included in the 2009 Proxy
Statement.  The 2009 Proxy Statement will
be filed within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended June 30,
2009 and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules.

(a)

1 and 2. 
Financial Statements and Schedules - See index on Page F-1.

3.
Exhibits:


Table of
Contents







*  Incorporated herein by reference.

†  Exhibit is a management contract or
compensatory plan or arrangement.


Table of
Contents

SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the date indicated.

*
By signing his name hereto, Richard W. Kunes signs this document in the
capacities indicated above and on behalf of the persons indicated above
pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by such persons and filed
herewith.

By

/s/ RICHARD W. KUNES

Richard W. Kunes

(Attorney-in-Fact)


Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All other schedules are
omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is included
in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

F-1

Table of
Contents

Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting

Management
of The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. (including its subsidiaries) (the “Company”)
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rules13a-15(f) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended).

A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements.  Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Under
the supervision of and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer
and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company’s management conducted an
assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on the framework and criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

, issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on this assessment, the Company’s
management has concluded that, as of June 30, 2009, the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting was effective.

F-2

Table
of Contents

Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The
Board of Directors and Stockholders

The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.:

We have audited The Estée
Lauder Companies Inc.’s (the Company) internal control over financial reporting
as of June 30, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects.  Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk.  Our audit also included
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.  We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.  A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements.  Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, The Estée
Lauder Companies Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009, based on criteria
established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the COSO.

We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of The Estée Lauder Companies
Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive
income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended June 30, 2009, and our report dated August 19, 2009 expressed
an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.

F-3

Table of
Contents

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

The
Board of Directors and Stockholders

The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. and subsidiaries (the
Company) as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss),
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30,
2009.  In connection with our audits of
the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement
schedule as listed on the index on page F-1.  These consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States).  Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 30,
2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2009, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), The
Estée Lauder Companies Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30,
2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO), and our report dated August 19, 2009 expressed an unqualified
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

As
discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, effective July 1,
2006, the Company changed their method for quantifying errors based on SEC
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year
Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial
Statements,” and effective June 30, 2007, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans — an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).” 
Also as discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements,
effective July 1, 2007, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards
Board Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.”

F-4

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
EARNINGS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-7

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-8

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 —
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

The
Estée Lauder Companies Inc. manufactures, markets and sells skin care, makeup,
fragrance and hair care products around the world.  Products are marketed under the following
brand names:  Estée Lauder, Aramis,
Clinique, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, M

ž

A

ž

C, Bobbi Brown

,

La Mer

,

Aveda, Jo
Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin™,
grassroots research labs and Ojon.  The
Estée Lauder Companies Inc. is also the global licensee of the Tommy Hilfiger,
Kiton, Donna Karan, Michael Kors, Sean John, Missoni, Daisy Fuentes, Tom Ford
and Mustang brand names for fragrances and/or cosmetics.

NOTE 2 —
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of Consolidation

The
accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of The
Estée Lauder Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”)
as continuing operations, with the exception of the operating results of its
reporting unit that marketed and sold Stila brand products, which have been
reflected as discontinued operations for fiscal 2007.  All significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated.

Certain
amounts in the consolidated financial statements of prior years have been
reclassified to conform to current year presentation for comparative purposes.

In
preparing these consolidated financial statements, the Company has evaluated
events and transactions for potential recognition or disclosure through August 19,
2009, the date the consolidated financial statements were issued.

Management Estimates

The
preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
reported in those financial statements. 
Certain significant accounting policies that contain subjective
management estimates and assumptions include those related to revenue
recognition, inventory, pension and other post-retirement benefit costs,
goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets, income taxes and
derivatives.  Management evaluates its
estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and
other factors, including the current economic environment, and makes
adjustments when facts and circumstances dictate.  Illiquid credit markets, volatile equity,
foreign currency and declines in consumer spending have combined to increase
the uncertainty inherent in such estimates and assumptions.  As future events and their effects cannot be
determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from those
estimates and assumptions.  Changes in
those estimates resulting from continuing changes in the economic environment
will be reflected in the consolidated financial statements in future periods.

Currency Translation and Transactions

All
assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are translated at
year-end rates of exchange, while revenue and expenses are translated at
weighted average rates of exchange for the year.  Unrealized translation gains or losses are
reported as cumulative translation adjustments through other comprehensive
income (loss).  Such adjustments amounted
to $139.1 million of unrealized translation losses, net of tax, in fiscal 2009
and $98.3 million and $53.1 million of unrealized translation gains, net of
tax, in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The
Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge
foreign currency transactions for periods consistent with its identified
exposures.  Accordingly, the Company
categorizes these instruments as entered into for purposes other than trading.

The
accompanying consolidated statements of earnings include net exchange gains
(losses) of $(20.0) million, $3.9 million and $(0.6) million in fiscal 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents include $239.8 million and $66.6 million of short-term
time deposits at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The Company considers all highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

Approximately 20% and 14% of the Company’s
cash and cash equivalents are held by two counterparties.

F-9

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Accounts Receivable

Accounts
receivable is stated net of the allowance for doubtful accounts and customer
deductions of $41.4 million and $26.3 million as of June 30, 2009 and
2008, respectively.  This reserve is based upon the evaluation of
accounts receivable aging, specific exposures and historical trends.

Inventory and Promotional Merchandise

Inventory
and promotional merchandise only includes inventory considered saleable or
usable in future periods, and is stated at the lower of cost or fair-market
value, with cost being determined on the first-in, first-out method.  Cost components include raw materials,
componentry, direct labor and overhead (e.g., indirect labor, utilities,
depreciation, purchasing, receiving, inspection and warehousing) as well as
inbound freight.  Manufacturing overhead
is allocated to the cost of inventory based on the normal production
capacity.  Unallocated overhead during
periods of abnormally low production levels are recognized as cost of sales in
the period in which they are incurred. 
Promotional merchandise is charged to expense at the time the
merchandise is shipped to the Company’s customers.  Included in inventory and promotional
merchandise is an inventory obsolescence reserve, which represents the
difference between the cost of the inventory and its estimated realizable
value, based on various product sales projections.  This reserve is calculated using an estimated
obsolescence percentage applied to the inventory based on age, historical
trends and requirements to support forecasted sales.  In addition, and as necessary, specific
reserves for future known or anticipated events may be established.

Derivative Financial Instruments

The
Company’s derivative financial instruments are recorded as either assets or
liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair value.  All derivatives outstanding as of June 30,
2009 are (i) designated as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset
or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (“fair-value” hedge), (ii) designated
as a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to
be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (“foreign
currency cash-flow” hedge), or (iii) not designated as a hedging
instrument.  Changes in the fair value of
a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair-value hedge that is
highly effective are recorded in current-period earnings, along with the loss
or gain on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged
risk (including losses or gains on unrecognized firm commitments).  Changes in the fair value of a derivative
that is designated and qualifies as a foreign currency cash-flow hedge of a
foreign-currency-denominated forecasted transaction that is highly effective
are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”).  Gains and losses deferred in OCI are then
recognized in current-period earnings when earnings are affected by the
variability of cash flows of the hedged foreign-currency-denominated forecasted
transaction (e.g., when periodic settlements on a variable-rate asset or
liability are recorded in earnings). 
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments not designated as
hedging instruments are reported in current-period earnings.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property,
plant and equipment, including leasehold and other improvements that extend an
asset’s useful life or productive capabilities, are carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation and amortization.

Costs incurred
for computer software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized
during the application development stage and expensed as incurred during the
preliminary project and post-implementation stages.

For financial
statement purposes, depreciation is provided principally on the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the assets ranging from 3 to 40
years.  Leasehold improvements are
amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lives of the
respective leases or the expected useful lives of those improvements.

Investments

The
Company’s investments consist principally of available-for-sale securities and
equity-method investments. 
Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value.  Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of
the related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are excluded from
earnings and are reported as a component of stockholders’ equity until
realized.  Investments in affiliated
companies, which are not controlled by the Company but where the Company has
the ability to exercise significant influence over, are accounted for using the
equity-method where the earnings and losses attributable to the investment are
recorded in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets

Goodwill
is calculated as the excess of the cost of purchased businesses over the fair
value of their underlying net assets. 
Other indefinite-lived intangible assets principally consist of
trademarks.  Goodwill and other
indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized.

F-10

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The
Company assesses goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles at least
annually for impairment as of the beginning of the fiscal fourth quarter, or
more frequently if certain events or circumstances warrant.  The Company tests goodwill for impairment at
the reporting unit level, which is one level below the Company’s operating
segments.  The Company identifies its
reporting units by assessing whether the components of its operating segments
constitute businesses for which discrete financial information is available and
management of each reporting unit regularly reviews the operating results of
those components.  Impairment testing is performed in two steps: (i) the
Company determines impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit
with its carrying value, and (ii) if there is an impairment, the Company
measures the amount of impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of
goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  The impairment test
for indefinite-lived intangible assets encompasses calculating a fair value of
an indefinite-lived intangible asset and comparing the fair value to its
carrying value.  If the carrying value
exceeds the fair value, impairment is recorded.

Testing
goodwill for impairment requires the Company to estimate fair values of
reporting units using significant estimates and assumptions

. 
The assumptions made will

impact the outcome and
ultimate results of the testing.  The
Company uses industry accepted valuation models and set criteria that are
reviewed and approved by various levels of management and, in certain
instances, the Company engages third-party valuation specialists to advise
it.

To determine fair value of the reporting unit, the
Company generally uses an equal weighting of the income and market
approaches.  In certain circumstances,
equal weighting will not be applied if one of these methods may be less
reliable (e.g., only the income approach would be used for reporting units with
existing negative margins).

The Company
believes both approaches are equally relevant and the most reliable indications
of fair value because the fair value of product or service companies is more
dependent on the ability to generate earnings than on the value of the assets
used in the production process.

Under
the income approach, the Company determines fair value using a discounted cash
flow method, estimating future cash flows of each reporting unit, as well as
terminal value, and discounting such cash flows at a rate of return that
reflects the relative risk of the cash flows. 
Under the market approach, the Company utilizes information from
comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment
characteristics as the reporting units, which creates valuation multiples that
are applied to the operating performance of the reporting unit being tested, to
value the reporting unit.  The key
estimates and factors used in these two approaches include, but are not limited
to, revenue growth rates and profit margins based on internal forecasts,
terminal value, the weighted-average cost of capital used to discount future
cash flows and comparable market multiples.

To
determine fair value of other indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company
uses an income approach, the relief-from-royalty method.  This method assumes that, in lieu of
ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to obtain
the rights to use the comparable asset. 
Other indefinite-lived intangible assets’ fair values require significant
judgments in determining both the assets’ estimated cash flows as well as the
appropriate discount and royalty rates applied to those cash flows to determine
fair value.  Changes in such estimates or
the application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly
different results.

Long-Lived Assets

The
Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  When such events or changes in circumstances
occur, a recoverability test is performed comparing projected undiscounted cash
flows from the use and eventual disposition of an asset or asset group to its
carrying value.  If the projected
undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment would
be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value, which is
determined by discounting future cash flows.

Concentration of Credit Risk

The
Company is a worldwide manufacturer, marketer and distributor of skin care, makeup,
fragrance and hair care products. 
Domestic and international sales are made primarily to department
stores, perfumeries and specialty retailers. 
The Company grants credit to all qualified customers and does not
believe it is exposed significantly to any undue concentration of credit risk.

The
Company’s largest customer sells products primarily within the United States
and accounted for $907.3 million, or 12%, $951.4 million, or 12%, and $958.8
million, or 14%, of the Company’s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively.  This customer
accounted for $97.1 million and $109.2 million, or 11%, of the Company’s
accounts receivable at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

F-11

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Revenue Recognition

Revenues
from merchandise sales are recognized upon transfer of ownership, including
passage of title to the customer and transfer of the risk of loss related to
those goods.  In the Americas region,
sales are generally recognized at the time the product is shipped to the
customer and in the Europe, the Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific
regions sales are generally recognized based upon the customer’s receipt.  In certain circumstances, transfer of title
takes place at the point of sale, for example, at the Company’s retail
stores.  Sales at the Company’s retail
stores and online are recognized in accordance with a traditional 4-4-5 retail
calendar, where each fiscal quarter is comprised of two 4-week periods and one
5-week period, with one extra week in one quarter every seven years.  As a result, the retail quarter-end and the
fiscal quarter-end may be different by up to six days.

Revenues
are reported on a net sales basis, which is computed by deducting from gross
sales the amount of actual product returns received, discounts, incentive
arrangements with retailers and an amount established for anticipated product
returns.  The Company’s practice is to
accept product returns from retailers only if properly requested, authorized
and approved.  In accepting returns, the
Company typically provides a credit to the retailer against accounts receivable
from that retailer.  As a percentage of
gross sales, returns were 4.4%, 4.4% and 4.2% in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Payments
to Customers

The
Company records revenues generated from purchase with purchase promotions as
sales and the costs of its purchase with purchase and gift with purchase
promotions as cost of sales.  Certain
other incentive arrangements require the payment of a fee to customers based on
their attainment of pre-established sales levels.  These fees have been recorded as a reduction
of Net sales in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings and were
not material to the results of operations in any period presented.

The Company enters into
transactions related to advertising, product promotions and demonstrations,
some of which involve cooperative relationships with customers.  These activities may be arranged either with
unrelated third parties or in conjunction with the customer.  The Company’s share of the cost of these
transactions (regardless of to whom they were paid) are reflected in Selling,
general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements
of earnings and were approximately $1,074 million, $1,098 million and $978
million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Advertising and Promotion

Global
net expenses for advertising, merchandising, sampling and promotion were
$1,878.8 million, $2,034.6 million and $1,841.9 million in fiscal 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively, and are expensed as incurred.  These amounts include activities relating to
purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions that are reflected in
net sales and cost of sales.  Excluding
the impact of purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions,
advertising, merchandising, sampling and promotion expenses included in
operating expenses were $1,693.1 million, $1,836.1 million and $1,640.9 million
in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Research and Development

Research
and development costs amounted to $81.6 million, $80.9 million and $74.4
million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Research and development costs are expensed
as incurred.

Shipping and Handling

Shipping
and handling expenses of $268.6 million, $284.4 million and $237.9 million in
fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are recorded in Selling, general and
administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings
and include distribution center costs, third party logistics costs and outbound
freight.

Operating Leases

The
Company recognizes rent expense from operating leases with periods of free and
scheduled rent increases on a straight-line basis over the applicable lease
term.  The Company considers lease
renewals in the useful life of its leasehold improvements when such renewals
are reasonably assured.  From time to
time, the Company may receive capital improvement funding from its
lessors.  These amounts are recorded as
deferred liabilities and amortized over the remaining lease term as a reduction
of rent expense.

F-12

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

License Arrangements

The
Company’s license agreements provide the Company with worldwide rights to
manufacture, market and sell beauty and beauty-related products (or particular
categories thereof) using the licensors’ trademarks.  The licenses typically have an initial term
of approximately 3 years to 11 years, and are renewable subject to the Company’s
compliance with the license agreement provisions.  The remaining terms, including the potential
renewal periods, range from approximately 2 years to 21 years.  Under each license, the Company is required
to pay royalties to the licensor, at least annually, based on net sales to
third parties.

Most of the Company’s
licenses were entered into to create new business.  In some cases, the Company acquired, or
entered into, a license where the licensor or another licensee was operating a
pre-existing beauty products business. 
In those cases, intangible assets are capitalized and amortized over
their useful lives based on the terms of the agreement and are subject to
impairment testing if certain events or circumstances indicate a potential
impairment.

Certain license agreements may require minimum royalty
payments, incremental royalties based on net sales levels and minimum spending
on advertising and promotional activities. 
Royalty expenses are accrued in the period in which net sales are
recognized while advertising and promotional expenses are accrued at the time
these costs are incurred.

Stock-Based Compensation

The
Company records stock-based compensation, measured at the fair value of the
award, as an expense in the consolidated financial statements.  Upon the exercise of stock options or the
vesting of restricted stock units and performance share units, the resulting
excess tax benefits, if any, are credited to additional paid-in capital.  Any resulting tax deficiencies will first be
offset against those cumulative credits to additional paid-in capital.  Once the cumulative credits to additional
paid-in capital are exhausted, tax deficiencies will be recorded to the
provision for income taxes.  Excess tax
benefits are required to be reflected as financing cash inflows in the
accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows.

Income Taxes

The
Company accounts for income taxes using an asset and liability approach that
requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the
expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in its
financial statements or tax returns.  The
net deferred tax assets assume sufficient future earnings for their realization,
as well as the continued application of currently anticipated tax rates.  Included
in net deferred tax assets is a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets,
where management believes it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax
assets will not be realized in the relevant jurisdiction.  Based on the Company’s assessments, no
additional valuation allowance is required. 
If the Company determines that a deferred tax asset will not be
realizable, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will result in a reduction
of net earnings at that time.

The
Company adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” on July 1, 2007.  As a
result, the Company recognized an increase in the liability for unrecognized
tax benefits and interest of $13.1 million (after tax) as an adjustment to
opening retained earnings.  The Company
provides tax reserves for Federal, state, local and international exposures
relating to periods subject to audit. 
The development of reserves for these exposures requires judgments about
tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective critical
estimate.  The Company assesses its tax
positions and records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based
upon management’s evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information
available at the reporting dates.  For
those tax positions where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be
sustained, the Company has recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a
greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a tax
authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information.  For those tax positions where it is not
more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has
been recognized in the financial statements.

The Company
classifies applicable interest and penalties as a component of the provision
for income taxes.

Although the
outcome relating to these exposures is uncertain, in management’s opinion
adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for estimable potential
liabilities emanating from these exposures. 
In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks
involves significant uncertainties which render them inestimable.  If actual outcomes differ materially from
these estimates, they could have a material impact on the Company’s
consolidated results of operations.

F-13

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Out-of-period Adjustments

The Company evaluates
out-of-period adjustments based on their impact on the current year statement
of earnings as well as the cumulative effect of adjustments in the current year’s
ending balance sheet.  Out-of-period
adjustments identified and recorded in the accompanying statements of earnings
during fiscal 2009 and 2008 were not material, individually or in the
aggregate, to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for all fiscal
years affected.  In fiscal 2007 and in
accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 108, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when
Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements,” the Company
elected to record a one-time cumulative effect adjustment of $24.2 million to
opening retained earnings to correct errors in certain balance sheet accounts
that arose in previous years.

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards

In
May 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 165, “Subsequent Events” (“SFAS No. 165”).  SFAS No. 165 requires the disclosure of
the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events for potential
recognition or disclosure in the financial statements and whether that date
represents the date the financial statements were issued or were available to
be issued.  This standard also provides
clarification about circumstances under which an entity should recognize events
or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial
statements and the disclosures that an entity should make about events or
transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date.  This standard is effective for interim and
annual periods beginning with the Company’s fiscal year ended June 30,
2009.  The adoption of this standard did
not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities — an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133”
(“SFAS No. 161”).  SFAS No. 161
requires companies to provide qualitative disclosures about their objectives
and strategies for using derivative instruments, quantitative disclosures of
the fair values of, and gains and losses on, these derivative instruments in a
tabular format, as well as more information about liquidity by requiring
disclosure of a derivative contract’s credit-risk-related contingent
features.  SFAS No. 161 also
requires cross-referencing within footnotes to enable financial statement users
to locate important information about derivative instruments.  The Company adopted this disclosure-only
standard beginning in its fiscal 2009 third quarter (see Note 11).

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value
Measurements” (“SFAS No. 157”), to clarify the definition of fair value,
establish a framework for measuring fair value and expand the disclosures on
fair value measurements.  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date
(an exit price).  SFAS No. 157 also stipulates that, as a
market-based measurement, fair value measurement should be determined based on
the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or
liability, and establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between (a) market
participant assumptions developed based on market data obtained from sources
independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs) and (b) the
reporting entity’s own assumptions about market participant assumptions
developed based on the best information available in the circumstances
(unobservable inputs).

In
February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) No. FAS
157-1, “Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13
and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for
Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13.”  This FSP amends SFAS No. 157 to exclude
certain leasing transactions accounted for under previously existing accounting
guidance.  However, this scope exception
does not apply to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
combination, regardless of whether those assets and liabilities are related to
leases.

In
February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157-2, “Effective Date for
FASB Statement No. 157” (“FSP No. FAS 157-2”).  This FSP permits
the delayed application of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities, as defined in this FSP, except for those that are
recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements at least
annually, until the beginning of the Company’s fiscal 2010.  As of July 1, 2008, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 157 (see Note 12), with the exception of its application to
nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, which the Company will defer
in accordance with FSP No. FAS 157-2 until the beginning of fiscal
2010.  Nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities principally consist of intangible assets acquired
through business combinations, long-lived assets when assessing potential
impairment, and liabilities associated with restructuring activities.  The Company is currently evaluating the
impact of the provisions for such nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial
liabilities on its consolidated financial statements.

F-14

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In
October 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157-3, “Determining the
Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active” (“FSP
No. FAS 157-3”), which clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157 in a
market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key
considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the
market for that financial asset is not active. 
The FSP is effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which financial
statements have not been issued. 
Revisions resulting from a change in the valuation technique or its
application should be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate
following the guidance in SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections”
(“SFAS No. 154”).  However, the
disclosure provisions in SFAS No. 154 for a change in accounting estimate
are not required for revisions resulting from a change in valuation technique
or its application.  The Company adopted
SFAS No. 157 beginning in its fiscal 2009 first quarter.  As part of this adoption, the Company
evaluated the fair value measurements of its financial assets and liabilities
and determined that these instruments are valued in active markets.  As such, the guidance in this FSP did not
impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157-4, “Determining Fair
Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have
Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly” (“FSP
No. FAS 157-4”).  This FSP provides
additional guidance for estimating fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 157
when there has been a significant decrease in market activity for a financial
asset.  An entity is required to base its
conclusion about whether a transaction was distressed on the weight of the
evidence presented.  This FSP also
re-affirms that the objective of fair value, when the market for an asset is
not active, is the price that would be received to sell the asset in an orderly
market (as opposed to a distressed or forced transaction).  Additional enhanced disclosures are also
required in accordance with this FSP. 
FSP No. FAS 157-4 must be applied prospectively and is effective
for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009.  The adoption of this standard did not have an
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as its financial
assets are currently valued in active markets.

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option
for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS No. 159”), to
permit all entities to choose to elect, at specified election dates, to measure
eligible financial instruments at fair value.  An entity shall report
unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been
elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date, and recognize upfront
costs and fees related to those items in earnings as incurred and not
deferred.  SFAS No. 159 became effective for the Company as of July 1,
2008.  As the Company did not elect the fair value option for its
financial instruments, the adoption of this standard did not have an impact on
its consolidated financial statements.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In June 2009, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 168, “The FASB Accounting Standards Codification

TM

and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles” (“SFAS No. 168”). 
SFAS No. 168 establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification

TM

(the “Codification”) as the single source of
authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”)
recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities.  Rules and interpretive releases of the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under authority of
federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative U.S. GAAP for SEC
registrants.  SFAS No. 168 and the
Codification become effective for the Company’s September 30, 2009 interim
consolidated financial statements.  The
Company does not expect SFAS No. 168 or the Codification to have a
material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In
June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, “Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)” (“SFAS No. 167”).  SFAS No. 167 eliminates the exception to
consolidate a qualifying special-purpose entity, changes the approach to
determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and requires
companies to more frequently re-assess whether they must consolidate variable
interest entities.  Under the new
guidance, the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity is identified
qualitatively as the enterprise that has both (a) the power to direct the
activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the
entity’s economic performance, and (b) the obligation to absorb losses of
the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest
entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially
be significant to the variable interest entity. 
SFAS No. 167 becomes effective for the Company’s fiscal 2011
year-end and interim reporting periods thereafter.  The Company does not expect SFAS No. 167
to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In April 2009, the FASB
issued FSP No. FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, “Interim Disclosures about Fair
Value of Financial Instruments,” principally to require publicly traded
companies to provide disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in
interim financial information.  The adoption
of this disclosure-only guidance will not have an impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial results and is effective beginning with its fiscal 2010
interim period ending September 30, 2009.

F-15

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In April 2009, the FASB
issued FSP No. FAS 141(R)-1, “Accounting for Assets Acquired and
Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies,”
to require that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
combination that arise from contingencies be recognized at fair value if fair
value can be reasonably determined.  If
the fair value of such assets or liabilities cannot be reasonably determined,
then they would generally be recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting
for Contingencies” and FASB Interpretation No. 14, “Reasonable Estimation
of the Amount of a Loss — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 5.”  This FSP also amends the subsequent
accounting for assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business
combination and certain other disclosure requirements.  This FSP is effective for assets or
liabilities arising from contingencies in business combinations that are
consummated during the Company’s fiscal 2010.

In
December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 132(R)-1, “Employers’
Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets” (“FSP No. FAS
132(R)-1”) to require employers to provide additional disclosures about plan
assets of a defined benefit pension or other post-retirement plan.  These disclosures should principally include
information detailing investment policies and strategies, the major categories
of plan assets, the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair
value of plan assets and an understanding of significant concentrations of risk
within plan assets.  While earlier
application of the provisions of this FSP is permitted, the disclosures
required by this FSP shall be provided for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2009 (or the Company’s fiscal 2010, the anticipated period of adoption).  Upon initial application, the provisions of
this FSP are not required for earlier periods that are presented for
comparative purposes.

In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus
reached on Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 08-7, “Accounting
for Defensive Intangible Assets” (“EITF No. 08-7”).  Defensive intangible assets are assets
acquired in a business combination that the acquirer (a) does not intend
to use or (b) intends to use in a way other than the assets’ highest and
best use as determined by an evaluation of market participant assumptions.  While defensive intangible assets are not
being actively used, they are likely contributing to an increase in the value
of other assets owned by the acquiring entity. 
EITF No. 08-7 will require defensive intangible assets to be
accounted for as separate units of accounting at the time of acquisition and
the useful life of such assets would be based on the period over which the
assets will directly or indirectly affect the entity’s cash flows.  This Issue would be applied prospectively for
defensive intangible assets acquired on or after the beginning of the Company’s
fiscal 2010, in order to coincide with the effective date of SFAS No. 141
(revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (“SFAS No. 141(R)”).

In
November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on EITF Issue No. 08-6,
“Accounting for Equity Method Investment Considerations” (“EITF No. 08-6”).  EITF No. 08-6 addresses questions about
the potential effect of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - an amendment of ARB No. 51”
(“SFAS No. 160”) on equity-method accounting.  The primary issues include how the initial
carrying value of an equity method investment should be determined, how to
account for any subsequent purchases and sales of additional ownership
interests, and whether the investor must separately assess its underlying share
of the investee’s indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment.  The effective date of EITF No. 08-6
coincides with that of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 and is
to be applied on a prospective basis beginning in the Company’s fiscal
2010.  Early adoption is not permitted
for entities that previously adopted an alternate accounting policy.

In April 2008, the FASB
issued FSP No. FAS 142-3, “Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible
Assets” (“FSP No. FAS 142-3”).  This
FSP amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or
extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized
intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”
(“SFAS No. 142”).  This FSP also
adds certain disclosures to those already prescribed in SFAS No. 142.  FSP No. FAS 142-3 becomes effective for
fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning in the Company’s
fiscal 2010.  The guidance for
determining useful lives must be applied prospectively to intangible assets
acquired after the effective date.  The
disclosure requirements must be applied prospectively to all intangible assets
recognized as of the effective date.

In December 2007, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R).  SFAS No. 141(R) replaces
SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations,” however, it retains the fundamental
requirements of the former Statement that the acquisition method of accounting
(previously referred to as the purchase method) be used for all business
combinations and for an acquirer to be identified for each business
combination.  SFAS No. 141(R) defines
the acquirer as the entity that obtains control of one or more businesses in
the business combination and establishes the acquisition date as the date that
the acquirer achieves control.  Among
other requirements, SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in
a business combination to recognize the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities
assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their
acquisition-date fair values, with limited exceptions; acquisition-related
costs generally will be expensed as incurred. 
SFAS No. 141(R) requires certain financial statement
disclosures to enable users to evaluate and understand the nature and financial
effects of the business combination.  SFAS No. 141(R) must be
applied prospectively to business combinations that are consummated on or after
July 1, 2009.

F-16

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 to establish accounting
and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for
the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. 
Among other requirements, SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a
noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary, which is sometimes referred to as
minority interest, is to be reported as a separate component of equity in the
consolidated financial statements.  SFAS No. 160
also requires consolidated net income to include the amounts attributable to
both the parent and the noncontrolling interest and to disclose those amounts
on the face of the consolidated statement of earnings.  SFAS No. 160 must be applied
prospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years,
beginning in the Company’s fiscal 2010, except for the presentation and
disclosure requirements, which will be applied retrospectively for all periods
presented.

In
December 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on EITF Issue No. 07-1,
“Collaborative Arrangements,” (“EITF No. 07-1”).  This Issue addresses accounting for
collaborative arrangement activities that are conducted without the creation of
a separate legal entity for the arrangement. 
Revenues and costs incurred with third parties in connection with the
collaborative arrangement should be presented gross or net by the collaborators
pursuant to the guidance in EITF Issue No. 99-19, “Reporting Revenue Gross
as a Principal versus Net as an Agent,” and other applicable accounting
literature.  Payments to or from
collaborators should be presented in the income statement based on the nature
of the arrangement, the nature of the company’s business and whether the
payments are within the scope of other accounting literature.  Other detailed information related to the
collaborative arrangement is also required to be disclosed.  The requirements under this Issue must be
applied to collaborative arrangements in existence at the beginning of the
Company’s fiscal 2010 using a modified version of retrospective
application.  The Company is currently
not a party to significant collaborative arrangement activities, as defined by
EITF No. 07-1.

NOTE 3 — INVENTORY AND PROMOTIONAL MERCHANDISE

NOTE 4 — PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

The
cost of assets related to projects in progress of $144.9 million and $129.0
million as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is included in their
respective asset categories above. 
Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment was
$240.2 million, $233.9 million and $198.1 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively.  Depreciation and
amortization related to the Company’s manufacturing process is included in Cost
of sales and all other depreciation and amortization is included in Selling,
general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements
of earnings.

F-17

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

During
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company recorded non-cash impairment
charges of $8.5 million to reduce the net carrying value of certain retail
store and counter assets to their estimated fair value, which was determined
based on discounted expected future cash flows. 
Lower than expected operating cash flow performance relative to the affected
assets, restructuring activities, revisions in internal forecasts and the
impact of the current economic environment on their projected future results of
operations indicated that the carrying value of the related long-lived assets
were not recoverable.  These asset
impairment charges primarily related to the Company’s skin care and makeup
businesses in the Americas region and are included in Impairment of intangible
and other long-lived assets in the accompanying consolidated statements of
earnings.

NOTE 5 — GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

During fiscal 2009, the Company acquired Applied Genetics Incorporated
Dermatics (“AGI”), a manufacturer of cosmetics ingredients.  In addition,
the Company acquired businesses engaged in the wholesale distribution and
retail sale of Aveda products.  These
activities were predominantly related to the Company’s skin care and hair care
businesses and resulted in increases to goodwill of $42.5 million and other
intangible assets of $19.9 million as of June 30, 2009.

During
fiscal 2008, the Company acquired Ojon Corporation, which markets and sells
Ojon hair care and skin care products primarily through direct response
television and specialty stores.  In
conjunction with this acquisition, the Company purchased, from an unrelated
party, the exclusive rights to sell and distribute Ojon products
worldwide.  In addition, the Company
acquired a business engaged in the wholesale distribution and retail sale of
Aveda products and recorded goodwill for earn-out payments related to the
acquisition of the Bobbi Brown brand. 
These activities resulted in an increase to goodwill of $51.9 million
and other intangible assets of $85.5 million.

Goodwill

The
Company assigns goodwill of a reporting unit to the product category in which
that reporting unit predominantly operates at the time of its acquisition.  The change in the carrying amount of goodwill
is as follows:

During
the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company concluded that the Darphin
reporting unit met certain indicators triggering an interim impairment review
of goodwill and trademarks.  Those indicators included a decline in recent
operating activities, restructuring activities, revisions in internal forecasts
and an application of the Company’s continued decline in market capitalization
to this reporting unit.  The Company performed an interim impairment test
for goodwill and trademarks as of March 31, 2009 on this reporting
unit.  After adjusting the carrying value
of the trademark (see below), the Company completed step one of the impairment
test for goodwill and concluded that the fair value of the Darphin reporting
unit was in excess of its carrying value including goodwill.

During
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company completed its annual goodwill
impairment test and, due to a continued decline in operating results during the
fourth quarter and additional revisions to internal forecasts, recorded a
goodwill impairment charge related to the Darphin reporting unit of $12.5
million at the exchange rate in effect at that time, primarily in the skin care
product category and in the Europe, the Middle East & Africa
region.  Due to the same factors, the
Company recorded other goodwill impairment charges of $1.8 million, primarily
in the skin care product category and in the Americas region.

Other
Intangible Assets

Other intangible
assets include trademarks and patents, as well as license agreements and other
intangible assets resulting from or related to businesses and assets purchased
by the Company.  Indefinite-lived intangible
assets (e.g., trademarks) are not subject to amortization and are assessed at
least annually for impairment during the fiscal fourth quarter, or more
frequently if certain events or circumstances warrant.  Other intangible assets (e.g., non-compete
agreements, customer lists) are amortized on a straight-line basis over their
expected period of benefit, approximately 5 years to 14 years.  Intangible assets related to license
agreements are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives based
on the term of the respective agreement, currently approximately 10 years.

F-18


THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Other
intangible assets consist of the following:

The
aggregate amortization expense related to amortizable intangible assets for the
years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $11.5 million, $14.0 million
and $6.3 million, respectively.  The
estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal years
is as follows:

As
previously discussed, the Company performed an interim impairment test as of March 31,
2009 for trademarks related to the Darphin reporting unit.  The Company
concluded that the carrying value of the Darphin trademark exceeded its
estimated fair value and, as a result, recognized an impairment charge of $12.3
million at the exchange rate in effect at that time.  This charge was
reflected in the skin care product category and in the Europe, the Middle East &
Africa region.  In addition, during the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the
Company identified a license agreement intangible asset which was tested for
impairment based upon a history of operating losses in excess of projections
and revisions in internal forecasts.  The Company determined that the intangible
asset was impaired and therefore recorded an asset impairment charge of $2.3
million in the fragrance product category and in the Americas region.

During
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company identified intangible assets
related to the Michael Kors license agreement, as well as distributor
relationships and core ingredients technology, to test for impairment due to
lower than expected operating cash flow performances and the impact of the
current economic environment on their projected future operating results.  The Company determined that the intangible
assets were impaired and therefore recorded asset impairment charges of $14.7
million in the fragrance and skin care product categories and in the Americas
region.

The
Company completed its annual impairment test of indefinite-lived intangible
assets during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.  Due to the current economic environment and
revised expectations regarding future net sales generated from the use of Ojon
and Bumble and bumble trademarks, the Company determined that their carrying
values exceeded the estimated fair value, by approximately $9.8 million,
predominantly in the hair care product category and in the Americas
region.  Additionally, during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company wrote-off approximately $1.2 million of
trademarks, primarily in the makeup and skin care product categories and in the
Americas region, which are no longer expected to generate operating cash flows.

NOTE 6 —
ACQUISITION OF BUSINESSES

During fiscal 2009, the Company acquired AGI.  The purchase price
was paid in cash at closing.  During
fiscal 2008, the Company acquired Ojon Corporation.  In conjunction with this acquisition, the
Company purchased, from an unrelated party, the exclusive rights to sell and
distribute Ojon products worldwide.  The
initial purchase price was funded by cash, the issuance of commercial paper and
the issuance of two promissory notes, as described in Note 10.  The purchase agreement also provides for an
additional payment, which is expected to be made in fiscal 2013, contingent
upon the attainment of certain net sales targets of Ojon products.  During fiscal 2007, the Company purchased the
remaining minority equity interests in Bumble and Bumble Products, LLC and
Bumble and Bumble, LLC, which have been accounted for as indefinite-lived
intangible assets.

At
various times during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company also acquired
businesses engaged in the wholesale distribution and retail sale of the Company’s
products in the United States and other countries and made earn-out payments
related to the acquisition of the Bobbi Brown brand.

F-19

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The
aggregate cost for these activities, which includes purchase price, earn-out
payments and acquisition costs, was $68.4 million, $150.8 million, and $61.2
million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The results of operations for each of the
acquired businesses are included in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements commencing with its date of original acquisition.  Pro forma results of operations as if each of
such businesses had been acquired as of the beginning of the year of
acquisition and as of the prior-year period have not been presented, as the
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial results would not have been
material.

NOTE 7 —
CHARGES ASSOCIATED WITH RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES

In an effort to drive down costs and achieve synergies within the organization, in February 2009, the Company announced the implementation of a multi-faceted cost savings program (the “Program”) to position itself to achieve long-term profitable growth.  The Company anticipates the Program will result in related restructuring and other special charges in fiscal 2009 and over the next few fiscal years totaling between $350 million and $450 million before taxes.

The Program focuses on a
redesign of the Company’s organizational structure in order to integrate it in
a more cohesive way and operate more globally across brands and functions.  The principal aspect of the Program is the
reduction of the workforce by approximately 2,000 employees.  Specific actions taken during fiscal 2009
included:

·

Resize and Reorganize the Organization

— The Company began the realignment and
optimization of its organization to better leverage scale, improve productivity
and reduce complexity in each region and across various functions.  This included reduction of the workforce,
which occurred through the consolidation of certain functions through a
combination of normal attrition and job eliminations, and a rationalization of
manufacturing capacity via the scheduled closure of one of the Company’s
manufacturing and assembly plants.

·

Exit Unprofitable Operations

— To improve the profitability in
certain of the Company’s brands and regions, the Company has selectively exited
certain channels of distribution, categories and markets.  In doing so, the Company incurred costs to
reduce workforce, terminate contracts, write off fixed assets and discontinue
certain product lines and stock-keeping units.

·

Outsourcing

— In order to balance the growing need for
information technology support with the Company’s efforts to provide the most
efficient and cost effective solutions, the Company initiated the outsourcing
of certain information technology processes. 
The Company incurred costs to eliminate certain related headcount and to
transition services to an outsource provider.

For the year ended June 30, 2009, aggregate restructuring charges of $70.3 million were recorded in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings related to the Program.  These charges primarily reflected employee-related costs, asset write-offs, contract terminations and other exit costs.

The following table presents the restructuring activity as of and for the year ended June 30, 2009 under the Program:

Accrued restructuring charges at June 30, 2009 are expected to result in cash expenditures funded from cash provided by operations of approximately $48 million, $6 million and $1 million in fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively.

The total amount of restructuring charges incurred plus other initiatives approved through June 30, 2009, include approximately $75 million for employee-related costs, approximately $6 million in asset write-offs and approximately $8 million of contract terminations and other exit costs.

F-20

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Company incurred other special charges in connection with the implementation of the Program for the year ended June 30, 2009 of $10.1 million related to consulting, other professional services, and accelerated depreciation.  The total amount of other special charges expected to be incurred to implement these initiatives, including those incurred through June 30, 2009, is approximately $36 million.  In addition to the other special charges, the Company recorded $8.1 million reflecting sales returns (less a related cost of sales of $1.2 million) and a write-off of inventory associated with exiting unprofitable operations of $8.0 million.

During the year ended June 
;30, 2009, the Company recorded a gain of $3.6 million related to excess accruals that were recorded as other special charges in prior years.

Total charges associated with restructuring activities included in operating income for the year ended June 30, 2009 were $91.7 million.

NOTE 8 —
INCOME TAXES

The
provision for income taxes is comprised of the following:

A reconciliation between
the provision for income taxes computed by applying the statutory Federal
income tax rate to earnings before income taxes and minority interest and the
actual provision for income taxes is as follows:

The $19.2 million benefit
recognized in fiscal 2009, net of tax, resulted from reaching a formal
settlement with the Appeals Division of the IRS concerning disputed U.S.
foreign tax credit determinations.

The state and local tax
benefit of $5.9 million in fiscal 2008 included the favorable resolution of
several state and local income tax examinations as well as statute lapses.

F-21

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Federal income and
foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on approximately $975 million
of undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries at June 30, 2009.  The Company intends to reinvest these
earnings in its foreign operations indefinitely, except where it is able to
repatriate these earnings to the United States without material incremental tax
provision.  As of June 30, 2008 and
2007, the Company had not provided federal income and foreign withholding taxes
on approximately $813 million and $539 million, respectively, of undistributed
earnings of international subsidiaries. 
The determination and estimation of the future income tax consequences
in all relevant taxing jurisdictions involves the application of highly complex
tax laws in the countries involved, particularly in the United States, and is
based on the tax profile of the Company in the year of earnings repatriation.  Accordingly, it is not practicable to
determine the amount of tax associated with such undistributed earnings.

Significant components of
the Company’s deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of June 30,
2009 and 2008 were as follows:

As of June 30, 2009
and 2008, the Company had current net deferred tax assets of $202.7 million and
$184.6 million, respectively, which are included in Prepaid expenses and other
current assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  In addition, the Company had noncurrent net
deferred tax assets of $156.0 million and $55.3 million as of June 30,
2009 and 2008, respectively, which are included in Other assets in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.

As of June 30, 2009
and 2008, certain subsidiaries had net operating loss and other carryforwards
for tax purposes of approximately $96 million and $40 million,
respectively.  With the exception of
$77.4 million of net operating loss and other carryforwards with an indefinite
carryforward period as of June 30, 2009, these carryforwards expire at
various dates through fiscal 2029. 
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, in the amount of $4.2
million and $4.5 million as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, have
been recorded to reflect the tax benefits of the carryforwards not utilized to
date.

A full valuation
allowance has been provided for those deferred tax assets for which, in the
opinion of management, it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets
will not be realized.

Earnings before income
taxes and minority interest include amounts contributed by the Company’s
international operations of approximately $674 million, $905 million and $696
million for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  A portion of these earnings are taxed in the
United States.

As of June 30, 2009
and June 30, 2008, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of
$259.1 million and $199.0 million, respectively.  The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits
that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate was $133.4
million.  The total gross accrued
interest and penalties during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and June 30,
2008 in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings were $17.2 million
and $12.0 million, respectively.  The
total gross accrued interest and penalties in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets at June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008 were $67.9 million
and $54.0 million, respectively.  A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax
benefits is as follows:

F-22

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Included in the balance
of gross unrecognized tax benefits at June 30, 2009 are $72.6 million of
tax positions for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for
which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility.  Because of the impact of deferred tax
accounting, other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of the shorter
deductibility period would not affect the annual effective tax rate but would
accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period.

Earnings from the Company’s
global operations are subject to tax in various jurisdictions both within and
outside the United States.  The Company
is routinely audited and examined in these jurisdictions.  The Company provides tax reserves for U.S.
federal, state, local and international unrecognized tax benefits for periods
subject to audit.  The development of
reserves for these exposures requires judgments about tax issues, potential
outcomes and timing, and is a subjective critical estimate.  The Company assesses its tax positions and
records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon management’s
evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information available at the
reporting dates.  For those tax positions
where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, the
Company has recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50%
likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a tax authority that has full
knowledge of all relevant information. 
For those tax positions where it is not more-likely-than-not that a tax
benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial
statements.  Where applicable, associated
interest and penalties have also been recognized.  Although the outcome related to these
exposures is uncertain, in management’s opinion, adequate provisions for income
taxes have been made for estimable potential liabilities emanating from these
exposures.  In certain circumstances, the
ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involve significant uncertainties which
render them inestimable.  If actual
outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material
impact on the Company’s results of operations.

The
Company is currently undergoing a U.S. federal income tax audit as well as
examinations and controversies in several state, local and international
jurisdictions.  These matters are in
various stages of completion and involve complex multi-jurisdictional issues
common among multinational enterprises, including transfer pricing, that may
require an extended period of time for resolution.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the
IRS completed the examination phase of fiscal years 2002 through 2005.  During fiscal 2008, the Company presented disputed
computations concerning U.S. foreign tax credit determinations to the Appeals
Division of the IRS and a claim was entered pursuant to an administrative
process of the tax treaty between the U.S. and Belgium (commonly referred to as
the “Competent Authority” process). 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company reached a formal
settlement with the Appeals Division.  As
a result of the settlement, the Company has recognized a tax and interest
benefit of $19.2 million, net of tax. 
This benefit favorably impacted the Company’s fiscal 2009 effective tax
rate but had no impact on the amount of unrecognized tax benefits or related
interest.  A resolution of remaining
computations in dispute is subject to the outcome of the Company’s pending Competent
Authority claim.

Notwithstanding
the Company’s pending Competent

Authority claim, the Company reached a tentative
agreement with the IRS concerning the examination adjustments proposed for
fiscal years 2002 through 2005 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  Also in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008,
the Company made a cash payment of $35.0 million to the U.S. Treasury as an
advance deposit in anticipation of a formal resolution to the tentatively
agreed-to adjustments.  Although the
advance deposit limits the accrual of additional interest that would be due to
the U.S. Treasury, there is no impact on the amount of unrecognized tax
benefits until a final agreement is reached. 
Separately, during the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the IRS commenced
an examination of fiscal years 2006 through 2008.

F-23

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Company had
been notified of a disallowance of tax deductions claimed by its subsidiary in
Spain for the fiscal years 1999 through 2002. 
As a result, the subsidiary was reassessed corporate income tax of $2.9
million for this period, at current exchange rates.  An appeal against this reassessment was filed
with the Chief Tax Inspector.  On July 18,
2005, the final assessment made by the Chief Tax Inspector was received,
confirming the reassessment made by the tax auditors.  During fiscal 2006, an appeal against this
final assessment was filed with the Madrid Regional Economic Administrative
Tribunal (“TEAR”).  In view of the TEAR’s
silence, during fiscal 2007 the claim was presumed to be dismissed and an
appeal was filed against it with the Central Economic-Administrative Tribunal (“TEAC”).  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the
TEAC dismissed the claim and, on June 10, 2008, the Company filed an
appeal for judicial review with the National Appellate Court.  During fiscal 2009, the Company completed the
appeal proceedings with the National Appellate Court and awaits the court’s
decision.  While no assurance can be
given as to the outcome in respect of this assessment and pending appeal in the
Spanish courts, management believes it is more-likely-than-not that the
subsidiary will be successful in its defense against the assessment and
continues to measure the full amount of the tax benefit.  Accordingly, no tax reserve has been
established for this potential exposure.

During fiscal 2009,
the Company concluded various state, local and foreign income tax audits and
examinations while several other matters, including those noted above, remained
pending.  On the basis of the information
available in this regard as of June 30, 2009, it is reasonably possible
that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits could decrease in a range of
$30 million to $60 million within 12 months as a result of projected
resolutions of global tax examinations and controversies and a potential lapse
of the applicable statutes of limitations.

The tax years
subject to examination vary depending on the tax jurisdiction.  As of June 30, 2009, the following tax
years remain subject to examination by the major tax jurisdictions indicated:

The Company is
also subject to income tax examinations in numerous other state, local and
foreign jurisdictions.  The Company
believes that its tax reserves are adequate for all years subject to
examination.

NOTE 9 —
OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Other
accrued liabilities consist of the following:

F-24

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 10
— DEBT

The
Company’s short-term and long-term debt and available financing consist of the
following:

As
of June 30, 2009, the Company had outstanding $296.3 million of 2037
Senior Notes consisting of $300.0 million principal and unamortized debt
discount of $3.7 million.  The 2037 Senior
Notes, when issued in May 2007, were priced at 98.722% with a yield of
6.093%.  Interest payments are required
to be made semi-annually on May 15 and November 15.  In April 2007, in anticipation of the
issuance of the 2037 Senior Notes, the Company entered into a series of
forward-starting interest rate swap agreements on a notional amount totaling
$210.0 million at a weighted average all-in rate of 5.45%.  The forward-starting interest rate swap
agreements were settled upon the issuance of the new debt and the Company
recognized a loss in other comprehensive income of $0.9 million that will be
amortized to interest expense over the life of the 2037 Senior Notes.  As a result of the forward-starting interest
rate swap agreements, the debt discount and debt issuance costs, the effective
interest rate on the 2037 Senior Notes will be 6.181% over the life of the
debt.

As
of June 30, 2009, the Company had outstanding $197.5 million of 2033
Senior Notes consisting of $200.0 million principal and unamortized debt
discount of $2.5 million.  The 2033
Senior Notes, when issued in September 2003, were priced at 98.645% with a
yield of 5.846%.  Interest payments are
required to be made semi-annually on April 15 and October 15.  In May 2003, in anticipation of the issuance
of the 5.75% Senior Notes, the Company entered into a series of treasury lock
agreements on a notional amount totaling $195.0 million at a weighted average
all-in rate of 4.53%.  The treasury lock
agreements were settled upon the issuance of the new debt and the Company
received a payment of $15.0 million that will be amortized against interest
expense over the life of the 2033 Senior Notes. 
As a result of the treasury lock agreements, the debt discount and debt
issuance costs, the effective interest rate on the 2033 Senior Notes will be
5.395% over the life of the debt.

F-25

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

As
of June 30, 2009, the Company had outstanding $324.1 million of 2017
Senior Notes consisting of $300.0 million principal, an unamortized debt
discount of $0.4 million, and a $24.5 million adjustment to reflect the fair
value of outstanding interest rate swaps. 
The 2017 Senior Notes, when issued in May 2007, were priced at
99.845% with a yield of 5.570%.  Interest
payments are required to be made semi-annually on May 15 and November 15.  In April 2007, the Company entered into
interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount totaling $250.0 million to
effectively convert the fixed rate interest on its outstanding 2017 Senior
Notes to variable interest rates based on six-month LIBOR.

As
of June 30, 2009, the Company had outstanding $299.8 million of 2013
Senior Notes consisting of $300.0 million principal and an unamortized debt
discount of $0.2 million.  The 2013
Senior Notes, when issued in November 2008, were priced at 99.932% with a
yield of 7.767%.  Interest payments are
required to be made semi-annually on May 1 and November 1.

As
of June 30, 2009, the Company had outstanding $244.2 million of 2012
Senior Notes consisting of $250.0 million principal, an unamortized debt
discount of $0.3 million, and a $5.5 million adjustment to reflect the
remaining termination value of an interest rate swap.  The 2012 Senior Notes, when issued in January 2002,
were priced at 99.538% with a yield of 6.062%. 
Interest payments are required to be made semi-annually on January 15
and July 15.  In May 2003, the
Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of
$250.0 million to effectively convert the fixed rate interest on its
outstanding 2012 Senior Notes to variable interest rates based on six-month
LIBOR.  In April 2007, the Company
terminated this interest rate swap.  The
instrument, which was classified as a liability, had a fair value of $11.1
million at cash settlement, which included $0.9 million of accrued interest
payable to the counterparty.  Hedge
accounting treatment was discontinued prospectively and the offsetting
adjustment to the carrying amount of the related debt will be amortized to
interest expense over the remaining life of the debt.

The purchase price
related to the July 2007 acquisition of Ojon Corporation included (i) a
promissory note due July 31, 2009 with a notional value of $7.0 million
and capitalized interest of $0.7 million (present value of $7.7 million at June 30,
2009), bearing interest at 10.00% due at maturity and (ii) a promissory
note due August 31, 2012 with a notional amount of $13.5 million and
unamortized premium of $1.7 million (present value of $15.2 million at June 30,
2009), bearing interest at 10.00% payable annually on July 31.  These notes were recorded in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet at present value using effective rates of 5.11% and
5.42%, respectively.

The
Company has a $750.0 million commercial paper program under which it may issue
commercial paper in the United States. 
The Company’s commercial paper is currently rated A-1 by Standard &
Poor’s and P-1 by Moody’s.  The Company’s
long-term credit ratings are A with a negative outlook by Standard &
Poor’s and A2 with a stable outlook by Moody’s. 
At June 30, 2009, there was no commercial paper outstanding.

As
of June 30, 2009, the Company had an overdraft borrowing agreement with a
financial institution pursuant to which its subsidiary in Turkey may be
credited to satisfy outstanding negative daily balances arising from its
business operations.  The total balance
outstanding at any time shall not exceed 30.0 million Turkish lira ($19.6
million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009).  The interest rate applicable to each such
credit shall be up to a maximum of 175 basis points per annum above the spot
rate charged by the lender or the lender’s floating call rate agreed to by the
Company at each borrowing.  There were no
debt issuance costs incurred related to this agreement.  The outstanding balance at June 30, 2009
($12.5 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009) is classified as
short-term debt on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.

As
of June 30, 2009, the Company had a fixed rate promissory note agreement
with a financial institution pursuant to which the Company may borrow up to
$150.0 million in the form of loan participation notes through one of its
subsidiaries in Europe.  The interest
rate on borrowings under this agreement is at an all-in fixed rate determined
by the lender and agreed to by the Company at the date of each borrowing.  At June 30, 2009, no borrowings were
outstanding under this agreement.  Debt
issuance costs incurred related to this agreement were de minimis.

As of June 30, 2009,
the Company had a 1.5 billion Japanese yen ($15.7 million at the exchange rate
at June 30, 2009) revolving credit facility that expires on March 31,
2010 and a 1.5 billion Japanese yen ($15.7 million at the exchange rate at June 30,
2009) revolving credit facility that expires on March 31, 2012.  The interest rates on borrowings under these
credit facilities are based on TIBOR (Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate) plus .45%
and .75%, respectively and the facility fees incurred on undrawn balances are
15 basis points and 25 basis points, respectively.  At June 30, 2009, no borrowings were
outstanding under these facilities.

F-26

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The
Company has an undrawn $750.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit
facility that expires on April 26, 2012. 
This facility may be used primarily to provide credit support for the
Company’s commercial paper program, to repurchase shares of its common stock
and for general corporate purposes.  Up
to the equivalent of $250 million of the credit facility is available for
multi-currency loans.  The interest rate
on borrowings under the credit facility is based on LIBOR or on the higher of
prime, which is the rate of interest publicly announced by the administrative
agent, or ½% plus the Federal funds rate. 
The Company incurred costs of approximately $0.3 million to establish
the facility which will be amortized over the term of the facility.  The credit facility has an annual fee of $0.4
million, payable quarterly, based on the Company’s current credit ratings.  This facility also contains a cross-default
provision whereby a failure to pay other material financial obligations in
excess of $50.0 million (after grace periods and absent a waiver from the
lenders) would result in an event of default and the acceleration of the
maturity of any outstanding debt under this facility.  As of June 30, 2009, the Company was in
compliance with all related financial and other restrictive covenants,
including limitations on indebtedness and liens.  The financial covenant of this facility
requires an interest expense coverage ratio of greater than 3:1 as of the last
day of each fiscal quarter.  There are no
other conditions where the lender’s commitments may be withdrawn, other than
certain events of default, as defined in the facility, which are customary for
facilities of this type.

The
Company maintains uncommitted credit facilities in various regions throughout
the world.  Interest rate terms for these
facilities vary by region and reflect prevailing market rates for companies
with strong credit ratings.  During
fiscal 2009 and 2008, the monthly average amount outstanding was approximately
$28.2 million and $17.4 million, respectively, and the annualized monthly
weighted average interest rate incurred was approximately 13.4% and 5.76%,
respectively.

Refer
to Note 14 for the Company’s projected debt service payments over the next five
fiscal years.

NOTE 11
— DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The
Company addresses certain financial exposures through a controlled program of
risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments.  The Company primarily enters into foreign
currency forward and option contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating
foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate derivatives to manage the
effects of interest rate movements on the Company’s aggregate liability
portfolio.  The Company also enters into
foreign currency forward and option contracts, not designated as hedging
instruments, to mitigate the change in fair value of specific assets and
liabilities on the balance sheet.  The
Company does not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or
speculative purposes.  Costs associated
with entering into these derivative financial instruments have not been
material to the Company’s consolidated financial results.

For
each derivative contract entered into where the Company looks to obtain special
hedge accounting treatment, the Company formally documents all relationships
between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management
objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction, the nature of the
risk being hedged, how the hedging instruments’ effectiveness in offsetting the
hedged risk will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively, and a
description of the method of measuring ineffectiveness.  This process includes linking all derivatives
to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm
commitments or forecasted transactions. 
The Company also formally assesses, both at the hedge’s inception and on
an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions
are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of
hedged items.  If it is determined that a
derivative is not highly effective, or that it has ceased to be a highly
effective hedge, the Company will be required to discontinue hedge accounting
with respect to that derivative prospectively.

F-27

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The fair values of the
Company’s derivative financial instruments included in the consolidated balance
sheet as of June 30, 2009 are presented as follows:

(1)

See Note 12 —
Fair Value Measurements for further information about how the fair value of
derivative assets and liabilities are determined.

The
amounts of the gains and losses related to the Company’s derivative financial
instruments designated as hedging instruments for the year ended June 30, 2009 are
presented as follows:

(1)

See Note 18 — Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) for additional information on changes to
other accumulated comprehensive income (loss).

(2)

The amount of gain (loss)
recognized in earnings related to the amount excluded from effectiveness
testing was $1.4 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.  There was no gain (loss) recognized in
earnings related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.

F-28

Table
of Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES
INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(In millions)

Location of Gain or (Loss)

Recognized in Earnings on

Derivatives

Amount of Gain

or (Loss)

Recognized in

Earnings on

Derivatives

(1)

Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging
  Relationships:

Interest rate swap contracts

Interest
  expense, net

$

13.6

(1)

Changes in the
fair values of the interest rate swap agreements are exactly offset by changes
in the fair value of the underlying long-term debt.

The
amounts of the gains and losses related to the Company’s derivative financial
instruments not designated as hedging instruments for the year ended June 30,
2009 are presented as follows:

(In millions)

Location of Gain or (Loss)

Recognized in Earnings on

Derivatives

Amount of

Gain or (Loss)

Recognized in

Earnings on

Derivatives

Derivatives Not Designated as
  Hedging Instruments:

Foreign currency forward contracts

Selling,
  general and administrative

$

(0.7

)

Foreign Currency Cash-Flow Hedges

The
Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge anticipated
transactions, as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign
currencies, for periods consistent with the Company’s identified
exposures.  The purpose of the hedging
activities is to minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on
costs and on the cash flows that the Company receives from foreign
subsidiaries.  The majority of foreign
currency forward contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial
countries.  The Company also enters into
foreign currency option contracts to hedge anticipated transactions where there
is a high probability that anticipated exposures will materialize.  The foreign currency forward contracts
entered into to hedge anticipated transactions have been designated as foreign
currency cash-flow hedges and have varying maturities through the end of June 2010.  Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency
forward contracts is based on a hypothetical derivative methodology and
excludes the portion of fair value attributable to the spot-forward difference
which is recorded in current-period earnings. 
Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency option contracts is based on a
dollar offset methodology.  The
ineffective portion of both foreign currency forward and option contracts is
recorded in current-period earnings.  For
hedge contracts that are no longer deemed highly effective, hedge accounting is
discontinued and gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income (loss)
are reclassified to earnings when the underlying forecasted transaction
occurs.  If it is probable that the
forecasted transaction will no longer occur, then any gains or losses in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to current-period
earnings.  As of June 30, 2009, the
Company’s foreign currency cash-flow hedges were highly effective, in all
material respects.  The estimated net
gain (loss) as of June 30, 2009 that is expected to be reclassified from
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings within the next
twelve months is $10.4 million.

At
June 30, 2009, the Company had foreign currency forward contracts in the
amount of $1,260.8 million.  The foreign
currencies included in foreign currency forward contracts (notional value
stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the British pound ($239.1 million),
Euro ($212.5 million), Swiss franc ($206.8 million), Canadian dollar ($168.0
million), Hong Kong dollar ($79.4 million), Japanese yen ($76.0 million) and
Australian dollar ($69.6 million).

F-29

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

At
June 30, 2008, the Company had foreign currency forward and option
contracts in the amount of $1,229.0 million and $64.9 million,
respectively.  The foreign currencies
included in foreign currency forward contracts (notional value stated in U.S.
dollars) are principally the Euro ($221.6 million), British pound ($220.7
million), Swiss franc ($206.5 million), Canadian dollar ($130.0 million),
Australian dollar ($91.8 million), Russian ruble ($71.9 million) and Japanese
yen ($64.4 million).  The foreign currencies
included in the foreign currency option contracts (notional value stated in
U.S. dollars) are principally the Canadian dollar ($36.8 million) and the South
Korean won ($23.1 million).

Fair Value Hedges

The Company enters into
interest rate derivative contracts to manage its exposure to interest rate
fluctuations on its funded indebtedness and anticipated issuance of debt for
periods consistent with the identified exposures.  The Company has interest rate swap agreements,
with a notional amount totaling $250.0 million, to effectively convert the
fixed rate interest on its 2017 Senior Notes to variable interest rates based
on six-month LIBOR.  These interest rate
swap agreements are designated as fair value hedges of the related long-term
debt and the changes in the fair values of the interest rate swap agreements
are exactly offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying long-term
debt.  As of June 30, 2009, these
fair-value hedges were highly effective in all material respects.  Information regarding the Company’s interest
rate swap agreements is presented in the following table:

Credit Risk

As a matter of policy, the Company only enters into derivative
contracts with counterparties that have at least an “A” (or equivalent) credit
rating.  The counterparties to these
contracts are major financial institutions. 
Exposure to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by any of the counterparties
is limited to the gross fair value of contracts in asset positions, which
totaled $41.2 million at June 30, 2009, of which 42% and 37% were
attributable to two counterparties.  To
manage this risk, the Company has established strict counterparty credit
guidelines that are continually monitored and reported to management.  Accordingly, management believes risk of loss
under these hedging contracts is remote.

Certain of the Company’s derivative financial instruments contain
credit-risk-related contingent features. 
As of June 30, 2009, the Company was in compliance with such
features and there were no derivative financial instruments with
credit-risk-related contingent features that were in a net liability position.

NOTE 12
— FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

The
Company records its financial assets and liabilities at fair value, which is
defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability, in the principal or most advantageous market for the
asset or liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at
the measurement date.  The Company is
required to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable
inputs when measuring fair value.  The
three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are as follows:

Level 1:

Inputs based on quoted
market prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets at the
measurement date.

Level 2:

Observable inputs other than
quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and
liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets
and liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are
observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.

Level 3:

Inputs reflect management’s
best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing the asset or
liability at the measurement date.  The
inputs are unobservable in the market and significant to the instruments
valuation.

F-30

Table
of Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES
INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The
following table presents the Company’s hierarchy for its financial assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of June 30,
2009:

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The
following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of the
Company’s other classes of financial instruments for which it is practicable to
estimate that value:

Cash
and cash equivalents -

The carrying amount approximates fair value,
primarily because of the short maturity of cash equivalent instruments.

Available-For-Sale
Securities

- Available-for-sale securities are generally
comprised of mutual funds and are valued using quoted market prices on an
active exchange.  Available-for-sale
securities are included in investments in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets.

Foreign Currency Forward and Option Contracts -

The fair values
of the Company’s foreign currency forward and option contracts were valued
using pricing models, with all significant inputs derived from or corroborated
by observable market data such as yield curves, currency spot and forward rates
and currency volatilities.

Interest
Rate Swap Contracts -

The fair values of the Company’s outstanding interest rate swap
contracts were determined based on non-binding offers from the counterparties
that are corroborated by observable market data.

Short-term
and long-term debt

- The fair value of the Company’s debt was
estimated based on the current rates offered to the Company for debt with the
same remaining maturities.  To a lesser
extent, debt also includes capital lease obligations for which the carrying
amount approximates the fair value.

The
estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments are as follows:

F-31

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 13
– PENSION, DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND POST-RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS

The
Company maintains pension plans covering substantially all of its full-time
employees for its U.S. operations and a majority of its international
operations.  Several plans provide
pension benefits based primarily on years of service and employees’
earnings.  In certain instances, the
Company adjusts benefits in connection with international employee
transfers.  As of June 30, 2007, the
Company prospectively adopted

SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans - an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 106, and 132(R),”

which requires employers to
recognize a net liability or asset and an offsetting adjustment to accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) to report the funded status of its benefit
plans.  The adoption resulted in a net adjustment of $57.3 million (after
tax) to reduce accumulated other comprehensive income.

Retirement Growth Account Plan (U.S.)

The
Retirement Growth Account Plan is a trust-based, noncontributory qualified
defined benefit pension plan.  The Company’s
funding policy consists of an annual contribution at a rate that provides for
future plan benefits and maintains appropriate funded percentages.  Such contribution is not less than the
minimum required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended, (“ERISA”) and subsequent pension legislation and is not more than the
maximum amount deductible for income tax purposes.

Restoration Plan (U.S.)

The
Company also has an unfunded, non-qualified domestic noncontributory pension
Restoration Plan to provide benefits in excess of Internal Revenue Code
limitations.

International Pension Plans

The
Company maintains International Pension Plans, the most significant of which
are defined benefit pension plans.  The
Company’s funding policies for these plans are determined by local laws and
regulations.  The Company’s most
significant defined benefit pension obligations are included in the plan
summaries below.  Fiscal 2008 plan data
reflects a plan amendment designed to provide certain employees of a particular
affiliate an opportunity to participate in a defined benefit pension plan with
enhanced benefits as compared with their current defined contribution
plan.  In addition, fiscal 2008 plan data
reflects the growth and relative significance of certain other defined benefit
plans.

Post-retirement Benefits

The
Company maintains a domestic post-retirement benefit plan which provides
certain medical and dental benefits to eligible employees.  Employees hired after January 1, 2002
are not eligible for retiree medical benefits when they retire.  Certain retired employees who are receiving
monthly pension benefits are eligible for participation in the plan.  Contributions required and benefits received
by retirees and eligible family members are dependent on the age of the
retiree.  It is the Company’s practice to
fund these benefits as incurred.

Certain
of the Company’s international subsidiaries and affiliates have post-retirement
plans, although most participants are covered by government-sponsored or
administered programs.

F-32

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Plan
Summaries

The
significant components of the above mentioned plans as of and for the years
ended June 30 are summarized as follows:

F-33


THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The
discount rate for each plan used for determining future net periodic benefit
cost is based on a review of highly rated long-term bonds.  The discount rate for the Company’s U.S.
Plans is based on a bond portfolio that includes only long-term bonds with an
Aa rating, or equivalent, from a major rating agency.  The Company believes the timing and amount of
cash flows related to the bonds included in this portfolio is expected to match
the estimated defined benefit payment streams of its U.S. Plans.  In determining the long-term rate of return
for a plan, the Company considers the historical rates of return, the nature of
the plan’s investments and an expectation for the plan’s investment strategies.

F-34

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported
for the health care plans.  The assumed
weighted-average health care cost trend rate for the coming year is 7.96% while
the weighted-average ultimate trend rate of 4.99% is expected to be reached in
approximately 8 years.  A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates for fiscal
2009 would have had the following effects:

Amounts
recognized in accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss (before tax) as of June 30,
2009 are as follows:

Amounts
in accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss expected to be amortized as
components of net periodic benefit cost during fiscal 2010 are as follows:

The
projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of
plan assets for the Company’s pension plans at June 30 are as follows:

F-35

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

International
pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of the plans’ assets
had aggregate projected benefit obligations of $269.6 million and $298.6
million and aggregate fair value of plan assets of $182.6 million and $216.2
million at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  International pension plans with accumulated
benefit obligations in excess of the plans’ assets had aggregate accumulated
benefit obligations of $104.9 million and $95.2 million and aggregate fair
value of plan assets of $44.3 million and $41.4 million at June 30, 2009
and 2008, respectively.

The
target asset allocation policy was set to maximize returns with consideration
to the long-term nature of the obligations and maintaining a lower level of
overall volatility through the allocation to fixed income.  During the year, the asset allocation is
reviewed for adherence to the target policy and is rebalanced periodically
towards the target weights.

401(k) Savings Plan (U.S.)

The
Company’s 401(k) Savings Plan (“Savings Plan”) is a contributory defined
contribution plan covering substantially all regular U.S. employees who have
completed the hours and service requirements, as defined by the plan
document.  Regular full-time employees
are eligible to participate in the Savings Plan thirty days following their
date of hire.  The Savings Plan is subject
to the applicable provisions of ERISA. 
The Company matches a portion of the participant’s contributions after
one year of service under a predetermined formula based on the participant’s
contribution level.  The Company’s
contributions were approximately $20.5 million, $18.7 million and $13.7 million
for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  Shares of the Company’s Class A
Common Stock are not an investment option in the Savings Plan and the Company
does not use such shares to match participants’ contributions.

F-36

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Deferred Compensation

The
Company accrues for deferred compensation and interest thereon, and for the
increase in the value of share units pursuant to agreements with certain key
executives and outside directors.  The
amounts included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets under these
plans were $66.4 million and $67.9 million as of June 30, 2009 and
2008.  The expense for fiscal 2009, 2008
and 2007 was $5.4 million, $9.2 million and $8.5 million, respectively.

NOTE 14
– COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Contractual Obligations

The
following table summarizes scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual
obligations for which cash flows are fixed and determinable as of June 30,
2009:

(1)

Includes long-term and short-term debt and the related
projected interest costs, and to a lesser extent, capital lease
commitments.  Interest costs on long-term
and short-term debt are projected to be $76.5 million in fiscal 2010, $75.6
million in each of fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, $60.7 million in fiscal 2013,
$47.6 million in fiscal 2014 and $657.6 million thereafter.  Projected interest costs on variable rate
instruments were calculated using market rates at June 30, 2009.

Refer to Note 10.

(2)

Minimum operating lease commitments only include base
rent.  Certain leases provide for
contingent rents that are not measurable at inception and primarily include
rents based on a percentage of sales in excess of stipulated levels, as well as
common area maintenance.  These amounts are
excluded from minimum operating lease commitments and are included in the
determination of total rent expense when it is probable that the expense has
been incurred and the amount is reasonably measurable.  Such amounts have not been material to total rent
expense.

Total rental expense included
in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings was $250.6 million in
fiscal 2009, $230.8 million in fiscal 2008 and $201.6 million in fiscal 2007.

(3)

Unconditional purchase
obligations primarily include inventory commitments, estimated future earn-out
payments, estimated royalty payments pursuant to license agreements,
advertising commitments, capital improvement commitments, planned funding of
pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations, commitments pursuant to
executive compensation arrangements and obligations related to the Company’s
cost savings initiatives.  Future
earn-out payments and future royalty and advertising commitments were estimated
based on planned future sales for the term that was in effect at June 30,
2009, without consideration for potential renewal periods.

(4)

Refer to Note 8 for information regarding unrecognized
tax benefits.  During the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2008, the Company

made a cash payment of $35.0 million to the
U.S. Treasury as an advance deposit, which is not reflected as a reduction to
the $78.5 million.

As of June 30, 2009, the noncurrent
portion of the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits, including related accrued
interest and penalties was $248.5 million. 
At this time, the settlement period for the noncurrent portion of the
unrecognized tax benefits, including related accrued interest and penalties,
cannot be determined and therefore was not included.

F-37

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Legal Proceedings

The
Company is involved, from time to time, in litigation and other legal
proceedings incidental to its business. 
Management believes that the outcome of current litigation and legal
proceedings will not have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s results
of operations or financial condition. 
However, management’s assessment of the Company’s current litigation and
other legal proceedings could change in light of the discovery of facts with
respect to legal actions or other proceedings pending against the Company not
presently known to the Company or determinations by judges, juries or other
finders of fact which are not in accord with management’s evaluation of the
possible liability or outcome of such litigation or proceedings.

In
1999, the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York (the “State”)
notified the Company and ten other entities that they had been identified as
potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) with respect to the Blydenburgh
landfill in Islip, New York.  Each PRP
may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and cleanup,
which the State estimated in 2006 to be approximately $19.7 million for all
PRPs.  In 2001, the State sued other PRPs
(including Hickey’s Carting, Inc., Dennis C. Hickey and Maria Hickey,
collectively the “Hickey Parties”), in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of New York to recover such costs in connection with the site, and in September 2002,
the Hickey Parties brought contribution actions against the Company and other
Blydenburgh PRPs.  These contribution
actions seek to recover, among other things, any damages for which the Hickey
Parties are found liable in the State’s lawsuit against them, and related costs
and expenses, including attorneys’ fees. 
In June 2004, the State added the Company and other PRPs as
defendants in its pending case against the Hickey Parties.  In April 2006, the Company and other
defendants added numerous other parties to the case as third-party
defendants.  Settlement negotiations with
the new third-party defendants, the State, the Company and other defendants began
in July 2006 and have resulted in a proposed consent decree to resolve the
case.  The consent decree requires court
approval, which the parties are seeking. 
The Company has accrued an amount which it believes would be necessary
to resolve its share of this matter.  If
the settlement is not successfully completed, the Company intends to vigorously
defend the pending claims.  While no
assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome, management believes that the
resolution of the Blydenburgh matters will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company’s consolidated financial condition.

NOTE 15
– COMMON STOCK

As
of June 30, 2009, the Company’s authorized common stock consists of 650
million shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, and 240
million shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share.  Class B Common Stock is convertible into
Class A Common Stock, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to
time at the option of the holder, on the basis of one share of Class A
Common Stock for each share of Class B Common Stock converted.  Holders of the Company’s Class A Common
Stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of the Company’s Class B
Common Stock are entitled to ten votes per share.

Information
about the Company’s common stock outstanding is as follows:

F-38

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The
Company is authorized by the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 88.0
million shares of Class A Common Stock in the open market or in privately
negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors.  As of June 30, 2009, the cumulative
total of acquired shares pursuant to the authorization was 65.3 million,
reducing the remaining authorized share repurchase balance to 22.7 million.

Accelerated Share Repurchase Program

In
March 2007, the Company repurchased approximately 15,960,800 shares of its
outstanding Class A Common Stock for $750.0 million through an accelerated
share repurchase program with a financial counterparty.  These shares were accounted for as treasury
stock, carried at cost, and reflected as a reduction to stockholders’
equity.  In August 2007, the
financial counterparty informed the Company that it had completed its
obligations under the agreement.  The
per-share price paid by the Company at inception of the program exceeded the
final volume weighted average price per share, as defined by the contract.  Accordingly, the Company received 97,417
shares of its Class A Common Stock from the financial counterparty as a
price adjustment and final settlement, which was recorded as treasury stock and
additional paid-in capital in the fiscal 2008 consolidated balance sheet.

NOTE 16
– STOCK PROGRAMS

As
of June 30, 2009, the Company has two active equity compensation plans
which include the Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan and the
Non-Employee Director Share Incentive Plan (collectively, the “Plans”).  These Plans currently provide for the
issuance of 24,720,200 shares of Class A Common Stock, which consist of
shares originally provided for and shares transferred to the Plans from other
inactive plans and employment agreements, to be granted in the form of
stock-based awards to key employees, consultants and non-employee directors of
the Company.  As of June 30, 2009,
approximately 5,353,100 shares of Class A Common Stock were reserved and
available to be granted pursuant to these Plans.  The Company may satisfy the obligation of its
stock-based compensation awards with either new or treasury shares.  The Company’s equity compensation awards
outstanding at June 30, 2009 include stock options, performance share
units (“PSU”), restricted stock units (“RSU”) and share units.

Total
net stock-based compensation expense is attributable to the granting of, and
the remaining requisite service periods of, stock options, PSUs, RSUs and share
units.  Compensation expense attributable
to net stock-based compensation for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $51.5
million ($34.3 million after tax), $47.2 million ($31.2 million after tax) and
$43.2 million ($28.3 million after tax), respectively.  As of June 30, 2009, the total
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock-based awards was
$35.4 million and the related weighted-average period over which it is expected
to be recognized is approximately 1.8 years.

Stock
Options

A
summary of the Company’s stock option programs as of June 30, 2009 and
changes during the fiscal year then ended, is presented below:

(1)

The intrinsic
value of a stock option is the amount by which the market value of the
underlying stock exceeds the exercise price of the option.

F-39

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The
exercise period for all stock options generally may not exceed ten years from
the date of grant.  Stock option grants
to individuals generally become exercisable in three substantively equal
tranches over a service period of up to four years.  The Company attributes the value of option
awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each
separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance,
multiple awards.

The
per-share weighted-average grant date fair value of stock options granted
during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $17.30, $14.36 and $13.69,
respectively.  The total intrinsic value
of stock options exercised during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $24.7 million,
$33.2 million and $72.3 million, respectively.

The
fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:

Performance
Share Units

During
fiscal 2009, the Company granted 131,000 PSUs, which will be settled in stock
subject to the achievement of the Company’s net sales and net earnings per
share goals for the three years ending June 30, 2011.  Settlement will be made pursuant to a range
of opportunities relative to the net sales and diluted net earnings per common
share targets of the Company and, as such, the compensation cost of the PSU is
subject to adjustment based upon the attainability of these target goals.  No settlement will occur for results below
the applicable minimum threshold and additional shares shall be issued if
performance exceeds the targeted performance goals.  PSUs are accompanied by dividend equivalent
rights that will be payable in cash upon settlement of the PSU.  These awards are subject to the provisions of
the agreement under which the PSUs are granted. 
The PSUs were valued at the closing market value of the Company’s Class A
Common Stock on the date of grant and generally vest at the end of the
performance period. Approximately 27,000 shares of the Company’s Class A Common
Stock are anticipated to be issued, relative to the target goals set at the
time of issuance, in settlement of the 96,100 PSUs that vested as of June 30,
2009.  These awards will be settled in
the first quarter of fiscal 2010, subject to the approval of the Stock Plan
Subcommittee of the Company’s Board of Directors.  In September 2008, 78,400 shares of the
Company’s Class A Common Stock were issued and related accrued dividends were
paid, relative to the target goals set at the time of issuance, in settlement
of 96,600 PSUs which vested as of June 30, 2008.

The
following is a summary of the status of the Company’s PSUs as of June 30,
2009 and activity during the fiscal year then ended:

F-40

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Restricted
Stock Units

The
Company granted approximately 618,500 RSUs during fiscal 2009.  At the time of grant, 344,200 were scheduled
to vest on November 2, 2009, 178,900 on November 1, 2010 and 95,400
on October 31, 2011, all subject to the continued employment or retirement
of the grantees.  Certain RSUs granted in
fiscal 2009 are accompanied by dividend equivalent rights that will be payable
in cash upon settlement of the RSU and, as such, were valued at the closing
market value of the Company’s Class A Common Stock on the date of
grant.  Other RSUs granted in fiscal 2009
are not accompanied by dividend equivalent rights and, as such, were valued at
the closing market value of the Company’s Class A Common Stock on the date
of grant less the discounted present value of the dividends expected to be paid
on the shares during the vesting period.

The
following is a summary of the status of the Company’s RSUs as of June 30,
2009 and activity during the fiscal year then ended:

Share
Units

The Company grants share
units to certain non-employee directors under the Non-Employee Director Share
Incentive Plan.  The share units are
convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock as provided for in that
plan.  Share units are accompanied by
dividend equivalent rights that are converted to additional share units when
such dividends are declared.  The
following is a summary of the status of the Company’s share units as of June 30,
2009 and activity during the fiscal year then ended:

Cash
Units

Certain
non-employee directors defer cash compensation in the form of cash payout share
units, which are not subject to the Plans. 
These share units are classified as liabilities and, as such, their fair
value is adjusted to reflect the current market value of the Company’s Class A
Common Stock.  The Company recorded $0.3
million as compensation income and $0.5 million and $0.8 million as
compensation expense to reflect additional deferrals and the change in the
market value for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

F-41

Table
of Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 17
– NET EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

For
the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, net earnings per common
share (“basic EPS”) is computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding and contingently issuable shares
(which satisfy certain conditions).  Net
earnings per common share assuming dilution (“diluted EPS”) is computed by
reflecting potential dilution from stock-based awards and contingently issuable
shares.

A
reconciliation between the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted
EPS computations is as follows:

As of June 30,
2009, 2008 and 2007, outstanding options to purchase 18.7 million, 7.1 million
and 6.0 million shares, respectively, of Class A Common Stock were not
included in the computation of diluted EPS because their inclusion would be
anti-dilutive.  As of June 30, 2009,
2008 and 2007, 0.2 million of performance share units have been excluded from
the calculation of diluted EPS because the number of shares ultimately issued
is contingent on the achievement of certain performance targets of the Company,
as discussed in Note 16.

F-42

Table
of Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 18
– ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

The
components of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) included in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets consist of the following:

Of
the $1.5 million, net of tax, derivative instrument gain recorded in AOCI at June 30,
2009, $8.7 million, net of tax, related to the October 2003 gain from the
settlement of the treasury lock agreements upon the issuance of the Company’s
5.75% Senior Notes due October 2033, which is being reclassified to
earnings as an offset to interest expense over the life of the debt.  Partially offsetting this gain was $0.5
million, net of tax, related to a loss from the settlement of a series of
forward-starting interest rate swap agreements upon the issuance of the Company’s
6.00% Senior Notes due May 2037, which will be reclassified to earnings as
an addition to interest expense over the life of the debt.  Also partially offsetting the net derivative
instrument gain recorded in OCI was $6.7 million in losses, net of tax, related
to foreign currency forward and option contracts which the Company will
reclassify to earnings during the next twelve months.

Refer
to Note 13 for the discussion regarding the net pension and post-retirement
adjustments.

F-43

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 19
– STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as
follows:

NOTE 20
– SEGMENT DATA AND RELATED INFORMATION

Reportable
operating segments include components of an enterprise about which separate
financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief
operating decision maker (the “Chief Executive”) in deciding how to allocate
resources and in assessing performance. 
As a result of the similarities in the manufacturing, marketing and
distribution processes for all of the Company’s products, much of the
information provided in the consolidated financial statements is similar to, or
the same as, that reviewed on a regular basis by the Chief Executive.  Although the Company operates in one business
segment, beauty products, management also evaluates performance on a product
category basis.

While
the Company’s results of operations are also reviewed on a consolidated basis,
the Chief Executive reviews data segmented on a basis that facilitates
comparison to industry statistics. 
Accordingly, net sales, depreciation and amortization, and operating
income are available with respect to the manufacture and distribution of skin
care, makeup, fragrance, hair care and other products.  These product categories meet the definition
of operating segments and, accordingly, additional financial data are provided
below.  The “other” segment includes the
sales and related results of ancillary products and services that do not fit
the definition of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care.

The
Company evaluates segment performance based upon operating income, which
represents earnings before income taxes, minority interest, net interest
expense and discontinued operations.  The
accounting policies for the Company’s reportable segments are the same as those
described in the summary of significant accounting policies, except for
depreciation and amortization charges, which are allocated, primarily, based
upon net sales.  The assets and
liabilities of the Company are managed centrally and are reported internally in
the same manner as the consolidated financial statements; thus, no additional
information is produced for the Chief Executive or included herein.

F-44

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

F-45

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Company is domiciled in the United States.  Net sales in the United States in fiscal
2009, 2008 and 2007 were $3,020.4 million, $3,276.2 million and $3,224.5
million, respectively.  The Company’s
long-lived assets in the United States at June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007
were $612.3 million, $597.8 million and $520.1 million, respectively.

NOTE 21
– UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

The
following summarizes the unaudited quarterly operating results of the Company
for the years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:

(1)

Fiscal 2009
third quarter results include intangible asset impairment charges of $14.6
million ($13.8 million after tax, or $.07 per diluted common share) and
restructuring and other special charges of $6.2 million ($4.2 million after
tax, or $.02 per diluted common share).

(2)

Fiscal 2009
fourth quarter results include charges associated with restructuring activities
of $85.1 million ($57.2 million after tax, or $.29 per diluted common share),
goodwill, intangible asset and other long-lived asset impairment charges of
$48.5 million ($32.1 million after tax, or $.16 per diluted common share), and
certain out-of-period adjustments of $9.6 million ($3.9 million after tax, or
$.02 per diluted common share).

F-46

Table of
Contents

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

SCHEDULE II – VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Three Years Ended June 30, 2009

(In millions)

(a)

Includes amounts
written-off, net of recoveries.

(b)

Represents actual returns.

S-1


THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

INDEX TO EXHIBITS




*  Incorporated herein by reference.

†  Exhibit is a management contract or
compensatory plan or arrangement.