Item 1. Business.

OVERVIEW

The Mosaic Company is the world’s leading producer and marketer of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. We are the
largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and one of the largest producers and marketers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in the United States. We are the fourth largest producer of potash in the world. Through our broad product
offering, we are a single source supplier of phosphate-and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients. We serve customers in approximately 40 countries. We mine phosphate rock in Florida and process rock into finished phosphate products
at facilities in Florida and Louisiana. We mine potash in Saskatchewan, New Mexico and Michigan. We have other production, blending or distribution operations in Brazil, China, India, Argentina, and Chile, and a strategic equity investment in a
phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region in Peru. Our operations serve the top four nutrient-consuming countries in the world.

The Mosaic
Company is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in March 2004 and serves as the parent company of the business that was formed through the October 2004 combination of IMC Global Inc. and the fertilizer businesses of Cargill, Incorporated. On
May 25, 2011, we consummated the first in a series of transactions intended to result in the split-off and orderly distribution of Cargill, Incorporated’s then approximately 64% equity interest in us through a series of public offerings.
Further information regarding this transaction is described under “Cargill Transaction” in this report. We are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “MOS” and are headquartered in Plymouth,
Minnesota.

We conduct our business through wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries as well as businesses in which we own less than a majority
or a non-controlling interest. We are organized into two reportable business segments: Phosphates and Potash. The following charts show the respective contributions to fiscal 2013 sales volumes, net sales and operating earnings for each of these
business segments:





Phosphates Segment— We are the largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and the largest producer
and marketer of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in the United States. We sell phosphate-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients throughout North America and internationally. Our Phosphates segment also includes our international
distribution activities. Our distribution activities include sales offices, port terminals and warehouses in the United States, Canada, and several other key international countries. In addition,







the international distribution activities include blending, bagging and production facilities in Brazil, China, India, Argentina and Chile. We accounted for approximately 12% of estimated global
production and 59% of estimated North American production of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients during fiscal 2013.

Potash Segment
—We are the fourth-largest producer of potash in the world. We sell potash throughout North America and internationally, principally as fertilizer, but also for use in industrial applications and, to a lesser degree, as animal feed
ingredients. We accounted for approximately 13% of estimated global potash production and 42% of estimated North American potash production during fiscal 2013.

As used in this report:



•“Mosaic” means The Mosaic Company, both before and after the Merger;



•“GNS” means the company known as GNS II (U.S.) Corp. until it was renamed The Mosaic Company in connection with the Merger;



•“MOS Holdings” means the company known as The Mosaic Company until it was renamed MOS Holdings Inc. in connection with the
Merger;



•“we”, “us”, and “our” refer to Mosaic and its direct and indirect subsidiaries,
individually or in any combination;



•“IMC” means IMC Global Inc.;



•“Cargill” means Cargill, Incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination;



•“Cargill Crop Nutrition” means the crop nutrient business we acquired from Cargill in the Combination;



•“Combination” means the October 22, 2004 combination of IMC and Cargill Crop Nutrition;



•“Cargill Transaction” means the transactions described below under “Cargill Transaction”;



•“MAC Trusts” means the Margaret A. Cargill foundation established under the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as
amended, and the Anne Ray Charitable Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended;



•“Merger” means a Merger that occurred on May 25, 2011 as part of the transaction described below under “Cargill
Transaction.” The Merger was between a subsidiary of GNS and MOS Holdings and had the effect of recapitalizing our Common Stock and making GNS the parent company of MOS Holdings. Prior to the Merger, GNS was a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
company then known as The Mosaic Company. In the Merger, all of the outstanding stock of MOS Holdings was converted, on a one-for-one basis, into GNS stock. In connection with the Merger, the company formerly known as The Mosaic Company was renamed
MOS Holdings Inc. and GNS was renamed The Mosaic Company. Following the Merger, our common stock continues to trade under the ticker symbol MOS;



•references in this report to a particular fiscal year are to the twelve months ended May 31 of that year; and



•“tonne” or “tonnes” means a metric tonne or tonnes of 2,205 pounds each unless we specifically state
that we mean short or long tons.







Cargill Transaction

In fiscal 2011, Cargill divested its interest in us in a split-off (the “Split-off”) to its stockholders (the “Exchanging Cargill Stockholders”), including
the MAC Trusts, and a debt exchange (the “Debt Exchange”) with certain Cargill debt holders (the “Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders”). The agreements relating to the Cargill Transaction contemplated an
orderly distribution of the approximately 64% (285.8 million) of our shares that Cargill formerly held. Following the Split-off and Debt Exchange, the MAC Trusts and Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders sold an aggregate of 157.0 million of these
shares in underwritten public secondary offerings or to us. These transactions completed the disposition of shares designated to be sold during the 15-month period following the Split-off.

All other shares (approximately 128.8 million shares in the aggregate) of our Class A Common Stock (“Class A Shares”) received by the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders in the Split-off
are generally subject to transfer restrictions unless we consent. These transfer restrictions are removed as the Class A Shares convert to regular Common Stock. A conversion of the Class A Shares into regular Common Stock would occur in
three equal annual installments beginning on November 26, 2013 or if they are sold in one of the registered public secondary offerings described in the next sentence. In each of the calendar years 2013 through 2015, the MAC Trusts have an
opportunity, from May 26 to June 26, to request that we register these shares for sale in an underwritten public secondary offering that could occur during the period May 26 through October 26. If such a request is made, or if we
voluntarily offer to do so, we would effect such a registration for holders of Class A Shares who elect to participate. The maximum number of shares that would be included in each such offering would be determined by the lead underwriter chosen
by us for such offering.

The agreements relating to the Cargill Transaction continue to restrict our ability to engage in share buybacks
other than self-tender offers to all of our stockholders, including holders of Class A Shares, complying with Rule 13e-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The restriction on share buybacks applies until November 26, 2013. A
self-tender offer would require us to offer the same price to all holders of Class A Shares and Common Stock even though we are prohibited from purchasing Class A Shares at a premium to the volume-weighted average trading price of our
Common Stock for the prior twenty trading days.

After May 26, 2013, we engaged in discussions with Cargill and the MAC Trusts regarding
the disposition of the Class A Shares, including a potential share repurchase transaction. In connection with these discussions, we, with the MAC Trusts' support, requested that Cargill amend the split-off agreement to allow for a negotiated
repurchase of Class A Shares prior to November 26, 2013. After considering the request, Cargill declined to amend the agreement to allow for earlier share repurchases. As a result, we are not permitted to engage in open market or
negotiated share repurchases until after November 26, 2013. The only practical means for holders of the Class A Shares to dispose of their shares prior to that date would be through an underwritten public secondary offering, which could
only be initiated by the MAC Trusts prior to June 26, 2013 or by us thereafter. After considering their alternatives, the MAC Trusts notified us that they would not exercise their first right to request an underwritten public secondary
offering, that would occur during the period May 26, 2013 through October 26, 2013. We look forward to initiating share repurchases after November 26, 2013. At that time, depending on market conditions and sellers' interest, we will
consider the repurchase of shares either in a negotiated transaction with the holders of the Class A Shares or through open market repurchases.

We have included additional information about the Cargill Transaction in Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements and in response to Item 13 of Part III of this report, which information is
incorporated herein by reference, and the principal transaction documents related to the Cargill Transaction are incorporated by reference as exhibits to this report.

Other Business Developments during Fiscal 2013

We continue to execute on our
strategic and other priorities. During fiscal year 2013, we concluded an extensive strategy review, establishing the following strategic priorities: people, growth, market access and innovation in







order to accomplish our ultimate strategic priority of creating value for shareholders. In fiscal 2013, we took the following steps toward achieving our objectives:



•People: Invest in people so that Mosaic is a company where people want to work and grow



•We continue to improve on safety performance, setting a new record low for our injury frequency rate from last fiscal year’s record performance.



•Growth: Grow our production of essential crop nutrients and operate with increasingefficiency



•On March 19, 2013, we entered into a Heads of Agreement with Saudi Arabian Mining Company (“Ma’aden”) and Saudi Basic
Industries Corporation (“SABIC”) under which the parties intend to form a joint venture(the “Northern Promise Joint Venture”)to develop integrated phosphate production
facilities in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We would own 25% of the joint venture and market approximately 25% of the production of the joint venture. When completed, the project is expected to offer an additional source of phosphate crop nutrients
and feed as well as facilitate access to key customers in India and Asia. Completion of a definitive shareholders agreement is ongoing.



•We continued the expansion of capacity in our Potash segment, in line with our view of the long-term fundamentals of increasing global demand in that
business. From the inception of our brownfield expansions, our plans provide for an increase in our annual operational capacity for finished product by approximately five million tonnes. We have deferred construction on approximately two million
tonnes of capacity until such time as construction costs moderate and we believe we are able to achieve higher expected returns on our investment.



•We ended our obligation to supply potash from our Esterhazy mine under a tolling agreement (the “Tolling Agreement”) at the end
of calendar 2012. In addition, effective December 31, 2012, we received credit for 1.2 million tonnes of potash capacity at our Esterhazy mine for purposes of calculating our relative share of annual sales of potash to Canpotex Limited
(“Canpotex”), increasing our allocation from 37.1% to 43.0%. We have been notified by Canpotex that our entitlement is being changed effective July 1, 2013 to approximately 40% as a result of a recent change in the
members’ respective peaking capacities.



•Annual operational capacity at the Miski Mayo mine, of which we own 35% through a joint venture, is expected to reach 3.5 million tonnes by the
end of calendar 2013.



•Market Access: Expand our reach and impact by continuously strengthening our distribution network



•It is important that we have access to distribution facilities in key growing geographies, and we will accomplish that through our distribution
relationships, and our own internal distribution network. For example, we intend to invest up to $300 million in Brazil – a key growth region and strategically important country – over the next five years.



•Innovation: Build on our industry-leading product, process and sustainability innovations



•We set a new record for sales of the premium product MicroEssentials®(“MES”). MES sales increased approximately 28% in the current fiscal year from the prior fiscal year. We believe our premium products provide
us a competitive advantage with customers in North and South America.







•Total Shareholder return: Deliver strong financial performance and provide meaningful returns to our shareholders



•Beginning with the dividend paid in August 2012, we increased our annual dividend 100%, to $1.00 per share, from the level of $0.50 per share announced
in February 2012.



•Fiscal Year Change



•On December 17, 2012, we announced that we will change our fiscal year end to December 31 from May 31. We will begin reporting quarterly
results on a calendar-year basis with the quarter ending on September 30, 2013 and report results for a transition period of June 1 to December 31, 2013. Our first full calendar reporting year will be 2014. Unless otherwise noted,
fiscal year as used in this report refers to the twelve months ended May 31.

We have included additional information
about these and other developments in our business during fiscal 2013 in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“Management’s Analysis”) and in the Notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

The discussion below of our business segment operations should be read in conjunction with the following information that we have included in this
report:



•The risk factors discussed in this report in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”



•Our Management’s Analysis.



•The financial statements and supplementary financial information in our Consolidated Financial Statements (“Consolidated Financial
Statements”). This information is incorporated by reference in this report in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Phosphates Segment

Our Phosphates business segment owns and operates mines and production
facilities in Florida which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and phosphate-based animal feed ingredients, and processing plants in Louisiana which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. Our Phosphates segment’s results
include our international distribution activities in addition to the consolidated results of Phosphate Chemicals Export Association, Inc. (“PhosChem”), a U.S. Webb-Pomerene Act association of phosphate producers which exports
concentrated phosphate crop nutrient products around the world for us and PhosChem’s other member.

U.S. Phosphate Crop Nutrients
and Animal Feed Ingredients

Our U.S. phosphates operations have capacity to produce approximately
4.3 million tonnes of phosphoric acid (“P2O5”)
per year, or about 8% of world capacity and about 46% of North American capacity. Phosphoric acid is produced by reacting finely ground phosphate rock with sulfuric acid. Phosphoric acid is the key building block for the production of high analysis
or concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and animal feed products, and is the most comprehensive measure of phosphate capacity and production and a commonly used benchmark in our industry. Our U.S. phosphoric acid production totaled approximately
3.8 million tonnes during fiscal 2013 and accounted for approximately 9% of estimated global production and 46% of estimated North American output during fiscal 2013.







Our phosphate crop nutrient products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors
and retailers. Our principal phosphate crop nutrient products are:



•Diammonium Phosphate (18-46-0)Diammonium Phosphate (“DAP”) is the most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop
nutrient worldwide. DAP is produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. This initial reaction creates a slurry that is then pumped into a granulation plant where it is reacted with additional ammonia to produce DAP. DAP is a
solid granular product that is applied directly or blended with other solid plant nutrient products such as urea and potash.



•Monoammonium Phosphate (11-52-0)Monoammonium Phosphate (“MAP”) is the second most widely used high-analysis phosphate
crop nutrient and the fastest growing phosphate product worldwide. MAP is also produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia in a reaction vessel. The resulting slurry is then pumped into the granulation plant where it is
reacted with additional phosphoric acid to produce MAP. MAP is a solid granular product that is applied directly or blended with other solid plant nutrient products.



•MicroEssentials®is a value-added
ammoniated phosphate product that is enhanced through a patented process that creates very thin platelets of sulfur and other micronutrients, such as zinc, on the granulated product. The patented process incorporates both the sulfate and elemental
forms of sulfur, providing season long availability to crops.

Production of our animal feed
ingredients products is located at our New Wales, Florida facility. We market our feed phosphate primarily under the leading brand names of Biofos®and Nexfos®.

Our primary phosphate crop nutrient production facilities are located in central Florida and Louisiana. The following map shows the locations of each of
our phosphate concentrates plants in the United States and the locations of each of our active and planned phosphate mines in Florida:











Annual capacity by plant as of May 31, 2013 and production volumes by plant for fiscal 2013 are listed
below:



(tonnes in millions)Phosphoric AcidProcessedPhosphate(a)/DAP/MAP/MicroEssentials®/FeedPhosphateFacilityOperationalCapacity(b)ProductionOperationalCapacity(b)ProductionFlorida:Bartow0.90.92.22.0New Wales1.71.54.13.3Riverview0.90.81.81.83.53.28.17.1Louisiana:Faustina--1.61.1Uncle Sam0.80.6--0.80.61.61.1Total4.33.89.78.2



(a)Our ability to produce processed phosphates has been less than our operational capacity stated in the table above, except to the extent we purchase
phosphoric acid.

(b)Actual production varies from that shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products, maintenance
and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

The phosphoric acid
produced at Uncle Sam is shipped to Faustina, where it is used to produce DAP and MAP. Our Faustina plant also manufactures ammonia that is mostly consumed in our concentrate plants.

We produced approximately 7.6 million tonnes of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients for fiscal 2013 and accounted for roughly 12% of estimated world output and 59% of estimated North American
production.

Phosphate Rock

Phosphate rock is the key mineral used to produce phosphate crop nutrients and feed phosphate. Our phosphate rock production totaled approximately 15.4 million tonnes in fiscal 2013 and accounted for
approximately 8% of estimated world production and 49% of estimated North American production. We are the world’s second largest miner of phosphate rock and currently operate four mines with a combined annual capacity of approximately
16.0 million tonnes. Production of one tonne of DAP requires between 1.6 and 1.7 tonnes of phosphate rock.

All of our wholly owned
phosphate mines and related mining operations are located in central Florida. During fiscal 2013, we operated four active mines: Four Corners, South Fort Meade, Hookers Prairie and Wingate. We plan to develop two large mines at Ona and at DeSoto to
replace mines that will be depleted at various times during the next decade.

The phosphate deposits of Florida are of sedimentary origin and
are part of a phosphate-bearing province that extends from southern Florida north along the Atlantic coast into southern Virginia. Our active phosphate mines are primarily located in what is known as the Bone Valley Member of the Peace River
Formation in the Central Florida Phosphate District. The southern portions of the Four Corners and Wingate mines are in what is referred to as the Undifferentiated Peace River Formation, in which our future Ona and DeSoto mines would also be







located. Phosphate mining has been conducted in the Central Florida Phosphate District since the late 1800’s. The potentially mineable portion of the district encompasses an area
approximately 80 miles in length in a north-south direction and approximately 40 miles in width.

We extract phosphate ore using large surface
mining machines that we own called “draglines.” Prior to extracting the ore, the draglines must first remove a 10 to 50 foot layer of sandy overburden. At our Wingate mine, we also utilize dredges to remove the overburden and mine the ore.
We then process the ore at beneficiation plants that we own at each active mine where the ore goes through washing, screening, sizing and flotation processes designed to separate the phosphate rock from sands, clays and other foreign
materials.Prior to commencing operations at any of our planned future mines, we would need to acquire new draglines or move existing draglines to the mines and, unless the beneficiation plant at an existing mine were used, construct a
beneficiation plant.

The following table shows, for each of our phosphate mines, annual capacity as of May 31, 2013 and rock production
volume and grade for the past three fiscal years:



(tonnes in millions)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)201320122011FacilityProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)Production(d)AverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)Production(d)AverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)Four Corners7.06.464.529.57.464.129.36.765.530.0South Fort Meade5.55.564.229.41.265.630.01.863.729.2Hookers Prairie(e)2.02.065.630.02.165.930.21.865.830.1Wingate1.51.561.828.31.462.828.71.064.629.6Hopewell(f)-------0.266.530.4Total16.015.464.429.512.164.429.511.565.229.8



(a)Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our
products, the quality of the reserves, the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, weather conditions, and other operating conditions, as well as the
effect of recent initiatives intended to improve operational excellence.

(b)Bone Phosphate of Lime (“BPL”) is a traditional reference to the amount (by weight percentage) of calcium phosphate contained
in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher BPL corresponds to a higher percentage of calcium phosphate.

(c)The percent of
P2O5in the above table represents a measure of the phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher
percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body.

(d)Production at the South Fort Meade mine reflects the temporary shutdown during most of the first six months of fiscal 2011 and subsequently reduced
production level for the remainder of that fiscal year and all of fiscal 2012 as a result of the preliminary injunctions entered in connection with court proceedings over the federal wetlands permit for the extension of our South Fort Meade,
Florida, phosphate rock mine into Hardee County (the “Hardee County Extension Permit Litigation”).

(e)We expect to exhaust the Hookers Prairie mine’s reserves in calendar 2014.

(f)The Hopewell mine’s reserves were exhausted in January 2011.

We also purchase phosphate rock. The level of our purchases of phosphate rock in the future will depend upon, among other factors, our phosphate rock mining plans, the status of our permits, our need for
additional phosphate rock to allow us to operate our concentrates plants at or near full capacity, the quality and level of







impurities in the phosphate rock that we mine, and our development or acquisition of additional phosphate rock deposits and mines. Depending on product mix and tonnage requirements, our need for
purchased phosphate rock could increase in the future in order to meet product specifications, particularly as we develop our proposed Ona and DeSoto mines.

Reserves

We estimate our phosphate rock reserves based upon exploration core
drilling as well as technical and economic analyses to determine that reserves can be economically mined. Proven (measured) reserves are those resources of sufficient concentration to meet minimum physical, chemical and economic criteria related to
our current product standards and mining and production practices. Our estimates of probable (indicated) reserves are based on information similar to that used for proven reserves, but sites for drilling are farther apart or are otherwise less
adequately spaced than for proven reserves, although the degree of assurance is high enough to assume continuity between such sites. Proven reserves are determined using a minimum drill hole spacing of two sites per 40 acre block. Probable reserves
have less than two drill holes per 40 acre block, but geological data provides a high degree of assurance that continuity exists between sites.

The following table sets forth our proven and probable phosphate reserves as of May 31, 2013:



(tonnes in millions)Reserve Tonnes(a) 
(b) (c)Average 
BPL(d)% P2O5Active MinesFour Corners52.663.929.2South Fort Meade44.064.429.5Hookers Prairie2.7(e)65.530.0Wingate37.863.228.9Total Active Mines137.163.929.2Planned MiningOna245.563.529.0DeSoto149.6(f)64.629.5Total Planned Mining395.163.929.2Total Mining532.263.929.2



(a)Reserves are in areas that are fully accessible for mining; free of surface or subsurface encumbrance, legal setbacks, wetland preserves and other
legal restrictions that preclude permittable access for mining; believed by us to be permittable; and meet specified minimum physical, economic and chemical criteria related to current mining and production practices.

(b)Reserve estimates are generally established by our personnel without a third party review. There has been no third party review of reserve estimates
within the last five years, except that in fiscal 2008, we engaged a third party to review the recoverable reserves at our Wingate mine’s Tract 2 pursuant to contractual requirements related to our acquisition of these reserves. The reserve
estimates have been prepared in accordance with the standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

(c)Of the reserves shown, 498.7 million tonnes are proven reserves, while probable reserves totaled 33.5 million tonnes.

(d)Average product BPL ranges from approximately 63% to 66%.

(e)Of the tonnes shown at Hookers Prairie, our lease of 0.8 million tonnes requires us to pay royalties of $2.00 per short ton of the reserves that
we mine. In addition, our lease of 0.4 million tonnes requires us to pay royalties between $1.25 to $1.35 per short ton. We estimate that Hookers Prairie mine’s reserves will be exhausted by the end of calendar 2014.







(f)In connection with the sale in 1994 of certain of the surface rights related to approximately 40.7 million tonnes of the reported DeSoto reserves,
we agreed not to mine such reserves until at least 2014. Our current mining plans do not contemplate mining these reserves until at least that time. In addition, in connection with the purchase in 1996 of approximately 108.9 million tonnes of
the reported DeSoto reserves, we agreed to (i) pay royalties of between $0.50 and $0.90 per ton of rock mined based on future levels of DAP margins, (ii) pay to the seller lost income from the loss of surface use to the extent we use the
property for mining related purposes before January 1, 2015 and (iii) re-convey to the seller the lands which are not scheduled to be mined upon completion of the permitting process and the approval of the Development Order for the mine.

We generally own the reserves shown for active mines in the table above, with the only significant exceptions being further
described below:



•We hold the reserves referred to in Note (e) to the above table under leases that we have rights to extend to 2015 and 2022, respectively.



•We own the above-ground assets of the South Fort Meade mine, including the beneficiation plant, rail track and the initial clay settling areas. A
limited partnership, South Ft. Meade Partnership, L.P. (“SFMP”), owns the majority of the mineable acres shown in the table for the South Fort Meade mine.



•We currently have a 94% economic interest in the profits and losses of SFMP. SFMP is included as a consolidated subsidiary in our financial statements.



•We have a long-term mineral lease with SFMP. This lease expires on the earlier of December 31, 2025 or on the date that we have completed mining
and reclamation obligations associated with the leased property. Lease provisions include royalty payments and a commitment to give mining priority to the South Fort Meade phosphate reserves. We pay the partnership a royalty on each tonne mined and
shipped from the areas that we lease from it. Royalty payments to SFMP averaged approximately $6 million annually over the last three fiscal years ended May 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.



•Through its arrangements with us, SFMP also earns income from mineral lease payments, agricultural lease payments and interest income, and uses those
proceeds primarily to pay dividends to its equity owners.



•The surface rights to approximately 882 acres for the South Fort Meade Mine are owned by SFMP, while the U.S. government owns the mineral rights
beneath. We control the rights to mine these reserves under a mining lease agreement and pay royalties on the tonnage extracted. Under the lease, we paid $1.5 million in royalties to the U.S. government in fiscal 2013.

In light of the long-term nature of our rights to our reserves, we expect to be able to mine all reported reserves that are not currently owned prior to
termination or expiration of our rights. Additional information regarding permitting is included in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, under “Environmental, Health and Safety Matters—Operating Requirements and Permitting”
in our Management’s Analysis, and under “Phosphate Mine Permitting in Florida” in Note 21 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Investments in Joint Ventures

We have a 35% economic interest in a joint venture,
which owns a phosphate rock mine (the “Miski Mayo Mine”) in the Bayovar region of Peru. Our investment in the Miski Mayo Mine and related commercial offtake supply agreement to purchase a share of the phosphate rock from the
Miski Mayo Mine reduces our purchases of phosphate rock from other suppliers. The Miski Mayo Mine’s annual production capacity is expected to be 3.9 million tonnes when fully operational.







Sulfur

We use
molten sulfur at our phosphates concentrates plants to produce sulfuric acid primarily for use in our production of phosphoric acid. We purchased approximately 3.5 million long tons of sulfur during fiscal 2013. We purchase most of this sulfur
from North American oil and natural gas refiners who are required to remove or recover sulfur during the refining process. Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately 0.40 long tons of sulfur. We procure our sulfur from multiple sources
and receive it by truck, rail, barge and vessel, either direct to our phosphate plants or have it sent for gathering to terminals that are located on the US gulf coast.

We own and operate sulfur terminals in Houston, Texas and Riverview, Florida. We also lease terminal space in Tampa, Florida and Galveston and Beaumont, Texas. We own two ocean-going barges and contract
for operation of another ocean-going vessel that transport molten sulfur from the Texas terminals to Tampa and then onward by truck to our Florida phosphate plants. In addition, we own a 50% equity interest in Gulf Sulphur Services Ltd., LLLP
(“Gulf Sulphur Services”), which is operated by our joint venture partner. Gulf Sulphur Services has a large sulfur transportation and terminaling business in the Gulf of Mexico, and handles these functions for a substantial
portion of our Florida sulfur volume. Gulf Sulphur Services’ capabilities include melting solid sulfur into the molten form that we use, which permits us to access sources of solid as well as molten sulfur. We further round out our sulfur
logistic assets with a large fleet of leased railcars that supplement our marine sulfur logistic system. Our Louisiana operations are served by truck, rail and barge from nearby refineries.

Although sulfur is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphate facilities by a variety of means, sulfur is an important raw material used in our business that
has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing and availability. Alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a
disruption to current transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of sulfur or disruptions to sulfur transportation or terminaling facilities could have a material impact on our business. We have included a discussion of sulfur
prices in our Management’s Analysis.

Ammonia

We use ammonia together with phosphoric acid to produce DAP, MAP and MES. We used approximately 1.4 million tonnes of ammonia during fiscal 2013. Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately
0.23 tonnes of ammonia.

Our Florida ammonia needs are supplied by offshore producers, under multi-year contracts. Ammonia for our New Wales
and Riverview plants is terminaled through an ammonia facility at Port Sutton, Florida that we lease for a term expiring in calendar 2013, which we may extend for up to five additional years. A third party operates







the Port Sutton ammonia facility pursuant to an agreement that expires in calendar 2013, which we may extend for an unlimited number of additional five year terms, as long as we or the other
party is entitled to operate the ammonia facility. Ammonia for our Bartow plant is terminaled through another ammonia facility owned and operated by a third party at Port Sutton, Florida pursuant to an agreement that expires in calendar 2015.
Ammonia is transported by pipeline from the terminals to our production facilities. We recently renewed the service agreements with the operators of the pipelines for Bartow, New Wales, and Riverview, which provide service through June 30, 2015
and may be extended in one year increments unless either party objects.

We produce ammonia at Faustina, Louisiana primarily for our own
consumption. We have also begun front-end engineering and design work on a potential ammonia production plant at our existing Faustina site, which would substantially increase our capacity, allowing us to meet a significant portion of our internal
needs. From time to time we sell surplus ammonia to unrelated parties.

Although ammonia is readily available from many different suppliers
and can be transported to our phosphates facilities by a variety of means, ammonia is an important raw material used in our business that has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing, and alternative transportation
and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of ammonia or disruptions to ammonia
transportation or terminaling could have a material impact on our business. We have included a discussion of ammonia prices in our Management’s Analysis.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is the primary raw material used to manufacture ammonia.
At our Faustina facility, ammonia is manufactured on site. The majority of natural gas is purchased through firm delivery contracts based on published index-based prices and is sourced from Texas and Louisiana via pipelines interconnected to the
Henry Hub. We use over-the-counter swap and/or option contracts to forward price portions of future gas purchases. The portions of gas purchases not forward priced are purchased at the index based prices or at domestic spot market prices under
short-term contracts. On average, we purchase approximately 18 million MMbtu of natural gas per year for use in ammonia production at Faustina.

Because our ammonia requirements for our Florida operations are purchased rather than manufactured on site, we purchase on average approximately two million MMbtu of natural gas per year in Florida only
as a thermal fuel for various production processes.

Florida Land Holdings

We are a significant landowner in the State of Florida, which in the future is expected to return to its historical status as one of the fastest areas of
population growth in the United States. We own land comprising approximately 255,000 acres held in fee simple title in central Florida, and have the right to mine additional properties which contain phosphate rock reserves. Some of our land
holdings are needed to operate our Phosphates business, while a portion of our land assets, such as reclaimed properties, are not related to our operations. As a general matter, more of our reclaimed property becomes available for uses other than
for phosphate operations each year. Our land assets are generally comprised of concentrates plants, port facilities, phosphate mines and other property which we have acquired through our presence in Florida. We are currently taking initial
steps as part of a long-term future land use strategy to optimize the value of our land assets. For example, during fiscal 2011 we began development of Streamsong, a destination resort and conference center, in an area of previously mined land as
part of our long-term business strategy to maximize the value and utility of our extensive land holdings in Florida. In addition to the two golf courses and clubhouse that were opened in fiscal year 2013, the resort and conference center are
expected to be completed in calendar 2014.







International Production

Our international operations include production in Brazil and Argentina. Our production facilities include plants that produce up to 740,000 tonnes per year of single superphosphate
(“SSP”) and granulated SSP crop nutrients by mixing sulfuric acid with phosphate rock purchased from unrelated third party and the Miski Mayo Mine.

Potash Segment

We are one of the leading potash producers in the
world. We mine and process potash in Canada and the United States and sell potash in North America and internationally. The term “potash” applies generally to the common salts of potassium. Muriate of potash (“MOP”)
is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry. Red MOP has traces of iron oxide. The granular and standard grade Red MOP products are well suited for direct fertilizer application and bulk blending. White MOP has a higher percent
potassium oxide (“K2O”). White MOP, besides being well suited for the agricultural market, is used in many industrial applications.

Our potash products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors and retailers and are also used in the manufacture of mixed crop nutrients and, to a lesser extent, in animal feed
ingredients. We also sell potash to customers for industrial use. In addition, our potash products are used for de-icing and as a water softener regenerant.

We operate three potash mines in Canada, including two shaft mines with a total of three production shafts and one solution mine, as well as two potash mines in the United States, including one shaft mine
and one solution mine. We also own related refineries at each of the mines.

We have a long term potash capacity expansion plan in
Saskatchewan, Canada in response to expected growth in global potash demand. From the inception of our brownfield expansions, our plans provide for an increase in our annual operational capacity for finished product by approximately five million
tonnes.



•At our Esterhazy mine, the K2 shaft underground and mill expansions are complete and the K3 shaft is scheduled for completion in 2017.



•Our Colonsay mine’s new mill is being commissioned and underground work will be completed during calendar 2013.



•Our Belle Plaine Stage One expansion will come on-line in early 2014.

We have deferred construction on approximately two million tonnes of capacity until such time as construction costs moderate and we believe we are able to achieve higher expected returns on our
investment.







POTASH EXPANSION PROJECTS



(tonnes in millions)EstimatedCompletion(Fiscal 
Year)(a)EstimatedIn-service(Fiscal Year)(b)EstimatedAdditionalAnnualOperationalCapacity(c)CompleteColonsay2011-20120.2EsterhazyK120120.1K220130.7Belle Plaine2013-20160.6In progressColonsay20142014-20150.5EsterhazyK320172017-20180.9Future(d)Belle Plaine1.5Colonsay0.55.0



(a)Estimated completion years indicate when capital will be substantially invested.

(b)Estimated in-service years indicate when capacity is expected to begin to be added; does not necessarily reflect full operating capacity.

(c)Project engineering estimates will be impacted by factors which include the quality of reserves and nature of geological formations we are mining at a
particular time.

(d)Brownfield expansions currently deferred (the “Future Expansions”).











As shown in the table above, we have realized the first capacity increases from the expansions at our potash mines. In
addition, we anticipate that additional capacity increases will begin to be realized from expansion projects at our Belle Plaine and Colonsay potash mines beginning in fiscal 2014. All other expansion projects are progressing as planned. We estimate
that our total operational capacity including the planned expansions and the Future Expansions will approximate 14.6 million tonnes. We estimate that our proven peaking capacity including the planned expansions and the Future Expansions will
approximate 16.1 million tonnes.







The map below shows the location of each of our potash mines.





Our current potash annualized operational capacity totals 10.7 million tonnes of product per year and accounted
for approximately 13% of world capacity and 35% of North American capacity. Production during fiscal 2013 totaled 8.3 million tonnes and accounted for approximately 13% of estimated world production and 42% of estimated North American
production.







The following table shows, for each of our potash mines, annual capacity as of May 31, 2013 and volume
of mined ore, average grade and finished product output for the past three fiscal years:



(tonnes in millions)201320122011FacilityAnnualizedProvenPeakingCapacity(a)(c )(d)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)(b)(d)(e)OreMinedGrade% K2O(f)FinishedProduct(b)OreMinedGrade% K2O(f)FinishedProductOreMinedGrade% K2O(f)FinishedProductCanadaBelle Plaine—MOP2.82.48.118.02.18.818.02.38.418.02.2Colonsay—MOP1.81.53.225.81.13.125.41.13.225.01.1Esterhazy—MOP5.35.312.623.04.012.423.24.011.823.93.9Canadian Total9.99.223.921.77.224.321.67.423.421.97.2United StatesCarlsbad—MOP0.50.53.210.50.32.510.60.23.010.20.3Carlsbad—K-Mag® (g)1.11.03.75.70.73.85.10.83.55.10.7Carlsbad Total1.61.56.97.91.06.37.21.06.57.41.0Hersey—MOP(h)--0.126.70.10.226.70.10.126.70.1United States Total1.61.57.01.16.51.16.61.1Totals11.510.730.918.68.330.818.78.530.018.88.3Total excluding toll production(i)7.827.57.427.27.4



(a)Finished product.

(b)Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our
products, maintenance and turnaround time, the quality of the reserves and the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

(c)Represents full capacity assuming no turnaround or maintenance time.

(d)The annualized proven peaking capacity shown above is the capacity currently used to determine our share of Canpotex sales. Canpotex members’
respective shares of Canpotex sales are based upon the members’ respective proven peaking capacities for producing potash. When a Canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member’s proven peaking
capacity based on a test run at the maximum production level. The annual operational capacity reported in the table above can exceed the annualized proven peaking capacity until the test run has been completed.

(e)Annual operational capacity is our estimated long term potash capacity based on the quality of reserves and the nature of the geologic formations
expected to be mined, milled and/or processed over the long term, average amount of scheduled down time and product mix, and no significant modifications to operating conditions, equipment or facilities. Operational capacities will continue to be
updated to the extent new production results impact ore grades assumptions.

(f)Grade % K2O is a traditional reference to the percentage (by weight) of potassium oxide contained in the ore. A higher percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of potassium oxide in the ore.

(g)K-Mag is a specialty product that we produce at our Carlsbad facility.

(h)The Hersey facility also mines, processes and sells salt. We currently operate Hersey at minimum production levels.

(i)We toll produced MOP, for an unrelated third party, at our Esterhazy mine under a Tolling Agreement that expired December 31, 2012.







Canadian Mines

We operate three Canadian potash facilities all located in the southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan, including our solution mine at Belle Plaine, two interconnected mine shafts at our Esterhazy
shaft mine and our shaft mine at Colonsay.

Extensive potash deposits are found in the southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan. The
potash ore is contained in a predominantly rock salt formation known as the Prairie Evaporites. The Prairie Evaporites deposits are bounded by limestone formations and contain the potash beds. Three potash deposits of economic importance occur in
Saskatchewan: the Esterhazy, Belle Plaine and Patience Lake members. The Patience Lake member is mined at Colonsay, and the Esterhazy member at Esterhazy. At Belle Plaine all three members are mined. Each of the major potash members contains several
potash beds of different thicknesses and grades. The particular beds mined at Colonsay and Esterhazy have a mining height of 11 and 8 feet, respectively. At Belle Plaine several beds of different thicknesses are mined.

Our potash mines in Canada produce MOP exclusively. Esterhazy and Colonsay utilize shaft mining while Belle Plaine utilizes solution mining technology.
Traditional potash shaft mining takes place underground at depths of over 1,000 meters where continuous mining machines cut out the ore face and load it onto conveyor belts. The ore is then crushed, moved to storage bins and hoisted to refineries
above ground. In contrast, our solution mining process involves heated brine, which is pumped through a “cluster” to dissolve the potash in the ore beds at a depth of approximately 1,500 meters. A cluster consists of a series of boreholes
drilled into the potash ore. A separate distribution center at each cluster controls the brine flow. The solution containing dissolved potash and salt is pumped to a refinery where sodium chloride, a co-product of this process, is separated from the
potash through the use of evaporation and crystallization techniques. Concurrently, the solution is pumped into a cooling pond where additional crystallization occurs and the resulting product is recovered via a floating dredge. Refined potash is
dewatered, dried and sized. Our Canadian operations produce 14 different MOP products, including industrial grades, many through proprietary processes.

Under the Tolling Agreement, we mined and refined Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc.’s (“PCS’s”) potash reserves at our Esterhazy mine for a nominal fee plus a pro
rata share of operating and capital costs for approximately forty years. Under the agreement, we delivered to PCS up to 1.1 million tonnes of potash per year. The Tolling Agreement expired December 31, 2012. The productive capacity at our
Esterhazy mine previously used to satisfy our obligations under the Tolling Agreement is now fully available to us for sales to any of our customers at then-current market prices.

As previously reported, on December 7, 2011, we and PCS settled, among other matters, a dispute regarding the expiration of the Tolling Agreement. Under the settlement, the Tolling Agreement expired
at December 31, 2012. In addition, effective December 31, 2012, we received credit for 1.2 million tonnes of capacity at our Esterhazy mine for purposes of calculating our relative share of annual sales of potash to international
customers by Canpotex, capacity which was previously allocated to PCS. Canpotex is an export association of certain Canadian potash producers. Canpotex sales are generally allocated among the producer members based on production capacity.

Our potash mineral rights in the Province of Saskatchewan consist of the following:



Belle PlaineColonsayEsterhazyTotalAcres under controlOwned in fee14,64910,524113,020138,193Leased from Province51,56867,006191,633310,207Leased from others-2,72668,76671,492Total under control66,21780,256373,419519,892







We believe that our mineral rights in Saskatchewan are sufficient to support current operations for more
than a century. Leases are generally renewable at our option for successive terms, generally 21 years each, except that certain of the acres shown above as “Leased from others” are leased under long-term leases with terms (including
renewals at our option) that expire from 2023 to 2142.

We pay Canadian resource taxes consisting of the Potash Production Tax and resource
surcharge. The Potash Production Tax is a Saskatchewan provincial tax on potash production and consists of a base payment and a profits tax. We also pay a percentage of the value of resource sales from our Saskatchewan mines. In addition to the
Canadian resource taxes, royalties are payable to the mineral owners in respect of potash reserves or production of potash. We have included a further discussion of the Canadian resource taxes and royalties in our Management’s Analysis.

Since December 1985, we have effectively managed an inflow of salt saturated brine into our Esterhazy mine. At various times since then, we
have experienced changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at Esterhazy. To date, the brine inflow, including our remediation efforts to control it, have not had a material impact on our production processes or volumes. The volume of the net
brine inflow (the rate of inflow less the amount we are pumping out of the mine) or net outflow (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow) fluctuates and is dependent on a number of variables, such as the location of
the source of the inflow; the magnitude of the inflow; available pumping, surface and underground brine storage capacities; underground injection well capacities, and the effectiveness of calcium chloride and cementatious grout used to reduce or
prevent the inflows, among other factors. As a result of these brine inflows, we incur expenditures, certain of which have been capitalized and others that have been charged to expense, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”).

It is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at Esterhazy may
further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or
abandon the mine. See “Key Factors that can Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and “Potash Net Sales and Gross Margin” in our Management’s Analysis and “Our Esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt
saturated brine for more than 25 years” in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this report, which are incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. We have
begun construction of a new third shaft at the Esterhazy mine as part of our potash expansion plan which is also designed to mitigate risk from current and future inflows.

Due to the ongoing brine inflow at Esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. Like other potash producers’ shaft mines, our Colonsay,
Saskatchewan, and Carlsbad, New Mexico, mines are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of their shaft mining operations, but water inflow risks at these mines are included in our insurance coverage subject to deductibles,
retentions and limits negotiated with our insurers.

United States Mines

In the United States, we have two potash facilities, including a shaft mine located in Carlsbad, New Mexico and a solution mine located in Hersey,
Michigan.







Our potash mineral rights in the United States consist of the following:



CarlsbadHerseyTotalAcres under controlOwned in fee-581581Long-term leases77,1031,79978,902Total under control77,1032,38079,483

The Carlsbad ore reserves are of two types: (1) sylvinite, a mixture of potassium chloride and sodium chloride that
is the same as the ore mined in Saskatchewan, and (2) langbeinite, a double sulfate of potassium and magnesium. These two types of potash reserves occur in a predominantly rock salt formation known as the Salado Formation. The McNutt Member of
this formation consists of eleven units of economic importance, of which we currently mine two. The McNutt Member’s evaporite deposits are interlayered with anhydrite, polyhalite, potassium salts, clay, and minor amounts of sandstone and
siltstone.

Continuous underground mining methods are utilized to extract the ore. Drum type mining machines are used to cut the sylvinite and
langbeinite ores from the face. Mined ore is then loaded onto conveyors, transported to storage areas, and then hoisted to the surface for further processing at our refinery.

Two types of potash are produced at the Carlsbad refinery. MOP is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry.
Double sulfate of potash magnesia is the second type of potash, which we market under our brand name K-Mag®, and
contains sulfur, potassium and magnesium, with low levels of chloride.

At the Carlsbad facility, we mine and refine
potash from 77,103 acres of mineral rights. We control these reserves pursuant to either (i) leases from the U.S. government that, in general, continue in effect at our option (subject to readjustment by the U.S. government every 20 years) or
(ii) leases from the State of New Mexico that continue as long as we continue to produce from them. These reserves contain an estimated total of 256 million tonnes of potash mineralization (calculated after estimated extraction losses) in
two mining beds evaluated at thicknesses ranging from 4.5 feet to in excess of 11 feet. At average refinery rates, these ore reserves are estimated to be sufficient to yield 16 million tonnes of concentrates from sylvinite with an average grade
of approximately 60% K2O and 20 million tonnes of
langbeinite concentrates with an average grade of approximately 22% K2O. At projected rates of production, we estimate that Carlsbad’s reserves of sylvinite and langbeinite are sufficient to support operations for approximately 31 years and 19 years, respectively.

At Hersey, Michigan, we operate a solution mining facility which produces salt and potash. Mining occurs in the Michigan Basin in a
predominantly rock salt formation called the Salina Group Evaporite. This formation is a clean salt deposit with interlayered beds of sylvinite and carbonate. At the Hersey facility, our mineral rights consist of 581 acres owned in fee and 1,799
acres controlled under leases that, in general, continue in effect at our option as long as we continue our operations at Hersey. These lands contain an estimated 40 million tonnes of potash mineralization contained in two beds ranging in
thickness from 14 to 30 feet.

Royalties for the U.S. operations amounted to approximately $20.4 million for fiscal 2013. These royalties are
established by the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, in the case of the Carlsbad leases from the U.S. government, and pursuant to provisions set forth in the leases, in the case of the Carlsbad state leases and the Hersey
leases.

Reserves

Our estimates below of our potash reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization are based on exploration drill hole data, seismic data and actual mining
results over more than 35 years. Proven reserves are estimated by







identifying material in place that is delineated on at least two sides and material in place within a half-mile radius or distance from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole.
Probable reserves are estimated by identifying material in place within a one mile radius from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Historical extraction ratios from the many years of mining results are then applied to both types
of material to estimate the proven and probable reserves. We believe that all reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization reported below are potentially recoverable using existing production shaft and refinery locations.

Our estimated recoverable potash reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization as of May 31, 2013 for each of our mines is as follows:



(tonnes in millions)Reserves(a)(b)PotashMineralization(a)(c)FacilityRecoverableTonnesAverageGrade(% 
K2O)PotentiallyRecoverableTonnesCanadaBelle Plaine79718.02,331Colonsay22426.4295Esterhazy86024.5729sub-totals1,88122.03,355United StatesCarlsbad2567.7-Hersey4026.7-sub-totals29610.2-Totals2,17720.43,355



(a)There has been no third party review of reserve estimates within the last five years. The reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the
standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the SEC.

(b)Includes 1.3 billion tonnes of proven reserves and 0.9 billion tonnes of probable reserves.

(c)The non-reserve potash mineralization reported in the table in some cases extends to the boundaries of the mineral rights we own or lease. Such
boundaries are up to 16 miles from the closest existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Based on available geologic data, the non-reserve potash mineralization represents potash that we expect to mine in the future, but it may not meet
all of the technical requirements for categorization as proven or probable reserves under Industry Guide 7.

As discussed
more fully above, we either own the reserves and mineralization shown above or lease them pursuant to mineral leases that generally remain in effect or are renewable at our option, or are long-term leases. Accordingly, we expect to be able to mine
all reported reserves that are leased prior to termination or expiration of the existing leases.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is used at our potash solution mines as a fuel to produce steam and to dry potash products. The steam is used to generate electricity, in
evaporation and crystallization processes and to provide thermal heat to the solution mining process. Our two solution mines accounted for approximately 78% of our Potash segment’s total natural gas requirements for potash production in fiscal
2013. At our shaft mines, natural gas is used as a fuel to heat fresh air supplied to the shaft mines and for drying potash products. Combined natural gas usage for both the solution and shaft mines approximated 17 million MMbtu for fiscal
2013. We purchase our natural gas requirements on firm delivery index price-based physical contracts and on short term spot-priced physical







contracts. Our Canadian operations purchase all of their physical gas in Saskatchewan via the TransGas pipeline system using AECO price indices as pricing references. The U.S. potash operations
in Michigan and New Mexico purchase physical gas in their respective regional markets via the MichCon and El Paso Permian Basin market hubs as pricing references, respectively. We use financial derivative contracts to manage the price of portions of
our future purchases.

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES

United States and Canada

We
have a United States and Canada sales and marketing team that serves our business segments. We sell to wholesale distributors, retail chains, cooperatives, independent retailers and national accounts.

Customer service and the ability to effectively minimize the overall supply chain costs are key competitive factors in the crop nutrient and animal feed
ingredients businesses. In addition to our production facilities, to service the needs of our customers, we own, lease or have contractual throughput or other arrangements at strategically located distribution warehouses along or near the
Mississippi and Ohio Rivers as well as in other key agricultural regions of the United States and Canada. From these facilities, we market Mosaic produced phosphate and potash products for customers who in turn resell the product into the
distribution channel or directly to farmers in the United States and Canada.

We own port facilities in Savage, Minnesota as well as warehouse
distribution facilities in Pekin, Illinois; Henderson, Kentucky; and Houston, Texas, which has a deep water berth providing access to the Gulf of Mexico.

In addition to the geographically situated facilities that we own, our U.S. distribution operations also include leased distribution space or contractual throughput agreements in other key geographical
areas such as California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania and Texas.

Our Canadian customers include independent dealers and national accounts. We also lease and own warehouse facilities in Saskatchewan, Ontario, Quebec and Manitoba in Canada.

International

Outside of the
United States and Canada, we market our Phosphates segment’s products through PhosChem, as well as our Phosphates segment’s own international distribution activities. During fiscal 2013, PhosChem marketed approximately 67% of our phosphate
export sales volume. We administer PhosChem on behalf of PhosChem’s member companies. We estimate that PhosChem’s sales represent approximately 59% of total U.S. export volume of concentrated phosphates and 10% of global trade volume. The
countries that account for the largest amount of PhosChem’s sales of concentrated phosphates include India, Brazil, Australia, Japan and Colombia.

Our sales outside of the United States and Canada of Saskatchewan potash products are made through Canpotex. Canpotex sales are allocated among its members based on peaking capacity. Our current
entitlement is 43.0%, by volume, of Canpotex’s requirements. We have been notified by Canpotex that our entitlement is being changed effective July 1, 2013 to approximately 40% as a result of a recent change in the members’ respective
peaking capacities. Our potash exports from Carlsbad are sold through our own sales force. We also market our Potash segment’s products through our Phosphates segment international distribution activities, which acquire potash primarily through
Canpotex. The largest amount of international potash sales, by volume, are to Brazil, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, India, Japan, Korea, Thailand, Taiwan and Australia.

Our Phosphates segment also purchases phosphates, potash and nitrogen products from unrelated third parties to produce blended crop nutrients (“Blends”).







To service the needs of our customers, our international distribution activities include a network of
strategically located sales offices, crop nutrient blending and bagging facilities, port terminals and warehouse distribution facilities that we own and operate in key geographic areas throughout several countries. The blending and bagging
facilities primarily produce Blends from phosphate, potash and nitrogen. The average product mix in our Blends (by volume) contains approximately 50% phosphate, 25% potash and 25% nitrogen, although this mix differs based on seasonal and other
factors. Our international operations serve primarily as a sales outlet for our North American Phosphates production, both for resale and as an input for Blends. Our Potash segment also has historically furnished a portion of the raw materials needs
for the production of Blends, primarily via Canpotex, and is expected to continue to do so in the future.

The following maps show the
locations of our primary distribution operations in South America and Asia:





Other Products

With a strong brand position in a multi-billion dollar animal feed ingredients global market, our Phosphates segment supplies animal feed ingredients for poultry and livestock to customers in North
America, Latin America and Asia. Our potash sales to non-agricultural users are primarily to large industrial accounts and the animal feed industry. Additionally, we sell potash for de-icing and as a water softener regenerant, as well as
fluorosilicic acid for water fluoridation.

COMPETITION

Because crop nutrients are global commodities available from numerous sources, crop nutrition companies compete primarily on the basis of delivered
price. Other competitive factors include product quality, cost and availability of raw materials, customer service, plant efficiency and availability of product. As a result, markets for our products are highly competitive. We compete with a broad
range of domestic and international producers, including farmer cooperatives, subsidiaries of larger companies, and independent crop nutrient companies. Foreign competitors often have access to cheaper raw materials, are required to comply with less
stringent regulatory requirements or are owned or subsidized by governments and, as a result, may have cost advantages over North American companies. We believe that our extensive North American and international production and







distribution system provides us with a competitive advantage by allowing us to achieve economies of scale, transportation and storage efficiencies, and obtain market intelligence. Also, we
believe our premium products provide us a competitive advantage with customers in North and South America.

Unlike many of our competitors, we
have our own distribution system to sell phosphate- and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients, whether produced by us or by other third parties, around the globe. In North America, we have one of the largest and most strategically
located distribution systems for crop nutrients, including warehouse facilities in key agricultural regions. We also have an extensive network of distribution facilities internationally, including in the key growth regions of Latin America and Asia,
with port terminals, warehouses, and blending plants in the following countries: Brazil, Argentina, Chile, China, and India. Our global presence allows us to efficiently serve customers in approximately 40 countries.

Phosphates Segment

Our Phosphates segment operates in a highly competitive global market. Among the competitors in the global phosphate industry are domestic and foreign companies, as well as foreign government-supported
producers in Asia and North Africa. Phosphate producers compete primarily based on price and, to a lesser extent, product quality, service and innovation, such as our MicroEssentials®product. Major integrated producers of feed phosphates are located in the United States, Europe and China. Many smaller producers are located in emerging markets
around the world. Many of these smaller producers are not miners of phosphate rock or manufacturers of phosphoric acid and are required to purchase this material on the open market.

We believe that we are a low cost integrated producer of phosphate-based crop nutrients, due in part to our scale, vertical integration and strategic network of production and distribution facilities. As
the world’s largest producer of concentrated phosphates, as well as the second largest miner of phosphate rock in the world and the largest in the United States, we maintain an advantage over some competitors as the scale of operations
effectively reduces production costs per unit. We are also vertically integrated to captively supply one of our key inputs, phosphate rock, to our phosphate production facilities. We believe that our position as an integrated producer of phosphate
rock provides us with a significant cost advantage over competitors that are non-integrated phosphate producers. Our investment in the Miski Mayo Mine and related commercial offtake supply agreement to purchase a share of the phosphate rock also
allows us to reduce our purchases of phosphate rock from other suppliers. In addition, we expect that the Northern Promise Joint Venture will enable us to not only further diversify our sources of phosphates but also improve our access to key
agricultural countries in Asia and the Middle East.

We produce ammonia at our Faustina, Louisiana concentrates plant in quantities
sufficient to meet approximately one quarter of our total ammonia needs. With no captive ammonia production in Florida, we are subject to significant volatility in our purchase price of ammonia from world markets. With our own sulfur transportation
barges and our 50% ownership interest in Gulf Sulphur Services, we are also well-positioned to source an adequate, flexible and cost-effective supply of sulfur, our third key input. We believe that our investments in sulfur transportation assets
continue to afford us a competitive advantage compared to other North American producers in cost and access to sulfur.

With facilities in
both central Florida and Louisiana, in addition to dedicated marine and other assets for the transportation and handing of sulfur, we are logistically well positioned to fulfill our needs at very competitive prices. Those multiple production points
also afford us the flexibility to optimally balance supply and demand.

We have a strong brand in several of the countries in which we have
international distribution activities. In addition to having access to our own production, our international distribution activities have the capability to supply a wide variety of crop nutrients to our dealer/farmer customer base. Our presence in
Latin America and Asia allows us to capitalize on the growth in nutrient demand in these large and growing international regions.

We are
subject to many environmental laws and regulations in Florida and Louisiana that are often more stringent than those to which producers in other countries are subject.







Potash Segment

Potash is a commodity available from several geographical regions around the world and, consequently, the market is highly competitive. Through our participation in Canpotex, we compete outside of North
America against various independent and state-owned potash producers. We also ship product from our Carlsbad, New Mexico, potash facility to our South American and Asian distribution centers. Our principal methods of competition with respect to the
sale of potash include product pricing, and offering consistent, high-quality products and superior service. We believe that our potash cost structure is competitive in the industry and should improve as we achieve the expected increases in
production from our potash expansion projects.

FACTORS AFFECTING DEMAND

We sell products throughout the world. Unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, government policies and other regulatory
requirements affecting trade; unexpected changes in tax and trade treaties; strengthening or weakening of foreign economies as well as political relations with the United States may cause sales trends to customers in one or more foreign countries to
differ from sales trends in the United States.

Our international operations are subject to risks from changes in foreign currencies, or
government policy, which can affect local farmer economics.

OTHER MATTERS

Employees

We had approximately
8,400 employees as of May 31, 2013, consisting of approximately 3,600 salaried and 4,800 hourly employees.

Labor Relations

As of May 31, 2013:



•We had ten collective bargaining agreements with unions covering approximately 93% of our hourly employees in the U.S. and Canada. Of these employees,
approximately 32% are covered under collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire in fiscal 2014.







•Agreements with ten unions covered all employees in Brazil, representing 73% of our international employees. More than one agreement may govern our
relations with each of these unions. In general, the agreements are renewable on an annual basis.



•We also had collective bargaining agreements with unions covering employees in several other countries.

Failure to renew any of our union agreements could result in a strike or labor stoppage that could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
However, we have not experienced significant work stoppage in many years and historically have had good labor relations.

Financial
Information about our Business Segments and Operations by Geographic Areas

We have included financial information about our business
segments, our operations by geographic area and our revenues by class of similar products in Note 23 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Information Available on our Website

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder are made available free of charge on our website, (www.mosaicco.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The
information contained on our website is not being incorporated in this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding our executive officers as of July 16, 2013 is set forth below:



NameAgePositionAnthony T. Brausen54Senior Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting OfficerGary “Bo” N. Davis61Senior Vice President—Phosphates OperationsMark E. Kaplan45Vice President—Public AffairsRichard L. Mack45Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryRichard N. McLellan56Senior Vice President—CommercialJames “Joc” C. O’Rourke52Executive Vice President—Operations and Chief Operating OfficerJames T. Prokopanko59Chief Executive Officer, President and DirectorCorrine D. Ricard50Senior Vice President—Human ResourcesLawrence W. Stranghoener59Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Anthony T. Brausen. Mr. Brausen was elected Senior Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting Officer
of Mosaic in December 2011. His responsibilities include global Accounting, Financial Planning, Treasury, Tax, Risk Advisory & Assurance and Information Technology. Previously, Mr. Brausen served as Vice President—Finance and
Chief Accounting Officer since April 2006. Prior to joining Mosaic as an employee in February 2006, Mr. Brausen had been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Tennant Company, a designer, manufacturer and marketer of floor maintenance
and outdoor cleaning equipment, chemical-free cleaning technologies, specialty surface coatings and related products, since March 2000. From 1989-2000, Mr. Brausen held several financial management positions, including Vice President and
Treasurer, Assistant Controller and Director of Investor Relations, with International Multifoods Corporation, a diversified publicly-traded food processor and distributor. From 1981-1989, Mr. Brausen held various positions with KPMG LLP.







Gary “Bo” N. Davis.Mr. Davis was elected Senior Vice President—Phosphate
Operations of Mosaic in July 2011. Previously, Mr. Davis served as Vice President—Phosphate Operations of Mosaic since June 2010, as Vice-President—Phosphate Operations for all of Mosaic’s Florida and Louisiana operations since
2007 and Vice President of Mining since Mosaic’s formation in 2004. Prior to the Combination, Mr. Davis held several positions at Cargill, including Vice President, Operations for the fertilizer division from 1999 to 2004. Mr. Davis
has worked in the crop nutrient industry for over 30 years.

Mark E. Kaplan.Mr. Kaplan was elected Vice President—Public
Affairs in August 2011. Mr. Kaplan joined Mosaic in January 2007 as Vice President – Planning and Government Affairs of our subsidiary Mosaic Fertilizer, LLC to lead its government affairs function in Florida. In May 2010, Mr. Kaplan
became Vice President – Public Affairs and Policy for Mosaic’s Phosphates business segment, leading its overall public affairs function. Prior to joining Mosaic, Mr. Kaplan served as chief of staff for former Florida Governor Jeb
Bush. He also held roles as president and general counsel of Carlisle Development Group LLC, executive director of the Florida Housing Finance Corporation and a shareholder in the law firm Katz, Kutter, Haigler, Alderman, Bryant & Yon, P.A.

Richard L. Mack.Mr. Mack was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary effective January 1,
2009. Mr. Mack served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Mosaic since its formation in 2004. Mr. Mack also provides executive oversight for Mosaic’s land development and permitting organizations.
Prior to the formation of Mosaic in 2004, Mr. Mack was a Senior Attorney in Cargill’s worldwide law department and a co-founder of Cargill’s venture capital business unit.

Richard N. McLellan.Mr. McLellan was elected as Senior Vice President—Commercial in April 2007. Previously, Mr. McLellan had served us as our Vice President—North American
Sales since December 2005 and as Country Manager for our (and, prior to the Combination, Cargill’s) Brazilian crop nutrient business since November, 2002. Mr. McLellan joined Cargill in 1989 and held various roles in its Canadian and U.S.
operations, including grain, retail and wholesale crop nutrient distribution.

James “Joc” C. O’Rourke.Mr. O’Rourke was promoted to Executive Vice President—Operations and Chief Operating Officer in August 2012. Previously, Mr. O’Rourke served as Executive Vice President—Operations since January 2009. Prior to joining
Mosaic, Mr. O’Rourke was President, Australia Pacific for Barrick Gold Corporation, the largest gold producer in Australia, since May 2006, where he was responsible for the Australia Pacific Business Unit consisting of ten gold and copper
mines in Australia and Papua New Guinea. Before that, Mr. O’Rourke was Executive General Manager Australia and Managing Director of Placer Dome Asia Pacific Ltd., the second largest gold producer in Australia, from December 2004, where he
was responsible for the Australia Business Unit consisting of five gold and copper mines; and General Manager Western Australia Operations for Iluka Resources Ltd., the world’s largest zircon and second largest titanium producer, from September
2003, where he was responsible for six mining and concentrating operations and two mineral separation/synthetic rutile refineries. Mr. O’Rourke had previously held various management, engineering and other roles in the mining industry in
Canada and Australia since 1984.

James T. Prokopanko.Mr. Prokopanko became our President and Chief Executive Officer on
January 1, 2007. Until joining us as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer on July 31, 2006, Mr. Prokopanko was a Corporate Vice President of Cargill since 2004. He was Cargill’s Corporate Vice President with
executive responsibility for procurement from 2002 to 2006 and a platform leader responsible for Cargill’s Ag Producer Services Platform from 1999 to July 2006. After joining Cargill in 1978, Mr. Prokopanko served in a wide range of
leadership positions, including being named Vice President of North American crop inputs business in 1995. During his Cargill career, Mr. Prokopanko was engaged in retail agriculture businesses in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Argentina
and the United Kingdom. Mr. Prokopanko resigned from all of his current positions with Cargill and its subsidiaries (other than Mosaic) in connection with his election as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Mosaic.
Mr. Prokopanko has served as a director of Mosaic since October 2004 and served as a member of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the Environmental, Health and Safety Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors since
his election to the Board through July 31, 2006.







Corrine D. Ricard.Ms. Ricard was named Senior Vice President—Human Resources in April
2012. Ms. Ricard has held various leadership positions at Mosaic since its formation, including Vice President—International Distribution, Vice President—Business Development and Vice President—Supply Chain. Prior to
Mosaic’s formation, Ms. Ricard worked for Cargill in various roles including risk management, supply chain and commodity trading.

Lawrence W. Stranghoener.Mr. Stranghoener joined us as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in October 2004. He previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Thrivent Financial for Lutherans and its predecessor organization from January 1, 2001 until October 2004, where he had responsibility over the organization’s investments, finance and related functions. Prior to that,
from 1983 through December 1999, Mr. Stranghoener worked in various senior management positions with Honeywell, Inc. in the United States and Europe, including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Business Development,
Vice President of Finance, Director of Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis and Director of Investor Relations. In December 1999, following the Honeywell-AlliedSignal merger, Mr. Stranghoener joined Techies.com of Edina, Minnesota, as
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Our executive officers are generally elected to serve until their respective successors
are elected and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. No “family relationships,” as that term is defined in Item 401(d) of Regulation S-K, exist among any of the listed officers.

