Item 1. Business.

OVERVIEW

The
Mosaic Company is one of the world’s leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients for the global agriculture industry. Through our broad product offering, we are a single source supplier of phosphate- and
potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients. We serve customers in more than 40 countries. We mine phosphate rock in Florida and process rock into finished phosphate products at facilities in Florida and Louisiana. We mine potash in
Saskatchewan, New Mexico and Michigan. We have other production, blending or distribution operations and equity investments in Brazil, China, India, Argentina, and Chile, and recently made a strategic equity investment in a new phosphate rock mine
in Peru. Our operations include the top four nutrient-consuming countries in the world.

The Mosaic Company is a Delaware corporation that was
incorporated in January 2004 to serve as the parent company of the business that was formed through the business combination of IMC Global Inc. and the fertilizer businesses of Cargill, Incorporated.

As of May 31, 2010, Cargill owned approximately 64.2% of our outstanding common stock. We are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under
the ticker symbol “MOS” and are headquartered in Plymouth, Minnesota.

We conduct our business through wholly and majority-owned
subsidiaries as well as businesses in which we own less than a majority or a non-controlling interest. We are organized into two reportable business segments: Phosphates and Potash. The following chart shows the respective contributions to fiscal
2010 net sales and operating earnings for each of these business segments and Corporate, Eliminations and Other:





Phosphates Segment—We are the largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and the largest producer of phosphate-based animal feed
ingredients in the United States. We sell phosphate-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients throughout North America and internationally. Our Phosphates segment also includes our North American and international distribution activities. Our
distribution activities include sales offices, port terminals and warehouses in the United States, Canada, and several other key international countries. In addition, the international distribution activities include blending, bagging and production
facilities in Brazil and a number of other countries. We accounted for approximately 13% of estimated global production and 56% of estimated North American production of phosphate crop nutrients during fiscal 2010.







Potash Segment—We are the third-largest producer of potash in the world. We sell potash
throughout North America and internationally, principally as fertilizer, but also for use in industrial applications and, to a lesser degree, as animal feed ingredients. We accounted for approximately 12% of estimated global potash production and
38% of estimated North American potash production during fiscal 2010.

Corporate, Eliminations and Other—Other net sales and
operating earnings in the charts above include sales of nitrogen products and the results of our corporate operations.





As used in this report:



•“Mosaic” means The Mosaic Company;



•“we”, “us”, and “our” refer to Mosaic and its direct and indirect subsidiaries,
individually or in any combination;



•“IMC” means IMC Global Inc.;



•“Cargill” means Cargill, Incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries other than us, individually or in any
combination;



•“Cargill Crop Nutrition” or “CCN” means the crop nutrient business we acquired from Cargill in the
Combination;



•“Combination” means the October 22, 2004 combination of IMC and Cargill Crop Nutrition;



•references in this report to a particular fiscal year are to the twelve months ended May 31 of that year; and



•“tonne” or “tonnes” means a metric tonne or tonnes of 2,205 pounds each unless we specifically state
that we mean short or long tons.

Business Developments during Fiscal 2010

During fiscal 2010, a period of significant market uncertainty, we continued to execute against our strategic priorities. At the core of our strategy is
a plan to extend our resource base and invest in the growth of both phosphates and potash. In the Potash segment, we are growing by investing in brownfield expansions. In the Phosphates segment, we are focusing on growing the value of our business
and maintaining our position as one of the lowest cost phosphate producers in the world. Our global distribution network improves the access of our North American production assets to the global markets for our products and helps balance the
seasonality of our business. In fiscal 2010 the steps we took to execute our strategic priorities including the following:



•We continued the expansion of capacity in our Potash segment, in line with our view of the long-term fundamentals of that business. The planned
expansions over the next several years are expected to increase our annual capacity for finished product by more than five million tonnes. We are positioning our expansion projects so that we are able to bring the additional capacity on line when
market demand warrants.



•We diversified our phosphate rock sources in alignment with our strategy. In the latter half of fiscal 2010, we entered into an agreement that we
consummated on July 7, 2010 to acquire a 35% economic interest in a joint venture (the “Miski Mayo Joint Venture”), with subsidiaries of Vale S.A. and Mitsui & Co., Ltd., that owns a recently completed phosphate
rock mine (the “Miski Mayo Mine”) in the Bayovar region of Peru for $385 million. We also entered into a commercial offtake supply agreement to purchase phosphate rock from the Miski Mayo Mine in a volume proportionate to our
economic interest in the joint venture. Phosphate rock production at the Miski Mayo Mine and deliveries to us are expected to begin in the first half of fiscal 2011. The Miski Mayo Mine’s expected production capacity is 3.9 million tonnes
per year, once full capacity is reached.







•On February 11, 2010, we entered into agreements with Vale S.A. and its subsidiaries (“Vale”) under which Vale has call
options to purchase from us, and we have put options to sell to Vale, our minority stake in Fertifos Administracão e Participacão S.A. (“Fertifos”) and Fertilizantes Fosfatados S.A.
(“Fosfertil”), and our Cubatão facility in Brazil. These assets are part of our Phosphates segment. The aggregate sales price for these assets, if the options are exercised, is in excess of $1 billion. The sale is
subject to a number of conditions. We have included additional information about this transaction under “Sale of Fosfertil and Cubatão Facility”.



•We generated operating cash flow of $1.4 billion in fiscal 2010 and maintained cash and cash equivalents of $2.5 billion as of May 31, 2010. We
were successful in investing in our business, divesting non-strategic assets and providing a significant cash return to our stockholders. Our strong cash flows allowed us to pay a special dividend of $578.5 million, or $1.30 per share, on
December 3, 2009 in addition to quarterly dividends of $0.05 per share of common stock for each quarter of fiscal 2010.



•We entered into a new unsecured three-year revolving credit facility of up to $500 million. This facility is available for revolving credit loans,
swing line loans of up to $20 million and letters of credit of up to $200 million. Replacement of our prior credit facility with this new facility reflects the culmination of our efforts to achieve the goal we established at the time of formation of
Mosaic to achieve investment grade credit ratings1and
eliminate a non-investment grade financing and debt covenant structure.

We have included additional information about these
and other developments in our business during fiscal 2010 in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“Management’s Analysis”) that is incorporated by reference in
this report in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”.

After the end of fiscal 2010, on June 30 2010, certain environmental groups filed a lawsuit against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the
“Corps”) contesting its issuance of a federal wetlands permit for the extension of our South Fort Meade, Florida, phosphate rock mine into Hardee County (the “Hardee County Extension”). On July 1,
2010, the court issued a temporary restraining order (“TRO”) prohibiting the Corps and us from conducting activities in jurisdictional waters of the United States in reliance on the federal wetlands permit issued by the
Corps. The TRO remains in effect through July 28, 2010 unless modified or extended by the court. The court also held a hearing on plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction on July 22, 2010. If a preliminary injunction is entered
by the court and mining of the Hardee County Extension is not permitted, we expect that we will need to shut down, in whole or in part, mining activities at the South Fort Meade mine for an indefinite period of time, resulting in layoffs of
employees, significant costs to suspend operations, idle plant costs and possible other impacts on our Phosphates operations. We have included additional information about this lawsuit in our Management’s Analysis and in Note 21 of our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

The discussion below of our business segment operations should be read in conjunction with the following information that we have included in this
report:



•The risk factors discussed in this report in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”



•Our Management’s Analysis.



•The financial statements and supplementary financial information in our Consolidated Financial Statements (“Consolidated Financial
Statements”). This information is incorporated by reference in this report in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



1A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. A security rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning
rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated separately from any other rating.







Phosphates Segment

OurPhosphatesbusiness segment has historically owned and operated mines and production facilities in Florida which produce concentrated
phosphate crop nutrients and phosphate-based animal feed ingredients, and processing plants in Louisiana which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. Our Phosphates segment’s results have also historically included our North American
distribution activities and the results of Phosphate Chemicals Export Association, Inc. (“PhosChem”), a U.S. Webb-Pomerene Act association of phosphate producers which exports concentrated phosphate crop nutrient products
around the world for us and PhosChem’s other member.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we implemented an international distribution
strategy that realigned our business segments (the “Realignment”) to more clearly reflect our evolving business model. The Realignment consisted of moving from three to two business segments by combining our Offshore segment
with our Phosphates segment. Our former Offshore business was principally an international distributor of crop nutrients. Our Phosphates business segment now includes our North American concentrated phosphate crop nutrient and animal feed
ingredients operations, North American distribution activities, the results of PhosChem, and international distribution activities. The Realignment is intended to further align our strong global distribution resources with our North American
production assets.

U.S. Phosphate Crop Nutrients and Animal Feed Ingredients

We are the largest producer of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients in the world. Our U.S. phosphates
operations have capacity to produce approximately 4.4 million tonnes of phosphoric acid
(“P2O5”) per year, or about 9% of world capacity and
about 45% of North American capacity. Phosphoric acid is produced by reacting finely ground phosphate rock with sulfuric acid. Phosphoric acid is the key building block for the production of high analysis or concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and
animal feed products, and is the most comprehensive measure of phosphate capacity and production and a commonly used benchmark in our industry. Our U.S. phosphoric acid production totaled approximately 3.6 million tonnes during fiscal 2010 and
accounted for approximately 11% of estimated global production and 46% of estimated North American output during fiscal 2010.

Our
phosphate crop nutrient products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors and retailers. Our principal phosphate crop nutrient products are:



•Diammonium Phosphate (“DAP”). DAP is the most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient worldwide. DAP is produced by
combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. This initial reaction creates a slurry that is then pumped into a granulation plant where it is reacted with additional ammonia to produce DAP. DAP is a solid granular product.



•Monoammonium Phosphate (“MAP”). MAP is the second most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient and the fastest
growing phosphate product worldwide. MAP is also produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. The resulting slurry is then pumped into the granulation plant where it is reacted with additional phosphoric acid to produce MAP.
MAP is a solid granular product, but requires less ammonia and more sulfur than DAP.

MicroEssentials®is a value-added ammoniated phosphate product that is enhanced through a patented process that creates very thin platelets of sulfur and other micronutrients, such as zinc, on the granulated product. The patented process incorporates
both the sulfate and elemental forms of sulfur, providing season long availability to crops.

In addition, our Phosphates
segment is one of the largest producers and marketers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in the world. Production of our animal feed ingredients products is located at our New Wales, Florida facility. We market our feed phosphate primarily
under the leading brand names of Biofos®and
Multifos®.







Our primary phosphate crop nutrient and feed phosphate production facilities are located in central Florida
and Louisiana. The following map shows the locations of each of our phosphate concentrates plants in the United States and the locations of each of our active and planned future phosphate mines in Florida:



Annual capacity by plant at May 31, 2010 and production volumes by plant for fiscal 2010 are listed below:



(tonnes in millions)Phosphoric AcidProcessed Phosphate(a)/DAP/MAPMicroEssentials®/Feed PhosphateFacilityAnnualOperationalCapacity(b)ProductionAnnualOperationalCapacity(b)ProductionFlorida:Bartow1.00.82.11.8New Wales1.71.54.23.3Riverview0.90.71.71.53.63.08.06.6Louisiana:Faustina--1.71.3Uncle Sam0.80.6--0.80.61.71.3Total4.43.69.77.9



(a)Our effective capacity to produce processed phosphates has been less than our nominal capacity except to the extent we purchase phosphoric acid.







(b)Actual operating rates vary from those shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products,
maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

The phosphoric
acid produced at Uncle Sam is shipped to Faustina, where it is used to produce DAP and MAP. Our Faustina plant also manufactures ammonia that is mostly consumed in our concentrate plants.

We produced approximately 7.3 million tonnes of phosphate crop nutrients for fiscal 2010 and accounted for roughly 13% of estimated world output and
56% of estimated North American production.

Phosphate Rock

Phosphate rock is the key mineral used to produce phosphate crop nutrients and feed phosphate. Our phosphate rock production totaled approximately
13.3 million tonnes in fiscal 2010 and accounted for approximately 8% of estimated world production and 48% of estimated North American production. We are the world’s second largest miner of phosphate rock and currently operate five mines
with a combined annual capacity of approximately 16.4 million tonnes. Production of one tonne of DAP requires between 1.6 and 1.7 tonnes of phosphate rock.

All of our phosphate mines and related mining operations are located in central Florida. During fiscal 2010, we operated five active mines: Four Corners,
South Fort Meade, Hookers Prairie, Hopewell and Wingate. We plan to develop two large mines at Ona and at Pine Level to replace mines that will be depleted, as we continue to operate, at various times during the next decade.

The phosphate deposits of Florida are of sedimentary origin and are part of a phosphate-bearing province that extends from southern Florida north along
the Atlantic coast into southern Virginia. Our active phosphate mines are primarily located in what is known as the Bone Valley Member of the Peace River Formation in the Central Florida Phosphate District. The southern portions of the Four Corners
and Wingate mines are in what is referred to as the Undifferentiated Peace River Formation, in which our future Ona and Pine Level mines would also be located. Phosphate mining has been conducted in the Central Florida Phosphate District since the
late 1800’s. The potentially mineable portion of the district encompasses an area approximately 80 miles in length in a north-south direction and approximately 40 miles in width.

We extract phosphate ore using large surface mining machines that we own called “draglines.” Prior to extracting the ore, the draglines must
first remove a 10 to 50 foot layer of sandy overburden. At our Wingate mine, we also utilize dredges to strip the overburden and mine the ore. We then process the ore at beneficiation plants that we own at each active mine where the ore goes through
washing, screening, sizing and flotation processes designed to separate the phosphate rock from sands, clays and other foreign materials.Prior to commencing operations at any of our planned future mines, we would need to acquire new
draglines or move existing draglines to the mines and, unless the beneficiation plant at an existing mine were used, construct a beneficiation plant.







The following table shows, for each of our phosphate mines, annual capacity at May 31, 2010 and rock
production volume and grade for the past three fiscal years:



(tonnes in millions)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)201020092008FacilityProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)ProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)ProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)Four Corners6.55.666.430.45.164.929.75.665.029.7South Fort Meade6.04.363.028.85.161.928.36.462.128.4Hookers Prairie2.01.864.829.71.664.829.72.364.629.6Wingate1.41.165.029.70.965.530.01.062.928.8Hopewell(d)0.50.568.731.40.570.932.40.568.831.5Total16.413.365.029.813.264.029.315.863.829.2



(a)Actual operating rates vary from those shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products, the
quality of the reserves and the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, weather conditions, and other operating conditions.

(b)Bone Phosphate of Lime (“BPL”) is a traditional reference to the amount (by weight percentage) of calcium phosphate contained
in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher BPL corresponds to a higher percentage of calcium phosphate.

(c)The percent of P2O5in the above table represents a measure of the phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body.

(d)We expect to exhaust the Hopewell mine’s reserves in fiscal 2011.

We also purchase phosphate rock from time to time. The level of our purchases of phosphate rock in the future will depend upon, among other factors, our
phosphate rock mining plans, the status of our permits, our need for additional phosphate rock to allow us to operate our concentrates plants at or near full capacity, the quality and level of impurities in the phosphate rock that we mine, and our
development or acquisition of additional phosphate rock deposits and mines. Depending on product mix and tonnage requirements, our need for purchased phosphate rock could increase in the future in order to meet product specifications, particularly
as we develop our proposed Ona and Pine Level mines. Our recent investment in the Miski Mayo Joint Venture and related commercial offtake supply agreement to purchase a share of the phosphate rock from the Miski Mayo Mine will allow us to reduce our
purchases of phosphate rock from other suppliers, after production begins at the mine.

Reserves

We estimate our phosphate rock reserves based upon exploration core drilling as well as technical and economic analyses to determine that reserves can be
economically mined. Proven (measured) reserves are those resources of sufficient concentration to meet minimum physical, chemical and economic criteria related to our current product standards and mining and production practices. Our estimates of
probable (indicated) reserves are based on information similar to that used for proven reserves, but sites for drilling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced than for proven reserves, although the degree of assurance is high
enough to assume continuity between such sites. Proven reserves are determined using a minimum drill hole spacing of two sites per 40 acre block. Probable reserves have less than two drill holes per 40 acre block, but geological data provides a high
degree of assurance that continuity exists between sites.







The following table sets forth our proven and probable phosphate reserves as of May 31, 2010:



(tonnes in millions)Reserve Tonnes(a) (b) 
(c)Average BPL(d)% 
P2O5Active MinesFour Corners57.5(e)65.530.0South Fort Meade48.362.728.7Hookers Prairie22.8(f)65.830.1Hopewell0.2(g)68.831.5Wingate35.9(h)63.228.9Total Active Mines164.764.229.4Future MiningOna245.5(e)63.429.0Pine Level148.0(i)64.829.6Total Future Mines393.563.929.3Total Mines558.264.029.3



(a)Reserves are in areas that are fully accessible for mining; free of surface or subsurface encumbrance, legal setbacks, wetland preserves and other
legal restrictions that preclude permittable access for mining; believed by us to be permittable; and meet specified minimum physical, economic and chemical criteria related to current mining and production practices.

(b)Reserve estimates are generally established by our personnel without a third party review. There has been no third party review of reserve estimates
within the last five years, except that in fiscal 2008, we engaged a third party to review the recoverable reserves at our Wingate mine’s Tract 2 pursuant to contractual requirements related to our acquisition of these reserves. The reserve
estimates have been prepared in accordance with the standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

(c)Of the reserves shown, 530.4 million tonnes are proven reserves, while approximately 1.6 million tonnes at Ona and 26.2 million tonnes
at Pine Level are probable reserves.

(d)Average product BPL ranges from approximately 63% to 69%.

(e)The reserves shown above reflect a reclassification from the Four Corners mine to the Ona mine of 60.8 million tonnes previously assigned to Four
Corners based on an engineering study completed late in fiscal year 2010.

(f)Of the tonnes shown at Hookers Prairie, our lease of 1.2 million tonnes requires us to pay royalties of $2.00 per short ton of the reserves that
we mine. In addition, our lease of 1.9 million tonnes requires us to pay royalties of $1.25 per short ton that are generally credited against $250,000 advance royalties that we paid when we entered into the lease.

(g)We expect to exhaust the Hopewell mine’s reserves in fiscal 2011.

(h)We acquired Wingate Tract 2, relating to 30.4 million tonnes of the reserves shown for the Wingate mine, in March 2004 pursuant to an agreement
under which we paid the seller approximately $3.4 million in March 2010.

(i)In connection with the sale in 1994 of certain of the surface rights related to approximately 48.9 million tonnes of the reported Pine Level
reserves, we agreed not to mine such reserves until at least 2014. Our current mining plans do not contemplate mining these reserves until at least that time. In addition, in connection with the purchase in 1996 of approximately 99.1 million
tonnes of the reported Pine Level reserves, we agreed to (i) pay royalties of between $0.50 and $0.90 per ton of rock mined based on future levels of DAP margins, (ii) pay to the seller lost income from the loss of surface use to the
extent we use the property for mining related purposes before January 1, 2015 and (iii) re-convey to the seller the lands which are not scheduled to be mined upon completion of the permitting process and the approval of the Development
Order for the mine.







We generally own the reserves shown for active mines in the table above, with the only significant
exceptions being further described below:



•Of the tonnes shown for the Wingate mine, 1.9 million tonnes are under a lease that we have the right to extend through 2014 and for which we have
prepaid substantially all royalties.



•We hold the reserves referred to in Note (e) to the above table under leases that we have rights to extend to 2015 and 2022, respectively.



•We own the above-ground assets of the South Fort Meade mine, including the beneficiation plant, rail track and clay settling areas. A limited
partnership, South Ft. Meade Partnership, L.P. (“SFMP”), owns all of the mineable acres shown in the table for the South Fort Meade mine.



•We own 35% of SFMP and financial investors own the remaining 65%. SFMP is included as a consolidated subsidiary in our financial statements.



•We have a long-term mineral lease with SFMP. This lease expires on December 31, 2025 or on the date that we have completed mining and reclamation
obligations associated with the leased property. Lease provisions include royalty payments and a commitment to give mining priority to the South Fort Meade phosphate reserves. We pay the partnership a royalty on each tonne mined and shipped from the
areas that we lease from it. Royalty payments to SFMP total approximately $13 million annually at current shipment rates.



•Through its arrangements with us, SFMP also earns income from mineral lease payments, agricultural lease payments and interest income, and uses those
proceeds to service debt and pay dividends to its equity owners.



•The surface rights to approximately 619 acres shown in the table above for the South Fort Meade Mine are owned by SFMP, while the U.S. government owns
the mineral rights beneath. We control the rights to mine these reserves under a mining lease agreement and pay royalties on the tonnage extracted. Royalties on the approved leases equal approximately 5% of the six-month rolling average mining cost
of production when mining these reserves. Under the lease, we paid $0.1 million in royalties to the U.S. government in fiscal 2010.

In light of the long-term nature of our rights to our reserves, we expect to be able to mine all reported reserves that are not currently owned prior to
termination or expiration of our rights. Additional information regarding permitting is included in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, under “Environmental, Health and Safety Matters—Operating Requirements and Permitting”
in our Management’s Analysis, and under “Phosphate Mine Permitting in Florida” in Note 21 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sulfur

We use molten sulfur at
our phosphates concentrates plants to produce sulfuric acid primarily for use in our production of phosphoric acid. We purchased approximately 3.2 million long tons of sulfur during fiscal 2010. We purchase most of this sulfur from North
American oil and natural gas refiners who are required to remove or recover sulfur during the refining process. Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately 0.4 long tons of sulfur. We procure our sulfur from multiple sources and receive it
by truck or rail either direct to our phosphate plants or have it sent to terminals for gathering that are located on the US gulf coast.

We
own and operate sulfur terminals in Houston, Texas and in Tampa, Florida. We own two ocean-going barges and contract for operation of another ocean-going vessel that transport molten sulfur from the Texas terminals to Tampa and then onward by truck
to our Florida phosphate plants. We also own a 50% equity interest in Gulf Sulphur Services Ltd., LLLP (“Gulf Sulphur Services”), which is operated by our joint venture partner. Gulf







Sulphur Services has a large sulfur transportation and terminaling business in the Gulf of Mexico, and handles these functions for a substantial portion of our Florida sulfur volume. Gulf Sulphur
Services’ capabilities include melting solid sulfur into the molten form that we use, which permits us to access sources of solid as well as molten sulfur. We further round out our sulfur logistic assets with a large fleet of leased railcars
that supplement our marine sulfur logistic system. Our Louisiana operations are served by truck, rail and barge from nearby refineries.

Although sulfur is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphate facilities by a variety of means, sulfur is an
important raw material used in our business that has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing and availability. Alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve
all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to current transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of sulfur or disruptions to sulfur transportation or terminaling facilities could have a material impact on our business. We
have included a discussion of sulfur prices in our Management’s Analysis.

Ammonia

We use ammonia together with phosphoric acid to produce both DAP and MAP. We used approximately 1.4 million tonnes of ammonia during fiscal 2010.
Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately 0.2 tonnes of ammonia.

Our Florida ammonia needs are supplied by offshore producers,
under multi-year and annual contracts. Ammonia for our New Wales and Riverview plants is terminaled through an ammonia facility at Port Sutton, Florida that we lease for a term expiring in 2013, which we may extend for up to five additional years. A
third party operates the Port Sutton ammonia facility pursuant to an agreement that expires in 2013, which we may extend for an unlimited number of additional five year terms, as long as we or the other party is entitled to operate the ammonia
facility. Ammonia for our Bartow plant is terminaled through another ammonia facility owned and operated by a third party at Port Sutton, Florida pursuant to an agreement that expires in calendar 2010. Ammonia is transported by pipeline from the
terminals to our production facilities. We have a service agreement with the pipeline provider for Bartow that will expire at the end of calendar 2010.

We produce ammonia at Faustina, Louisiana primarily for our own consumption. Our annual capacity is 500,000 tonnes. From time to time we may sell surplus
ammonia to unrelated parties.

Although ammonia is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphates
facilities by a variety of means, ammonia is an important raw material used in our business that has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing, and alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have
sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of ammonia or disruptions to ammonia transportation or terminaling could have a material
impact on our business. We have included a discussion of ammonia prices in our Management’s Analysis.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is the primary raw material used to manufacture ammonia. At our Faustina facility, ammonia is manufactured on site. The
majority of natural gas is purchased through firm delivery contracts based on published index-based prices and is sourced from Texas and Louisiana via pipeline interconnected to the Henry Hub. We use over-the-counter swap and option contracts to
forward price portions of future gas purchases. The portions of gas purchases not forward priced are purchased at the index based prices or at domestic spot market prices under short-term contracts. We purchase approximately 17 million MMbtu of
natural gas per year for use in ammonia production at Faustina.

Because our ammonia requirements for our Florida operations are purchased
rather than manufactured on site, we purchase approximately two million MMbtu of natural gas per year in Florida only as a thermal fuel for various production processes.







Florida Land Holdings

We are a significant landowner in the State of Florida, which in the future is expected to return to its historical status as one of the fastest areas of
population growth in the United States. We own land comprising approximately 250,000 acres held in fee simple title in central Florida, and have the right to mine additional properties which contain phosphate rock reserves. Some of our land
holdings are needed to operate our Phosphates business, while a portion of our land assets, such as reclaimed properties, are not related to our operations. As a general matter, more of our reclaimed property becomes available for uses other than
for phosphate operations each year. Our land assets are generally comprised of concentrates plants, port facilities, phosphate mines and other property which we have acquired through our presence in Florida. We are currently taking initial
steps as part of a long-term future land use strategy to optimize the value of our land assets.

International Production

Our international operations include production in several key international countries. Our production facilities include plants that
produce up to one million tonnes per year of single superphosphate (“SSP”) and granulated SSP crop nutrients by mixing sulfuric acid with phosphate rock. We have agreed to sell one of the SSP production facilities as
described under “Sale of Fosfertil and Cubatão Facility” below.

Sale of Fosfertil and Cubatão Facility

Phosphates operations in Brazil include a 20.1% interest in Fosfertil through a 1.3% direct equity interest in Fosfertil and approximately a
33% equity interest in Fertifos. Fosfertil is a Brazilian publicly traded company and the largest phosphate-based crop nutrient producer in Brazil. Its subsidiary Ultrafertil, S.A., is a significant nitrogen company in Brazil. Fertifos is a holding
company through which several fertilizer companies in Brazil own a 56.7% equity interest in Fosfertil. Our equity in net losses of Fosfertil and Fertifos for fiscal 2010 was $12.1 million.

Phosphates operations in Brazil also include a facility at Cubatão that produces SSP and animal feed ingredients and engages in bagging, blending,
storage and warehouse operations.

On February 10, 2010, we entered into a Share Purchase Agreement and Other Covenants (the
“Share Agreement”) with Vale. In connection with the Share Agreement:



(i)We and Vale entered into an Option Agreement (the “Fosfertil Option Agreement”) pursuant to which we granted Vale a call option to purchase, and
Vale granted us a put option to sell, (such call and put options being collectively referred to as the “Fosfertil Options”) the equity interests in a subsidiary of ours that has been formed to hold our minority equity
interests in Fosfertil and Fertifos; and



(ii)We and Vale entered into an Option Agreement (the “Holdings Option Agreement,” and together with the Share Agreement and the Fosfertil Option
Agreement, the “Transaction Agreements”) pursuant to which we granted Vale a call option to purchase, and Vale granted us a put option to sell, (such put and call options being collectively referred to as the
“Holdings Options” and together with the Fosfertil Options as the “Options”) our equity interests in subsidiaries that we formed to hold our Cubatão facility.

Exercise of the Options is subject to our entering into a definitive stock purchase agreement (the “Stock Purchase Agreement”)
with Vale with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Holdings Option Agreement on terms substantially consistent with those set forth in the Holdings Option Agreement and certain other conditions. If either Vale or we exercise their
respective Options, the sale of the Cubatão facility is expected to follow the closing of the sale of our interests in Fosfertil and Fertifos.

Following the exercise of the Options, our Brazilian operations are expected to continue their fertilizer and animal feed ingredient blending and
distribution operations in Brazil, as well as their production of SSP and port activities at the Paranagua, Brazil complex of Fospar S.A., a 62.1% owned subsidiary (“Fospar”). Accordingly,







in order to facilitate the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, we have segregated our ownership of the Fosfertil and Fertifos stock and the Cubatão facility into
separate subsidiaries. We anticipate that securing the necessary permits and completing other steps that we intend to take prior to the sale of our interests in Fosfertil and Fertifos and the Cubatão facility will be completed in the latter
half of calendar 2010.

Under the Transaction Agreements, in general and subject to certain exceptions:



(i)Vale has agreed to a standstill agreement under which neither it nor its subsidiaries will purchase any phosphate rock, phosphoric acid or phosphate fertilizer or
animal feed ingredient mining or production assets in North America for a period of eighteen months;



(ii)Vale has agreed that neither it nor its subsidiaries will engage in production/distribution or sale in Brazil of physically blended mineral fertilizers for a period of
three years after the closing (the “Fosfertil Option Closing”) of the transactions contemplated by the Fosfertil Option Agreement;



(iii)We have agreed that we will not engage in the phosphate mining business in Brazil for a period of three years after the Fosfertil Option Closing;



(iv)The parties have entered into certain agreements providing, as a condition precedent to the Fosfertil Option Closing, for the termination of certain ongoing legal
proceedings brought by Mosaic Brazil against Fosfertil, Fertifos and certain members of Bunge Group. These legal proceedings are described further under “Fosfertil Merger Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3, “Legal
Proceedings”in this report;



(v)Mosaic and Vale S.A. have guaranteed the obligations of their respective subsidiaries; and



(vi)The parties have also entered into certain other commercial arrangements with respect to Fosfertil’s and the Cubatão facility’s potential continued
supply of certain products and services to us.

The aggregate purchase price for Mosaic’s stakes in Fosfertil and Fertifos
and the Cubatão facility is in excess of $1 billion.

Potash Segment

We are one of the leading potash producers in the world. We mine and process potash in Canada and the United States and sell potash
in North America and internationally. The term “potash” applies generally to the common salts of potassium. Muriate of potash (“MOP”) is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry. Red MOP has
traces of iron oxide. The granular and standard grade Red MOP products are well suited for direct fertilizer application and bulk blending. White MOP has a higher percent
K2O. White MOP, besides being well suited for the
agricultural market, is used in many industrial applications.

Our potash products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers,
distributors and retailers and are also used in the manufacture of mixed crop nutrients and, to a lesser extent, in animal feed ingredients. We also sell potash to customers for industrial use. In addition, our potash products are used for de-icing
and as a water softener regenerant.

We operate three potash mines in Canada, including two shaft mines with a total of three production
shafts and one solution mine, as well as two potash mines in the United States, including one shaft mine and one solution mine. We also own related refineries at each of the mines.







The map below shows the location of each of our potash mines.



Our current potash annualized proven peaking capacity, excluding tonnage produced at Esterhazy for a third party pursuant
to a contract described below, totals 10.4 million tonnes of product per year and accounted for approximately 14% of world capacity and 37% of North American capacity. Production during fiscal 2010, excluding tonnage produced for a third party
at Esterhazy, totaled 5.2 million tonnes and accounted for approximately 12% of estimated world production and 38% of estimated North American production.







The following table shows, for each of our potash mines, capacity at May 31, 2010 and volume of mined
ore, average grade and finished product output for the past three fiscal years:



(tonnes in millions)201020092008FacilityAnnualizedProvenPeakingCapacity(a)(b)(c)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)(b)(d)OreMinedGrade% 
K2O(e)FinishedProductOreMinedGrade% 
K2O(e)FinishedProductOreMinedGrade% 
K2O(e)FinishedProductCanadaBelle Plaine—MOP2.82.35.718.01.56.918.01.88.118.02.1Colonsay—MOP1.81.52.224.90.82.626.61.03.627.21.4Esterhazy—MOP5.34.86.724.12.38.325.13.011.325.54.1Canadian Total9.98.614.621.84.617.822.65.823.023.17.6United StatesCarlsbad—MOP0.60.53.011.20.42.510.20.23.311.50.4Carlsbad—K-Mag®(f)1.11.02.76.70.62.76.40.63.17.20.8Carlsbad Total1.71.55.79.11.05.28.20.86.49.41.2Hersey—MOP(g)0.10.10.126.7-0.226.70.10.226.70.1United States Total1.81.65.81.05.40.96.61.3Totals11.710.220.418.35.623.219.46.729.620.28.9Total excluding tollproduction(h)10.419.35.220.95.926.87.9



(a)Finished product.

(b)Actual operating rates may vary from those shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products,
maintenance and turnaround time, the quality of the reserves and the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

(c)Represents full capacity assuming no turnaround or maintenance time.

(d)Annual operational capacity is our estimated annual achievable production level.

(e)Grade %
K2O is a traditional reference to the percentage (by weight)
of potassium oxide contained in the ore. A higher percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of potassium oxide in the ore.

(f)K-Mag is a specialty product that we produce at our Carlsbad facility.

(g)The Hersey facility also mines, processes and sells salt.

(h)We toll produce MOP at our Esterhazy mine for a third party under a contract discussed below under “Canadian Mines.”

Canadian Mines

We operate three
Canadian potash facilities all located in the southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan, including our solution mine at Belle Plaine, two interconnected mine shafts at our Esterhazy shaft mine and our shaft mine at Colonsay.

Extensive potash deposits are found in the southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan. The potash ore is contained in a predominantly rock salt
formation known as the Prairie Evaporites. The Prairie Evaporites deposits are bounded by limestone formations and contain the potash beds. Three potash deposits of economic importance occur in Saskatchewan: the Esterhazy, Belle Plaine and Patience
Lake members. The Patience Lake member is mined at Colonsay, and the Esterhazy member at Esterhazy. At Belle Plaine all three members are mined. Each of the major potash members contains several potash beds of different thicknesses and grades. The
particular beds mined at Colonsay and Esterhazy have a mining height of 11 and 8 feet, respectively. At Belle Plaine several beds of different thicknesses are mined.







Our potash mines in Canada produce MOP exclusively. Esterhazy and Colonsay utilize shaft mining while Belle
Plaine utilizes solution mining technology. Traditional potash shaft mining takes place underground at depths of over 3,000 feet where continuous mining machines cut out the ore face and load it onto conveyor belts. The ore is then crushed, moved to
storage bins and hoisted to refineries above ground. In contrast, our solution mining process involves heated water, which is pumped through a “cluster” to dissolve the potash in the ore beds at a depth of approximately 5,400 feet. A
cluster consists of a series of boreholes drilled into the potash ore by a portable, all-weather, electric drilling rig. A separate distribution center at each cluster controls the brine flow. The solution containing dissolved potash and salt is
pumped to a refinery where sodium chloride, a co-product of this process, is separated from the potash through the use of evaporation and crystallization techniques. Concurrently, the solution is pumped into a 150 acre cooling pond where additional
crystallization occurs and the resulting product is recovered via a floating dredge. Refined potash is dewatered, dried and sized. Our Canadian operations produce 15 different MOP products, including industrial grades, many through proprietary
processes.

PCS Tolling Contract

PCS

Our potash mineral rights in the Province of Saskatchewan consist of the
following:



Belle PlaineColonsayEsterhazyTotalAcres under controlOwned in fee13,21310,039109,196132,448Leased from Province51,56865,429137,735254,732Leased from others-32022,83723,157Total under control64,78175,788269,768410,337

We believe that our mineral rights in Saskatchewan are sufficient to
support current operations for more than a century. Leases are generally renewable at our option for successive terms, generally 21 years each, except that certain of the acres shown above as “Leased from others” are leased under long-term
leases with terms (including renewals at our option) that expire from 2094 to 2142.

We pay Canadian resource taxes consisting of the Potash
Production Tax and capital taxes. The Potash Production Tax is a Saskatchewan provincial tax on potash production and consists of a base payment and a profits tax. We also pay the greater of (i) a capital tax on the paid-up capital of our
subsidiaries that own and operate our Saskatchewan potash mines or (ii) a percentage of the value of resource sales from our Saskatchewan mines and we pay capital tax in other Canadian provinces. In addition to the Canadian resource taxes,
royalties are payable to the mineral owners in respect of potash reserves or production of potash. We have included a further discussion of the Canadian resource taxes and royalties in our Management’s Analysis.







Since December 1985, we have experienced an inflow of salt saturated brine into our Esterhazy mine. At
various times since then, we have experienced new or substantially increased brine inflows at the Esterhazy mine. As a result of these brine inflows, we incur expenditures, certain of which have been capitalized while others have been charged to
expense, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”), to control the inflow. It is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at Esterhazy may further increase in
the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. See
“Potash Net Sales and Gross Margin” in our Management’s Analysis and “Accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for
significant safety or other expenditures” in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this report, both of which are incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine
inflows.

Due to the ongoing brine inflow problem at Esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water
incursion problems. Like other potash producers’ shaft mines, our Colonsay, Saskatchewan, and Carlsbad, New Mexico, mines are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of their shaft mining operations, but water inflow risks at
these mines are included in our insurance coverage subject to deductibles, retentions and limits negotiated with our insurers.

We have a long
term potash capacity expansion plan in Saskatchewan, Canada in response to expected growth in global potash demand. We expect the total planned expansions to increase our annualized proven peaking capacity for finished product by more than
five million tonnes. The expansions are projected to occur over the next decade, with the first expansion production expected to come on line in calendar 2010. We have included a further discussion of our potash capacity expansion plan in our
Management’s Analysis.

United States Mines

In the United States, we have two potash facilities, including a shaft mine located in Carlsbad, New Mexico and a solution mine located in Hersey,
Michigan.

Our potash mineral rights in the United States consist of the following:



CarlsbadHerseyTotalAcres under controlOwned in fee-581581Long-term leases73,7811,79975,580Total under control73,7812,38076,161

The Carlsbad ore reserves are of two types: (1) sylvinite, a
mixture of potassium chloride and sodium chloride that is the same as the ore mined in Saskatchewan, and (2) langbeinite, a double sulfate of potassium and magnesium. These two types of potash reserves occur in a predominantly rock salt
formation known as the Salado Formation. The McNutt Member of this formation consists of eleven units of economic importance, of which we currently mine two. The McNutt Member’s evaporite deposits are interlayered with anhydrite, polyhalite,
potassium salts, clay, and minor amounts of sandstone and siltstone.

Continuous underground mining methods are utilized to extract the ore.
Drum type mining machines are used to cut the sylvinite and langbeinite ores from the face. Mined ore is then loaded onto conveyors, transported to storage areas, and then hoisted to the surface for further processing at our refinery.

Two types of potash are produced at the Carlsbad refinery. MOP is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry.
Double sulfate of potash magnesia is the second type of potash, which we market under our brand name K-Mag®, and
contains sulfur, potassium and magnesium, with low levels of chloride.







At the Carlsbad facility, we mine and refine potash from 73,781 acres of mineral rights.
We control these reserves pursuant to either (i) leases from the U.S. government that, in general, continue in effect at our option (subject to readjustment by the U.S. government every 20 years) or (ii) leases from the State of New Mexico
that continue as long as we continue to produce from them. These reserves contain an estimated total of 294 million tonnes of potash mineralization (calculated after estimated extraction losses) in two mining beds evaluated at thicknesses
ranging from 4.5 feet to in excess of 11 feet. At average refinery rates, these ore reserves are estimated to be sufficient to yield 16 million tonnes of concentrates from sylvinite with an average grade of approximately 60%
K2O and 28 million tonnes of langbeinite concentrates
with an average grade of approximately 22% K2O. At projected
rates of production, we estimate that Carlsbad’s reserves of sylvinite and langbeinite are sufficient to support operations for more than 32 years and 25 years, respectively. During fiscal 2010, we increased the reserves at our Carlsbad
facility by 180 million tonnes because we entered into leases that provided access to mineral rights that were previously not economical to mine, and because increased potash selling prices made areas of lower grade ore economical to mine.

At Hersey, Michigan, we operate a solution mining facility which produces salt and potash. Mining occurs in the Michigan Basin in a
predominantly rock salt formation called the Salina Group Evaporite. This formation is a clean salt deposit with interlayered beds of sylvinite and carbonate. At the Hersey facility, our mineral rights consist of 581 acres owned in fee and 1,799
acres controlled under leases that, in general, continue in effect at our option as long as we continue our operations at Hersey. These lands contain an estimated 40 million tonnes of potash mineralization contained in two beds ranging in
thickness from 14 to 30 feet.

Royalties for the U.S. operations amounted to approximately $9.6 million for fiscal 2010. These royalties are
established by the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, in the case of the Carlsbad leases from the U.S. government, and pursuant to provisions set forth in the leases, in the case of the Carlsbad state leases and the Hersey
leases.

Reserves

Our estimates below of our potash reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization are based on exploration drill hole data, seismic data and actual mining
results over more than 35 years. Proven reserves are estimated by identifying material in place that is delineated on at least two sides and material in place within a half-mile radius or distance from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration
core hole. Probable reserves are estimated by identifying material in place within a one mile radius from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Historical extraction ratios from the many years of mining results are then applied to
both types of material to estimate the proven and probable reserves. We believe that all reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization reported below are potentially recoverable using existing production shaft and refinery locations.







Our estimated recoverable potash reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization as of May 31, 2010 for
each of our mines is as follows:



(tonnes in millions)Reserves(a)(b)PotashMineralization(a)(c)FacilityRecoverableTonnesAverageGrade(% K2O)PotentiallyRecoverableTonnesCanadaBelle Plaine687.218.02,160.7Colonsay232.926.4224.0Esterhazy593.524.5409.4sub-totals1,513.621.82,794.1United StatesCarlsbad294.37.4-Hersey39.726.7-sub-totals334.09.7-Totals1,847.619.62,794.1



(a)There has been no third party review of reserve estimates within the last four years. The reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the
standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the SEC.

(b)Includes both proven and probable reserves.

(c)The non-reserve potash mineralization reported in the table in some cases extends to the boundaries of the mineral rights we own or lease. Such
boundaries are up to 16 miles from the closest existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Based on available geologic data, the non-reserve potash mineralization represents potash that we expect to mine in the future, but it may not meet
all of the technical requirements for categorization as proven or probable reserves under Industry Guide 7.

As discussed
more fully above, we either own the reserves and mineralization shown above or lease them pursuant to mineral leases that generally remain in effect or are renewable at our option, or are long-term leases. Accordingly, we expect to be able to mine
all reported reserves that are leased prior to termination or expiration of the existing leases.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is used at our potash solution mines as a fuel to produce steam and to dry potash products. The steam is used to generate electricity, in
evaporation and crystallization processes and to provide thermal heat to the solution mining process. Our two solution mines accounted for approximately 76% of our Potash segment’s total natural gas requirements for potash production in fiscal
2010. At our shaft mines, natural gas is used as a fuel to heat fresh air supplied to the shaft mines and for drying potash products. Combined natural gas usage for both the solution and shaft mines approximated 12 million MMbtu for fiscal
2010. We purchase our natural gas requirements on firm delivery index price-based physical contracts and on short term spot-priced physical contracts. Our Canadian operations purchase all of their physical gas in Saskatchewan via the TransGas
pipeline system using AECO price indices as pricing references. The U.S. potash operations in Michigan and New Mexico purchase physical gas in their respective regional markets via the MichCon and El Paso Permian Basin market hubs as pricing
references, respectively. We use financial derivative contracts to manage the price of portions of our future purchases.







SALES AND DISTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES

United States and Canada

We
have a United States and Canada sales and marketing team that serves our business segments. We sell to wholesale distributors, retail chains, cooperatives, independent retailers and national accounts.

Customer service and the ability to effectively minimize the overall supply chain costs are key competitive factors in the crop nutrient and animal feed
ingredients businesses. In addition to our production facilities, to service the needs of our customers, we own, lease or have contractual throughput or other arrangements at strategically located distribution warehouses along or near the
Mississippi and Ohio Rivers as well as in other key agricultural regions of the United States and Canada. From these facilities, we market Mosaic produced phosphate and potash products for customers who in turn resell the product into the
distribution channel or directly to farmers in the United States and Canada.

We own port facilities in Savage, Minnesota as well as warehouse
distribution facilities in Pekin, Illinois, Louisville, Kentucky, Hendersonville, Kentucky, Melbourne, Kentucky and Houston, Texas which has a deep water berth providing access to the Gulf of Mexico.

In addition to the geographically situated facilities that we own, our U.S. distribution operations also include leased distribution space or contractual
throughput agreements in other key geographical areas such as California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania and Texas.

Our Canadian customers include independent dealers and national accounts. We also lease and own warehouse facilities in Saskatchewan, Canada.

International

Outside of the
United States and Canada, we market our Phosphates segment’s products through PhosChem, as well as our Phosphates segment’s own international distribution activities. During fiscal 2010, PhosChem marketed approximately 77% of our phosphate
export sales volume. We administer PhosChem on behalf of PhosChem’s member companies. We estimate that PhosChem’s sales represent approximately 66% of total U.S. export volume of concentrated phosphates. The countries that account for the
largest amount of PhosChem’s sales of concentrated phosphates include India, Australia, Japan, Brazil and Colombia. During fiscal 2010, PhosChem’s dry concentrated phosphates exports to Asia were 64% of total dry shipments by volume, with
India representing 51% of PhosChem’s total dry concentrated phosphates export shipments.

Our sales outside of the United States and
Canada of Saskatchewan potash products are made through Canpotex Limited (“Canpotex”). Canpotex is an export association of certain Canadian potash producers. Canpotex sales are generally allocated among the producer members
based on production capacity. We currently supply approximately 37.1%, by volume, of Canpotex’s requirements. Our potash exports from Carlsbad are sold through our own sales force. We also market our Potash segment’s products through our
Phosphates segment, which acquires its potash primarily through Canpotex. The largest amount of international potash sales are to China, India, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Southeast Asia, Australia and Latin America.

Our Phosphates segment also purchases phosphates, potash and nitrogen products from, or markets these products for, unrelated third parties.

To service the needs of our customers, our international distribution activities include a network of strategically located sales offices, crop nutrient
blending and bagging facilities, port terminals and warehouse distribution facilities that we own and operate in key geographic areas throughout several countries. The blending and bagging facilities primarily produce blended crop nutrients
(“Blends”) from phosphate, potash and nitrogen. The







average product mix in our Blends (by volume) contains approximately 50% phosphate, 25% potash and 25% nitrogen, although this mix differs based on seasonal and other factors. Our international
operations serve primarily as a sales outlet for our North American Phosphates production, both for resale and as an input for Blends, and we expect to expand this role in the future. Our Potash segment also has historically furnished a portion of
the raw materials needs for the production of Blends, and is expected to continue to do so in the future.

The following maps show the
locations of our primary distribution operations in South America and Asia:





Other Products

With a strong brand position in a multi-billion dollar animal feed ingredients global market, our Phosphates segment supplies animal feed ingredients for
poultry and livestock to customers in North America, Latin America and Asia. Our potash sales to non-agricultural users are primarily to large industrial accounts and the animal feed industry. Additionally, we sell potash for de-icing and as a
water softener regenerant.

COMPETITION

Because crop nutrients are global commodities available from numerous sources, crop nutrition companies compete primarily on the basis of delivered
price. Other competitive factors include product quality, cost and availability of raw materials, customer service, plant efficiency and availability of product. As a result, markets for our products are highly competitive. We compete with a broad
range of domestic and international producers, including farmer cooperatives, subsidiaries of larger companies, and independent crop nutrient companies. Foreign competitors often have access to cheaper raw materials, are required to comply with less
stringent regulatory requirements or are owned or subsidized by governments and, as a result, may have cost advantages over North American companies. We believe that our extensive North American and international production and distribution system
provides us with a competitive advantage by allowing us to achieve economies of scale and transportation and storage efficiencies and obtain market intelligence.

Unlike many of our competitors, we have our own distribution system to sell phosphate- and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients,
whether produced by us or by other third parties, around the globe. In North America, we have one of the largest and most strategically located distribution systems for crop nutrients,







including warehouse facilities in key agricultural regions. We also have an extensive network of distribution facilities internationally, including in the key growth markets of Latin America and
Asia, with port terminals, warehouses, and blending plants in Brazil, Argentina, Chile, China, and India. Our global presence allows us to efficiently serve customers in more than 40 countries.

Phosphates Segment

Our Phosphates segment operates in a highly competitive global market. Among the competitors in the global phosphate industry are
domestic and foreign companies, as well as foreign government-supported producers in Asia and North Africa. Phosphate producers compete primarily based on price and, to a lesser extent, product quality, service and innovation, such as our
MicroEssentials®product. Major integrated producers of feed phosphates are located in the United States, Europe
and China. Many smaller producers are located in emerging markets around the world. Many of these smaller producers are not miners of phosphate rock or manufacturers of phosphoric acid and are required to purchase this material on the open market.

We believe that we are a low cost producer of phosphate-based crop nutrients, due in part to our scale, vertical integration and strategic
network of production and distribution facilities. As the world’s largest producer of concentrated phosphates, as well as the second largest miner of phosphate rock in the world and the largest in the United States, we maintain an advantage
over some competitors as the scale of operations effectively reduces production costs per unit. We are also vertically integrated to captively supply one of our key inputs, phosphate rock, to our phosphate production facilities. We believe that our
position as an integrated producer of phosphate rock provides us with a significant cost advantage over competitors that are non-integrated phosphate producers. We produce ammonia at our Faustina concentrates plant in quantities sufficient to meet
approximately one quarter of our total ammonia needs. With no captive ammonia production in Florida, we are subject to significant volatility in our purchase price of ammonia from world markets. With our own sulfur transportation barges and our 50%
ownership interest in Gulf Sulphur Services, we are also well-positioned to source an adequate, flexible and cost-effective supply of sulfur, our third key input. We believe that our investments in sulfur infrastructure provide us with a significant
competitive advantage in both cost and access to sulfur.

With production facilities in both central Florida near the Port of Tampa and in
Louisiana on the Mississippi River, we are logistically positioned to supply both domestic and international customers as well as transport rock, sulfur and ammonia easily. In addition, those multiple production points afford us the flexibility to
optimally balance supply and demand.

We have a strong brand in several of the countries in which we have international distribution
activities. In addition to having access to our own production, our international distribution activities have the capability to supply all three types of crop nutrients to our dealer/farmer customer base. Our presence in Latin America and Asia
allows us to capitalize on the growth in nutrient demand in these large and growing international regions. In addition, our relationships with Cargill’s agricultural operations provide our international distribution activities with additional
sales opportunities.

We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations in Florida and Louisiana that are often more stringent than
those to which producers in other countries are subject.

Potash Segment

Potash is a commodity available from several geographical regions around the world and, consequently, the market is highly competitive. Through our
participation in Canpotex, we compete outside of North America with various independent potash producers and consortia as well as other export organizations, including state-owned organizations. We also ship product from Carlsbad, New Mexico, potash
facility to our South American distribution centers. Our principal methods of competition with respect to the sale of potash include product pricing, and offering consistent, high-quality products and superior service. We believe that our potash
cost structure is competitive in the industry and should improve as we achieve the expected increases in production from our planned expansions.







FACTORS AFFECTING DEMAND

We sell products throughout the world. Unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting
trade; unexpected changes in tax and trade treaties; strengthening or weakening of foreign economies as well as political relations with the United States may cause sales trends to customers in one or more foreign countries to differ from sales
trends in the United States.

Our international operations are subject to risks from changes in foreign currencies, which can affect farmer
economics.

OTHER MATTERS

Employees

We had approximately
7,500 employees as of May 31, 2010, consisting of approximately 3,000 salaried and 4,500 hourly employees.

Labor Relations

As of May 31, 2010:



•We had nine collective bargaining agreements with unions covering approximately 72% of our hourly employees in the U.S. and Canada. Of these employees,
approximately 35% are covered under collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire in fiscal 2011.



•Agreements with eight unions covered all employees in Brazil, representing 68% of our international employees. More than one agreement may govern our
relations with each of these unions. In general, the agreements are renewable on an annual basis.



•We also had collective bargaining agreements with unions covering employees in several other countries.

Failure to renew any of our union agreements could result in a strike or labor stoppage that could have a material adverse affect on our operations.
However, we have not experienced a significant work stoppage in many years and consider our labor relations to be good.







Financial Information about our Business Segments and Operations by Geographic Areas

We have included financial information about our business segments, our operations by geographic area and our revenues by class of
similar products in Note 23 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Information Available on our Website

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, filed with the SEC pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder are made available free of charge on our website, (www.mosaicco.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on our website is not being incorporated in this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding our executive officers as of July 22, 2010 is set forth below. Each of our executive
officers has served in the positions listed in the table below since the Combination, except as expressly indicated below:



NameAgePositionNorman B. Beug58Senior Vice President—Potash OperationsAnthony T. Brausen51Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting OfficerGary “Bo” N. Davis58Vice President—Phosphate OperationsRichard L. Mack42Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryRichard N. McLellan53Senior Vice President—CommercialJames “Joc” C. O’Rourke49Executive Vice President—OperationsJames T. Prokopanko57Chief Executive Officer, President and DirectorCindy C. Redding51Vice President—Human ResourcesLawrence W. Stranghoener56Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerLinda Thrasher44Vice President—Public Affairs

Norman B. Beug.
Mr. Beug was elected as Senior Vice President—Potash Operations in October 2006. Prior to the Combination, Mr. Beug was the Vice President and General Manager of IMC’s Potash Business Segment from February 2003 through October
2004. In addition, Mr. Beug became Vice President—Potash Operations of Mosaic in June 2004. Mr. Beug joined a predecessor of IMC in 1977. Mr. Beug’s prior service for IMC and its predecessor companies included a variety of
supervisory and management positions in the potash business.

Anthony T. Brausen. Mr. Brausen became Vice President—Finance
and Chief Accounting Officer of Mosaic in April 2006. Prior to joining Mosaic as an employee in February 2006, Mr. Brausen had been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Tennant Company, a designer, manufacturer and marketer of floor
maintenance and outdoor cleaning equipment, chemical-free cleaning technologies, specialty surface coatings and related products, since March 2000. From 1989-2000, Mr. Brausen held several financial management positions, including Vice
President and Treasurer, Assistant Controller and Director of Investor Relations, with International Multifoods Corporation, a diversified publicly-traded food processor and distributor. From 1981-1989, Mr. Brausen held various positions
with KPMG LLP.

Gary “Bo” N. Davis.Mr. Davis was elected Vice President—Phosphate Operations of Mosaic in June
2010. Previously, Mr. Davis had served as Vice-President—Phosphate Operations for all of Mosaic’s Florida and







Louisiana operations since 2007 and Vice President of Mining since Mosaic’s formation in 2004. Prior to the Combination, Mr. Davis held several positions at Cargill, including Vice
President, Operations for the fertilizer division from 1999 to 2004. Mr. Davis has worked in the crop nutrient industry for over 30 years.

Richard L. Mack.Effective January 1, 2009, Mr. Mack was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.
Mr. Mack served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Mosaic since its formation in 2004. Mr. Mack also provides executive oversight for Mosaic’s land development and permitting organizations. Prior to
the formation of Mosaic in 2004, Mr. Mack was a Senior Attorney in Cargill’s worldwide law department and a co-founder of Cargill’s venture capital business unit.

Richard N. McLellan.Mr. McLellan was elected as Senior Vice President—Commercial in April 2007. Previously, Mr. McLellan had
served us as our Vice President—North American Sales since December 2005 and as Country Manager for our (and, prior to the Combination, Cargill’s) Brazilian crop nutrient business since November, 2002. Mr. McLellan joined Cargill in
1989 and held various roles in its Canadian and U.S. operations, including grain, retail and wholesale crop nutrient distribution.

James
“Joc” C. O’Rourke.Mr. O’Rourke became Executive Vice President—Operations of Mosaic in January 2009. Prior to joining Mosaic, Mr. O’Rourke was President, Australia Pacific for Barrick Gold Corporation,
the largest gold producer in Australia, since May 2006, where he was responsible for the Australia Pacific Business Unit consisting of ten gold and copper mines in Australia and Papua New Guinea. Before that, Mr. O’Rourke was Executive
General Manager Australia and Managing Director of Placer Dome Asia Pacific Ltd., the second largest gold producer in Australia, from December 2004, where he was responsible for the Australia Business Unit consisting of five gold and copper mines;
and General Manager Western Australia Operations for Iluka Resources Ltd., the world’s largest zircon and second largest titanium producer, from September 2003, where he was responsible for six mining and concentrating operations and two
mineral separation/synthetic rutile refineries. Mr. O’Rourke had previously held various management, engineering and other roles in the mining industry in Canada and Australia since 1984.

James T. Prokopanko.Mr. Prokopanko became our President and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2007. Until joining us as Executive
Vice President and Chief Operating Officer on July 31, 2006, Mr. Prokopanko was a Corporate Vice President of Cargill since 2004. He was Cargill’s Corporate Vice President with executive responsibility for procurement from 2002 to
2006 and a platform leader responsible for Cargill’s Ag Producer Services Platform from 1999 to July 2006. After joining Cargill in 1978, Mr. Prokopanko served in a wide range of leadership positions, including being named Vice President
of North American crop inputs business in 1995. During his Cargill career, Mr. Prokopanko was engaged in retail agriculture businesses in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Argentina and the United Kingdom. Mr. Prokopanko resigned from all
of his current positions with Cargill and its subsidiaries (other than Mosaic) in connection with his election as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Mosaic. Mr. Prokopanko has served as a director of Mosaic since October
2004 and served as a member of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the Environmental, Health and Safety Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors since his election to the Board through July 31, 2006.

Cindy C. Redding.Ms. Redding was elected as Vice President-Human Resources effective July 30, 2007. Ms. Redding was previously
Vice President-Human Resources of MDU Resources Group, Inc., a provider of value-added natural resource products and related services for energy and transportation infrastructure, since July 2003, and its Director of Human Resources from
December 2002 to July 2003. Before that, Ms. Redding served from July 1998 until December 2002 in the positions of Director, Human Resources, Molded Plastics Division, as Corporate Benefits Planning & Delivery Manager, and as Manager,
Strategic Staffing Services, for Sonoco Products Company, a global packaging company. Prior to that, Ms. Redding worked for Abbott Laboratories, a global health care company, as Manager, Human Resources, Abbott International Division, from 1997
to 1998. From 1980 to 1997, Ms. Redding worked in various business administration and human resource roles, domestic and international, for Amoco Corporation, a world-wide integrated energy company.







Lawrence W. Stranghoener.Mr. Stranghoener joined us as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer in October 2004. He previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Thrivent Financial for Lutherans and its predecessor organization from January 1, 2001 until October 2004, where he had
responsibility over the organization’s investments, finance and related functions. Prior to that, from 1983 through December 1999, Mr. Stranghoener worked in various senior management positions with Honeywell, Inc. in the United States and
Europe, including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Business Development, Vice President of Finance, Director of Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis and Director of Investor Relations. In December 1999, following
the Honeywell-AlliedSignal merger, Mr. Stranghoener joined Techies.com of Edina, Minnesota, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Linda Thrasher. Prior to the Combination, Ms. Thrasher was the Director of Public Policy for Cargill’s Washington, D.C. office since
joining Cargill in 1994. In addition, Ms. Thrasher became Vice President—Public Affairs of Mosaic on June 14, 2004. Ms. Thrasher handled extensive legislative and regulatory issues for Cargill’s crop nutrient, salt
and steel businesses and spent significant time working on environmental and trade issues.

Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement dated as
of January 26, 2004, as amended, between Cargill and Mosaic, during the four year period that commenced on the October 22, 2004 effective date of the Combination and has now expired, Cargill and Mosaic had agreed to, among other things,
take (and cause to be taken, including, without limitation, in the case of Cargill, to the extent permitted by applicable law, causing its representatives or designees on the Board of Directors to take) all commercially reasonable actions and agree
to exercise all authority under applicable law to cause such individual as designated by Cargill for such purpose to be elected as our Chief Executive Officer and President. Pursuant to such provisions, Mr. Prokopanko was elected as our Chief
Executive Officer and President.

Our executive officers are generally elected to serve until their respective successors are elected and
qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. No “family relationships,” as that term is defined in Item 401(d) of Regulation S-K, exist among any of the listed officers.

