Item 1. Business.

OVERVIEW

The Mosaic Company is the world’s leading producer and marketer of combined concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients for the global
agriculture industry. Through our broad product offering, we are a single source supplier of phosphate- and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients. We serve customers in approximately 40 countries. We mine phosphate rock in Florida
and process rock into finished phosphate products at facilities in Florida and Louisiana. We mine potash in Saskatchewan, New Mexico and Michigan. We have other production, blending or distribution operations in Brazil, China, India, Argentina, and
Chile, and a strategic equity investment in a new phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region in Peru. Our operations include in the top four nutrient-consuming countries in the world.

The Mosaic Company is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in March 2004 and serves as the parent company of the business that was formed through the October 2004 combination of IMC Global Inc.
and the fertilizer businesses of Cargill, Incorporated. On May 25, 2011, we consummated the first in a series of transactions intended to result in the split-off and orderly distribution of Cargill, Incorporated’s then approximately 64%
equity interest in us through a series of public offerings. Further information regarding this transaction is described under “Cargill Transaction” in this report. We are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker
symbol “MOS” and are headquartered in Plymouth, Minnesota.

We conduct our business through wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries
as well as businesses in which we own less than a majority or a non-controlling interest. We are organized into two reportable business segments: Phosphates and Potash. The following chart shows the respective contributions to fiscal 2012 sales
volumes, net sales and operating earnings for each of these business segments:





Phosphates Segment— We are the largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and one of the largest
producers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in the United States. We sell phosphate-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients throughout North America and internationally. Our Phosphates segment also includes our North American and
international distribution activities. Our distribution activities include sales offices, port terminals and warehouses in the United States, Canada, and several other key international countries. In addition, the international distribution
activities include blending, bagging and production facilities in Brazil, China, India, Argentina and Chile. We accounted for approximately 13% of estimated global production and 58% of estimated North American production of concentrated phosphate
crop nutrients during fiscal 2012.







Potash Segment —We are the fourth-largest producer of potash in the world. We sell potash
throughout North America and internationally, principally as fertilizer, but also for use in industrial applications and, to a lesser degree, as animal feed ingredients. We accounted for approximately 12% of estimated global potash production and
39% of estimated North American potash production during fiscal 2012.

As used in this report:



•“Mosaic” means The Mosaic Company, both before and after the Merger described below under “Cargill Transaction”;



•“GNS” means the company known as GNS II (U.S.) Corp. until it was renamed The Mosaic Company in connection with the Merger;



•“MOS Holdings” means the company known as The Mosaic Company until it was renamed MOS Holdings Inc. in connection with the
Merger;



•“we”, “us”, and “our” refer to Mosaic and its direct and indirect subsidiaries,
individually or in any combination;



•“IMC” means IMC Global Inc.;



•“Cargill” means Cargill, Incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination;



•“Cargill Crop Nutrition” means the crop nutrient business we acquired from Cargill in the Combination;



•“Combination” means the October 22, 2004 combination of IMC and Cargill Crop Nutrition;



•“Cargill Transaction” means the transactions described below under “Cargill Transaction”;



•“MAC Trusts” means the Margaret A. Cargill foundation established under the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as
amended, and the Anne Ray Charitable Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended;



•“Merger” means a Merger that occurred on May 25, 2011 as part of the transaction described below under “Cargill
Transaction.” The Merger was between a subsidiary of GNS and MOS Holdings and had the effect of recapitalizing our Common Stock and making GNS the parent company of MOS Holdings. Prior to the Merger, GNS was a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
company then known as The Mosaic Company. In the Merger, all of the outstanding stock of MOS Holdings was converted, on a one-for-one basis, into GNS stock. In connection with the Merger, the company formerly known as The Mosaic Company was renamed
MOS Holdings Inc. and GNS was renamed The Mosaic Company. Following the Merger, our common stock continues to trade under the ticker symbol MOS;



•references in this report to a particular fiscal year are to the twelve months ended May 31 of that year; and



•“tonne” or “tonnes” means a metric tonne or tonnes of 2,205 pounds each unless we specifically state
that we mean short or long tons.







Cargill Transaction

Following Cargill’s fiscal 2011 split-off (the “Split-off”) and debt exchange (the “Debt Exchange”) in which it divested its approximately 64% equity
interest in us, in fiscal 2012 we completed several additional transactions in furtherance of the planned orderly distribution of our stock that Cargill stockholders (the “Exchanging Cargill Stockholders”) acquired from it in
the Split-off.



•On September 29, 2011, we converted 20.7 million shares of our Class A Common Stock, Series A-4, to Common Stock in connection with
their sale in an underwritten public secondary offering by the MAC Trusts.



•On October 6, 2011, our stockholders approved the conversion of each of our 113.0 million outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock on a
one-for-one basis into shares of the corresponding series of Class A Common Stock.



•On November 17, 2011, we purchased an aggregate 21.3 million shares of our Class A Common Stock, Series A-4, from the MAC Trusts. The
purchase price was $54.58 per share, the closing price for our Common Stock on November 16, 2011, resulting in a total purchase price of approximately $1.2 billion. This repurchase completed the disposition of the 157.0 million shares
designated to be sold during the 15-month period following the Split-off by Exchanging Cargill Stockholders and by Cargill debtholders who received our stock in the Debt Exchange.

All other shares (approximately 128.8 million shares in the aggregate) of our stock received by the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders in the Split-off
and not sold in the underwritten public secondary offering that occurred on May 25, 2011 immediately following the Split-off are generally subject to transfer restrictions and are to be released in three equal annual installments beginning on
November 26, 2013, unless they are sold prior to the release date. We would, at the request of the MAC Trusts or at our own election, register certain of our shares for sale in a secondary offering that could occur each year beginning
May 26, 2013. The maximum number of shares that may be included in each such offering is to be determined by the lead underwriter chosen by us for such offering.

Following May 23, 2016, the MAC Trusts will have two rights to request that we file a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, pursuant to which the MAC Trusts could sell any
remaining shares they received in the Split-off.

Our agreements with Cargill and the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders also contain additional
provisions relating to private and market sales under specified conditions.

We have included additional information about the Cargill
Transaction in Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements and in response to Item 13 of Part II of this report, which information is incorporated herein by reference, and the principal transaction documents related to the Cargill
Transaction are incorporated by reference as exhibits to this report.

Other Business Developments during Fiscal 2012

We continued to execute on our strategic and other priorities. At the core of our strategy is a plan to extend our resource base and
invest in the growth of both phosphates and potash. In fiscal 2012, we took the following steps:



•We continued the expansion of capacity in our Potash segment, in line with our view of the long-term fundamentals of increasing global demand in that
business. From the inception of our planned brownfield expansions, we expect to increase our annual proven peaking capacity for finished product by approximately five million tonnes by the end of the decade. At our Esterhazy mine K2 shaft and mill,







we have substantially completed our expansion and anticipate the full capacity of an estimated incremental 0.7 million tonnes to be available in fiscal 2013. We are positioning our expansion
projects with flexibility in timing so we are able to bring the additional capacity on line when market demand warrants.



•We set a new record for sales of the premium product MicroEssentials®(“MES”). MES sales increased approximately 30% in the current fiscal year from the prior fiscal year. We completed new manufacturing capacity
and is now able to produce 2.3 million tonnes of MES per year.



•On September 23, 2011, Standard and Poor’s included us in the S&P 500 index.



•On October 24, 2011, we completed a $750 million public debt offering consisting of $450 million aggregate principal amount of 3.750% Senior Notes
due 2021 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due 2041.



•On December 1, 2011, we redeemed the remaining $469.3 million aggregate principal amount of the 7-5/8% Senior Notes due 2016 of our subsidiary MOS
Holdings. We recorded a pre-tax charge of approximately $20 million in other expense, primarily related to the call premium.



•On December 7, 2011, we reached a settlement that will end our obligation to supply potash to Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc.
(“PCS”) from our Esterhazy mine under a tolling agreement (the “Tolling Agreement”) at the beginning of calendar 2013. Under the Tolling Agreement, we have been delivering up to approximately
1.1 million tonnes of potash per year. In addition, effective December 31, 2012, we will receive credit for 1.3 million tonnes of capacity (the “Tolling Agreement Peaking Capacity”) at our Esterhazy mine for
purposes of calculating our relative share of annual sales of potash to international customers by Canpotex Limited (“Canpotex”), an export association of certain Canadian potash producers.



•On February 21, 2012, we announced that we had settled the pending court proceedings over the federal wetlands permit for the extension of our
South Fort Meade, Florida, phosphate rock mine into Hardee County (the “Hardee County Extension Permit Litigation”). We received final court approval of the settlement on March 28, 2012. Preliminary injunctions entered
in connection with this lawsuit had resulted in shutdowns or reduced production at our South Fort Meade mine. The settlement resulted in a pre-tax charge of approximately $13 million included in other operating expenses. As a result of the
settlement, we will be able to resume full production at our South Fort Meade mine by the end of first quarter of fiscal 2013.

We have included additional information about these and other developments in our business during fiscal 2012 in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations (“Management’s Analysis”) and in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

The discussion below of our business segment operations should be read in conjunction with the following
information that we have included in this report:



•The risk factors discussed in this report in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”



•Our Management’s Analysis.



•The financial statements and supplementary financial information in our Consolidated Financial Statements (“Consolidated Financial
Statements”). This information is incorporated by reference in this report in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”







Phosphates Segment

Our Phosphates business segment owns and operates mines and production facilities in Florida which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and phosphate-based animal feed ingredients, and processing
plants in Louisiana which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. Our Phosphates segment’s results include our North American distribution activities and the consolidated results of Phosphate Chemicals Export Association, Inc.
(“PhosChem”), a U.S. Webb-Pomerene Act association of phosphate producers which exports concentrated phosphate crop nutrient products around the world for us and PhosChem’s other member.

U.S. Phosphate Crop Nutrients and Animal Feed Ingredients

We are the largest producer of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients in the world. Our U.S. phosphates operations have capacity to produce approximately 4.3 million tonnes
of phosphoric acid (“P2O5”) per year, or about 9% of world capacity and about 45% of North American capacity. Phosphoric acid is produced by reacting finely ground phosphate rock with sulfuric acid.
Phosphoric acid is the key building block for the production of high analysis or concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and animal feed products, and is the most comprehensive measure of phosphate capacity and production and a commonly used benchmark
in our industry. Our U.S. phosphoric acid production totaled approximately 3.9 million tonnes during fiscal 2012 and accounted for approximately 10% of estimated global production and 45% of estimated North American output during fiscal 2012.

Our phosphate crop nutrient products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors and retailers. Our principal
phosphate crop nutrient products are:



•Diammonium Phosphate (“DAP”). DAP is the most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient worldwide. DAP is produced by
combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. This initial reaction creates a slurry that is then pumped into a granulation plant where it is reacted with additional ammonia to produce DAP. DAP is a solid granular product.



•Monoammonium Phosphate (“MAP”). MAP is the second most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient and the fastest
growing phosphate product worldwide. MAP is also produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. The resulting slurry is then pumped into the granulation plant where it is reacted with additional phosphoric acid to produce MAP.
MAP is a solid granular product, but requires less ammonia and more sulfur than DAP.



•MicroEssentials®is a value-added ammoniated
phosphate product that is enhanced through a patented process that creates very thin platelets of sulfur and other micronutrients, such as zinc, on the granulated product. The patented process incorporates both the sulfate and elemental forms of
sulfur, providing season long availability to crops.

In addition, our Phosphates segment is one of the
largest producers and marketers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in the United States. Production of our animal feed ingredients products is located at our New Wales, Florida facility. We market our feed phosphate primarily under the
leading brand names of Biofos®and NexfosTM.







Our primary phosphate crop nutrient production facilities are located in central Florida and Louisiana. The
following map shows the locations of each of our phosphate concentrates plants in the United States and the locations of each of our active and planned phosphate mines in Florida:





Annual capacity by plant as of May 31, 2012 and production volumes by plant for fiscal 2012 are listed below:



(tonnes in millions)Phosphoric AcidProcessedPhosphate(a)/DAP/MAP/MicroEssentials®/FeedPhosphateFacilityOperationalCapacity(b)ProductionOperationalCapacity(b)ProductionFlorida:Bartow0.90.92.22.1New Wales1.71.64.13.3Riverview0.90.81.81.73.53.38.17.1Louisiana:Faustina--1.61.2Uncle Sam0.80.6--0.80.61.61.2Total4.33.99.78.3









(a)Our ability to produce processed phosphates has been less than our operational capacity stated in the table above, except to the extent we purchase
phosphoric acid.

(b)Actual production varies from that shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products, maintenance
and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

The phosphoric acid
produced at Uncle Sam is shipped to Faustina, where it is used to produce DAP and MAP. Our Faustina plant also manufactures ammonia that is mostly consumed in our concentrate plants.

We produced approximately 7.7 million tonnes of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients for fiscal 2012 and accounted for roughly 13% of estimated world output and 58% of estimated North American
production.

Phosphate Rock

Phosphate rock is the key mineral used to produce phosphate crop nutrients and feed phosphate. Our phosphate rock production totaled approximately 12.1 million tonnes in fiscal 2012 and accounted for
approximately 6% of estimated world production and 43% of estimated North American production. We are the world’s second largest miner of phosphate rock and currently operate four mines with a combined annual capacity of approximately
16.0 million tonnes. Production of one tonne of DAP requires between 1.6 and 1.7 tonnes of phosphate rock.

All of our wholly owned
phosphate mines and related mining operations are located in central Florida. During fiscal 2012, we operated four active mines: Four Corners, South Fort Meade, Hookers Prairie and Wingate. We plan to develop two large mines at Ona and at DeSoto to
replace mines that will be depleted at various times during the next decade.

The phosphate deposits of Florida are of sedimentary origin and
are part of a phosphate-bearing province that extends from southern Florida north along the Atlantic coast into southern Virginia. Our active phosphate mines are primarily located in what is known as the Bone Valley Member of the Peace River
Formation in the Central Florida Phosphate District. The southern portions of the Four Corners and Wingate mines are in what is referred to as the Undifferentiated Peace River Formation, in which our future Ona and DeSoto mines would also be
located. Phosphate mining has been conducted in the Central Florida Phosphate District since the late 1800’s. The potentially mineable portion of the district encompasses an area approximately 80 miles in length in a north-south direction and
approximately 40 miles in width.

We extract phosphate ore using large surface mining machines that we own called “draglines.” Prior
to extracting the ore, the draglines must first remove a 10 to 50 foot layer of sandy overburden. At our Wingate mine, we also utilize dredges to remove the overburden and mine the ore. We then process the ore at beneficiation plants that we own at
each active mine where the ore goes through washing, screening, sizing and flotation processes designed to separate the phosphate rock from sands, clays and other foreign materials.Prior to commencing operations at any of our planned future
mines, we would need to acquire new draglines or move existing draglines to the mines and, unless the beneficiation plant at an existing mine were used, construct a beneficiation plant.







The following table shows, for each of our phosphate mines, annual capacity as of May 31, 2012 and
rock production volume and grade for the past three fiscal years:



(tonnes in millions)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)201220112010FacilityProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)ProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)ProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)Four Corners7.07.464.129.36.765.530.05.666.430.4South Fort Meade(d)5.51.265.630.01.863.729.24.363.028.8Hookers Prairie2.02.165.930.21.865.830.11.864.829.7Wingate1.51.462.828.71.064.629.61.165.029.7Hopewell(e)----0.266.530.40.568.731.4Total16.012.164.429.511.565.229.813.365.029.8



(a)Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our
products, the quality of the reserves, the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, weather conditions, and other operating conditions, as well as the
effect of recent initiatives intended to improve operational excellence.

(b)Bone Phosphate of Lime (“BPL”) is a traditional reference to the amount (by weight percentage) of calcium phosphate contained
in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher BPL corresponds to a higher percentage of calcium phosphate.

(c)The percent of
P2O5in the above table represents a measure of the phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher
percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body.

(d)Production at the South Fort Meade mine reflects the temporary shutdown during most of the first six months of fiscal 2011 and subsequently reduced
production level for the remainder of that fiscal year and all of fiscal 2012 as a result of the preliminary injunctions entered in the Hardee County Extension Permit Litigation.

(e)The Hopewell mine’s reserves were exhausted in January 2011.

We also purchase phosphate rock. The level of our purchases of phosphate rock in the future will depend upon, among other factors, our phosphate rock mining plans, the status of our permits, our need for
additional phosphate rock to allow us to operate our concentrates plants at or near full capacity, the quality and level of impurities in the phosphate rock that we mine, and our development or acquisition of additional phosphate rock deposits and
mines. Depending on product mix and tonnage requirements, our need for purchased phosphate rock could increase in the future in order to meet product specifications, particularly as we develop our proposed Ona and DeSoto mines.

We have a 35% economic interest in a joint venture, which owns a phosphate rock mine (the “Miski Mayo Mine”) in the Bayovar
region of Peru. Our investment in the Miski Mayo Mine and related commercial offtake supply agreement to purchase a share of the phosphate rock from the Miski Mayo Mine reduces our purchases of phosphate rock from other suppliers. The Miski Mayo
Mine’s annual production capacity is expected to be 3.9 million tonnes when fully operational.

Reserves

We estimate our phosphate rock reserves based upon exploration core drilling as well as technical and economic analyses to determine that reserves can be
economically mined. Proven (measured) reserves are those resources







of sufficient concentration to meet minimum physical, chemical and economic criteria related to our current product standards and mining and production practices. Our estimates of probable
(indicated) reserves are based on information similar to that used for proven reserves, but sites for drilling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced than for proven reserves, although the degree of assurance is high enough to
assume continuity between such sites. Proven reserves are determined using a minimum drill hole spacing of two sites per 40 acre block. Probable reserves have less than two drill holes per 40 acre block, but geological data provides a high degree of
assurance that continuity exists between sites.

The following table sets forth our proven and probable phosphate reserves as of May 31,
2012:



(tonnes in millions)Reserve Tonnes(a) 
(b) (c)Average 
BPL(d)% P2O5Active MinesFour Corners60.364.629.6South Fort Meade52.364.229.4Hookers Prairie3.8(e)66.430.4Wingate37.963.429.0Total Active Mines154.364.229.4Planned MiningOna245.563.529.0DeSoto148.0(f)64.829.7Total Planned Mining393.564.029.3Total Mining547.864.029.3



(a)Reserves are in areas that are fully accessible for mining; free of surface or subsurface encumbrance, legal setbacks, wetland preserves and other
legal restrictions that preclude permittable access for mining; believed by us to be permittable; and meet specified minimum physical, economic and chemical criteria related to current mining and production practices.

(b)Reserve estimates are generally established by our personnel without a third party review. There has been no third party review of reserve estimates
within the last five years, except that in fiscal 2008, we engaged a third party to review the recoverable reserves at our Wingate mine’s Tract 2 pursuant to contractual requirements related to our acquisition of these reserves. The reserve
estimates have been prepared in accordance with the standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

(c)Of the reserves shown, 510.4 million tonnes are proven reserves, while probable reserves totaled 37.4 million tonnes.

(d)Average product BPL ranges from approximately 63% to 66%.

(e)Of the tonnes shown at Hookers Prairie, our lease of 0.8 million tonnes requires us to pay royalties of $2.00 per short ton of the reserves that
we mine. In addition, our lease of 0.6 million tonnes requires us to pay royalties between $1.25 to $1.35 per short ton. We estimate that Hookers Prairie mine’s reserves will be exhausted by the end of fiscal 2014.

(f)In connection with the sale in 1994 of certain of the surface rights related to approximately 48.9 million tonnes of the reported DeSoto reserves,
we agreed not to mine such reserves until at least 2014. Our current mining plans do not contemplate mining these reserves until at least that time. In addition, in connection with the purchase in 1996 of approximately 99.1 million tonnes of
the reported Desoto reserves, we agreed to (i) pay royalties of between $0.50 and $0.90 per ton of rock mined based on future levels of DAP margins, (ii) pay to the seller lost income from the loss of surface use to the extent we use the
property for mining related purposes before January 1, 2015 and (iii) re-convey to the seller the lands which are not scheduled to be mined upon completion of the permitting process and the approval of the Development Order for the mine.







We generally own the reserves shown for active mines in the table above, with the only significant
exceptions being further described below:



•Of the tonnes shown for the Wingate mine, 0.5 million tonnes are under a lease that we have the right to extend through 2014 and for which we have
prepaid substantially all royalties.



•We hold the reserves referred to in Note (e) to the above table under leases that we have rights to extend to 2015 and 2022, respectively.



•We own the above-ground assets of the South Fort Meade mine, including the beneficiation plant, rail track and the initial clay settling areas. A
limited partnership, South Ft. Meade Partnership, L.P. (“SFMP”), owns the majority of the mineable acres shown in the table for the South Fort Meade mine.



•We currently have a 94% economic interest in the profits and losses of SFMP. SFMP is included as a consolidated subsidiary in our financial statements.



•We have a long-term mineral lease with SFMP. This lease expires on December 31, 2025 or on the date that we have completed mining and reclamation
obligations associated with the leased property. Lease provisions include royalty payments and a commitment to give mining priority to the South Fort Meade phosphate reserves. We pay the partnership a royalty on each tonne mined and shipped from the
areas that we lease from it. Royalty payments to SFMP averaged approximately $8 million annually over the last three fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.



•Through its arrangements with us, SFMP also earns income from mineral lease payments, agricultural lease payments and interest income, and uses those
proceeds primarily to pay dividends to its equity owners.



•The surface rights to approximately 882 acres shown in the table above for the South Fort Meade Mine are owned by SFMP, while the U.S. government owns
the mineral rights beneath. We control the rights to mine these reserves under a mining lease agreement and pay royalties on the tonnage extracted. Royalties on the approved leases equal approximately 5% of the six-month rolling average mining cost
of production when mining these reserves. Under the lease, we paid $1.2 million in royalties to the U.S. government in fiscal 2012.

In light of the long-term nature of our rights to our reserves, we expect to be able to mine all reported reserves that are not currently owned prior to termination or expiration of our rights. Additional
information regarding permitting is included in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, under “Environmental, Health and Safety Matters—Operating Requirements and Permitting” in our Management’s Analysis, and under
“Phosphate Mine Permitting in Florida” in Note 22 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sulfur

We use molten sulfur at our phosphates concentrates plants to produce sulfuric acid primarily for use in our production of phosphoric acid. We purchased
approximately 3.6 million long tons of sulfur during fiscal 2012. We purchase most of this sulfur from North American oil and natural gas refiners who are required to remove or recover sulfur during the refining process. Production of one tonne
of DAP requires approximately 0.40 long tons of sulfur. We procure our sulfur from multiple sources and receive it by truck, rail, barge and vessel, either direct to our phosphate plants or have it sent for gathering to terminals that are located on
the US gulf coast.

We own and operate sulfur terminals in Houston, Texas and Riverview, Florida. We also lease terminal space in Tampa,
Florida; Houston and Beaumont, Texas. We own two ocean-going barges and contract for operation of another ocean-going vessel that transport molten sulfur from the Texas terminals to Tampa and then onward by







truck to our Florida phosphate plants. In addition, we own a 50% equity interest in Gulf Sulphur Services Ltd., LLLP (“Gulf Sulphur Services”), which is operated by our
joint venture partner. Gulf Sulphur Services has a large sulfur transportation and terminaling business in the Gulf of Mexico, and handles these functions for a substantial portion of our Florida sulfur volume. Gulf Sulphur Services’
capabilities include melting solid sulfur into the molten form that we use, which permits us to access sources of solid as well as molten sulfur. We further round out our sulfur logistic assets with a large fleet of leased railcars that supplement
our marine sulfur logistic system. Our Louisiana operations are served by truck, rail and barge from nearby refineries.

Although sulfur is
readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphate facilities by a variety of means, sulfur is an important raw material used in our business that has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of
volatile pricing and availability. Alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to current transportation or terminaling facilities.
Changes in the price of sulfur or disruptions to sulfur transportation or terminaling facilities could have a material impact on our business. We have included a discussion of sulfur prices in our Management’s Analysis.

Ammonia

We use ammonia together
with phosphoric acid to produce both DAP, MAP and MES. We used approximately 1.4 million tonnes of ammonia during fiscal 2012. Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately 0.23 tonnes of ammonia.

Our Florida ammonia needs are supplied by offshore producers, under multi-year and annual contracts. Ammonia for our New Wales and Riverview plants is
terminaled through an ammonia facility at Port Sutton, Florida that we lease for a term expiring in 2013, which we may extend for up to five additional years. A third party operates the Port Sutton ammonia facility pursuant to an agreement that
expires in 2013, which we may extend for an unlimited number of additional five year terms, as long as we or the other party is entitled to operate the ammonia facility. Ammonia for our Bartow plant is terminaled through another ammonia facility
owned and operated by a third party at Port Sutton, Florida pursuant to an agreement that expires in calendar 2012. Ammonia is transported by pipeline from the terminals to our production facilities. The service agreement with the pipeline providers
for Bartow will expire at the end of calendar year 2012. The service agreements with the pipeline provider for New Wales and Riverview were due for renewal on June 30, 2012. We plan to execute an interim agreement to ensure continuity of
service until the final terms can be agreed upon and accepted by both parties.

We produce ammonia at Faustina, Louisiana primarily for our
own consumption. Our annual capacity is approximately 500,000 tonnes. From time to time we may sell surplus ammonia to unrelated parties.

Although ammonia is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphates facilities by a variety of means, ammonia is
an important raw material used in our business that has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing, and alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our
facilities in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of ammonia or disruptions to ammonia transportation or terminaling could have a material impact on our business. We have included a
discussion of ammonia prices in our Management’s Analysis.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is the primary raw material used to manufacture ammonia. At our Faustina facility, ammonia is manufactured on site. The majority of natural
gas is purchased through firm delivery contracts based on published index-based prices and is sourced from Texas and Louisiana via pipelines interconnected to the Henry Hub. We use over-the-counter swap and/or option contracts to forward price
portions of future gas purchases.







The portions of gas purchases not forward priced are purchased at the index based prices or at domestic spot market prices under short-term contracts. On average, we purchase approximately
14 million MMbtu of natural gas per year for use in ammonia production at Faustina.

Because our ammonia requirements for our Florida
operations are purchased rather than manufactured on site, we purchase on average approximately two million MMbtu of natural gas per year in Florida only as a thermal fuel for various production processes.

Florida Land Holdings

We are a
significant landowner in the State of Florida, which in the future is expected to return to its historical status as one of the fastest areas of population growth in the United States. We own land comprising approximately 255,000 acres held in
fee simple title in central Florida, and have the right to mine additional properties which contain phosphate rock reserves. Some of our land holdings are needed to operate our Phosphates business, while a portion of our land assets, such as
reclaimed properties, are not related to our operations. As a general matter, more of our reclaimed property becomes available for uses other than for phosphate operations each year. Our land assets are generally comprised of concentrates plants,
port facilities, phosphate mines and other property which we have acquired through our presence in Florida. We are currently taking initial steps as part of a long-term future land use strategy to optimize the value of our land assets. For
example, during fiscal 2011 we began development of Streamsong, a destination resort and conference center, in certain areas of previously mined land as part of our long-term business strategy to maximize the value and utility of our extensive land
holdings in Florida. The resort and conference center are expected to be completed in calendar 2013.

International Production

Our international operations include production in Brazil and Argentina. Our production facilities include plants that produce up to
800,000 tonnes per year of single superphosphate (“SSP”) and granulated SSP crop nutrients by mixing sulfuric acid with phosphate rock purchased from unrelated third party and the Miski Mayo Mine.

Potash Segment

We
are one of the leading potash producers in the world. We mine and process potash in Canada and the United States and sell potash in North America and internationally. The term “potash” applies generally to the common salts of potassium.
Muriate of potash (“MOP”) is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry. Red MOP has traces of iron oxide. The granular and standard grade Red MOP products are well suited for direct fertilizer application
and bulk blending. White MOP has a higher percent K2O. White
MOP, besides being well suited for the agricultural market, is used in many industrial applications.

Our potash products are marketed
worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors and retailers and are also used in the manufacture of mixed crop nutrients and, to a lesser extent, in animal feed ingredients. We also sell potash to customers for industrial use. In addition,
our potash products are used for de-icing and as a water softener regenerant.

We operate three potash mines in Canada, including two shaft
mines with a total of three production shafts and one solution mine, as well as two potash mines in the United States, including one shaft mine and one solution mine. We also own related refineries at each of the mines.

We have a long term potash capacity expansion plan in Saskatchewan, Canada in response to expected growth in global potash demand. From the inception of
our planned brownfield expansions, we expect to increase our annual proven peaking capacity for finished product by approximately five million tonnes by the end of the decade. At our Esterhazy mine K2 shaft and mill, we have substantially completed
our expansion and anticipate







the full capacity of an estimated incremental 0.7 million tonnes to be available in fiscal 2013. We are positioning our expansion projects with flexibility in timing so we are able to bring
the additional capacity on line when market demand warrants.

POTASH EXPANSION PROJECTS



(tonnes in millions)EstimatedCompletion(Fiscal Year)(b)EstimatedIn-service(FiscalYear)(c)EstimatedAdditionalAnnualOperationalCapacity(d)CompleteColonsay(a)2011-20120.2EsterhazyK1(a)20120.1K220130.7In progressBelle Plaine20132015-20160.6Colonsay20132014-20150.5EsterhazyK320172017-20180.9Future(e)Belle Plaine1.5Colonsay0.55.0



(a)During fiscal year 2012, 0.2 million tonnes were placed in service and included in operational capacity.

(b)Estimated completion years indicate when capital will be substantially invested.

(c)Estimated in-service years indicate when capacity is expected to begin to be added; does not necessarily reflect full operating capacity.

(d)Estimates based on project engineers but will be impacted by factors which include quality of reserves and nature of geological formations we are
mining at a particular time. Ore grade assumptions are based on historical studies, modified for most recent historical grades.

(e)Not yet approved by our Board of Directors.











As shown in the table above, we have realized the first capacity increases from the expansions at our Esterhazy and
Colonsay, Saskatchewan potash mines. In addition, we anticipate that significant capacity increases will begin to be realized from expansion projects at our Belle Plaine, Colonsay and Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mines beginning in fiscal 2013.
All other expansion projects are progressing as planned. We estimate that our total operational capacity including the planned expansions and the Tolling Agreement operational capacity will approximate 15.0 million tonnes. We estimate that our
proven peaking capacity including the planned expansions and the Tolling Agreement peaking capacity will approximate 16.1 million tonnes.







The map below shows the location of each of our potash mines.





Our current potash annualized proven peaking capacity, excluding tonnage produced at Esterhazy under the Tolling
Agreement, totals 10.3 million tonnes of product per year and accounted for approximately 13% of world capacity and 37% of North American capacity. Production during fiscal 2012, excluding tonnage produced for PCS under the Tolling Agreement,
totaled 7.4 million tonnes and accounted for approximately 12% of estimated world production and 39% of estimated North American production.







The following table shows, for each of our potash mines, annual capacity as of May 31, 2012 and volume
of mined ore, average grade and finished product output for the past three fiscal years:



(tonnes in millions)201220112010FacilityAnnualizedProvenPeakingCapacity(a)(b)(c)(i)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)(b)(d)(i)(j)OreMinedGrade% K2O(e)FinishedProductOreMinedGrade% K2O(e)FinishedProductOreMinedGrade% K2O(e)FinishedProductCanadaBelle Plaine—MOP2.82.48.818.02.38.418.02.25.718.01.5Colonsay—MOP1.81.53.125.41.13.225.01.12.224.90.8Esterhazy—MOP5.34.912.423.24.011.823.93.96.724.12.3Canadian Total9.98.824.321.67.423.421.97.214.621.84.6United StatesCarlsbad—MOP0.50.52.510.60.23.010.20.33.011.20.4Carlsbad—K-Mag®(f)1.11.03.85.10.83.55.10.72.76.70.6Carlsbad Total1.61.56.37.21.06.57.41.05.79.11.0Hersey—MOP(g)0.10.10.226.70.10.126.70.10.126.7-United States Total1.71.66.51.16.61.15.81.0Totals11.610.430.818.78.530.018.88.320.418.35.6Total excluding toll
production(h)10.39.327.57.427.27.419.35.2



(a)Finished product.

(b)Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our
products, maintenance and turnaround time, the quality of the reserves and the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

(c)Represents full capacity assuming no turnaround or maintenance time.

(d)Annual operational capacity is our estimated annual achievable production level, including completed expansions.

(e)Grade % K2O is a traditional reference to the percentage (by weight) of potassium oxide contained in the ore. A higher percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of potassium oxide in the ore.

(f)K-Mag is a specialty product that we produce at our Carlsbad facility.

(g)The Hersey facility also mines, processes and sells salt.

(h)We toll produce MOP at our Esterhazy mine under the Tolling Agreement.

(i)The annualized proven peaking capacity shown above is the capacity currently used to determine our share of Canpotex sales. Canpotex members’
respective shares of Canpotex sales are based upon the members’ respective proven peaking capacities for producing potash. When a Canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member’s proven peaking
capacity based on a test run at the maximum production level. The annual operational capacity reported in the table above can exceed the annualized proven peaking capacity until the test run has been completed.

(j)In fiscal 2012, annual operating capacities reflected a change in procedures used to establish ore grade assumptions. For prior periods, we used a
third party report from 2009. Current assumptions rely more heavily on recently mined ore grades. Operational capacities will continue to be updated to the extent new production results impact ore grades assumptions.

Canadian Mines

We operate three
Canadian potash facilities all located in the southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan, including our solution mine at Belle Plaine, two interconnected mine shafts at our Esterhazy shaft mine and our shaft mine at Colonsay.







Extensive potash deposits are found in the southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan. The potash ore is
contained in a predominantly rock salt formation known as the Prairie Evaporites. The Prairie Evaporites deposits are bounded by limestone formations and contain the potash beds. Three potash deposits of economic importance occur in Saskatchewan:
the Esterhazy, Belle Plaine and Patience Lake members. The Patience Lake member is mined at Colonsay, and the Esterhazy member at Esterhazy. At Belle Plaine all three members are mined. Each of the major potash members contains several potash beds
of different thicknesses and grades. The particular beds mined at Colonsay and Esterhazy have a mining height of 11 and 8 feet, respectively. At Belle Plaine several beds of different thicknesses are mined.

Our potash mines in Canada produce MOP exclusively. Esterhazy and Colonsay utilize shaft mining while Belle Plaine utilizes solution mining technology.
Traditional potash shaft mining takes place underground at depths of over 1,000 meters where continuous mining machines cut out the ore face and load it onto conveyor belts. The ore is then crushed, moved to storage bins and hoisted to refineries
above ground. In contrast, our solution mining process involves heated brine, which is pumped through a “cluster” to dissolve the potash in the ore beds at a depth of approximately 1,500 meters. A cluster consists of a series of boreholes
drilled into the potash ore. A separate distribution center at each cluster controls the brine flow. The solution containing dissolved potash and salt is pumped to a refinery where sodium chloride, a co-product of this process, is separated from the
potash through the use of evaporation and crystallization techniques. Concurrently, the solution is pumped into a cooling pond where additional crystallization occurs and the resulting product is recovered via a floating dredge. Refined potash is
dewatered, dried and sized. Our Canadian operations produce 15 different MOP products, including industrial grades, many through proprietary processes.

Under the Tolling Agreement, we have mined and refined PCS’ potash reserves at our Esterhazy mine for a nominal fee plus a pro rata share of operating and capital costs for approximately forty years.
Under the agreement, we have delivered to PCS up to approximately 1.1 million tonnes of potash per year. The Tolling Agreement provided for a term through December 31, 2011 as well as certain renewal terms at the option of PCS, but only to
the extent PCS had not received all of its available reserves under the contract. To the extent we have not fully utilized the capacity to satisfy our obligations under the contract, the productive capacity at our Esterhazy mine otherwise used to
satisfy our obligations under the Tolling Agreement has been and continues to be available to us for sales to any of our customers at then-current market prices.

As previously reported, on December 7, 2011, we and PCS settled, among other matters, a dispute regarding the expiration of the Tolling Agreement. Under the settlement, the Tolling Agreement expires
at December 31, 2012. We agreed to supply approximately 1.1 million tonnes of potash to PCS on existing terms for calendar 2012. We also granted PCS the right, which it has exercised, to take delivery of approximately 0.1 million of
the 1.1 million tonnes through the first quarter of calendar 2013. In addition, effective December 31, 2012, we will receive credit for 1.3 million tonnes of capacity at our Esterhazy mine for purposes of calculating our relative
share of annual sales of potash to international customers by Canpotex, capacity which is currently allocated to PCS. Canpotex is an export association of certain Canadian potash producers. Canpotex sales are generally allocated among the producer
members based on production capacity.

Our potash mineral rights in the Province of Saskatchewan consist of the following:



Belle PlaineColonsayEsterhazyTotalAcres under controlOwned in fee14,4899,718106,862131,069Leased from Province51,56867,006191,116309,690Leased from others-2,72670,20072,926Total under control66,05779,450368,178513,685







We believe that our mineral rights in Saskatchewan are sufficient to support current operations for more
than a century. Leases are generally renewable at our option for successive terms, generally 21 years each, except that certain of the acres shown above as “Leased from others” are leased under long-term leases with terms (including
renewals at our option) that expire from 2023 to 2142.

We pay Canadian resource taxes consisting of the Potash Production Tax and resource
surcharge. The Potash Production Tax is a Saskatchewan provincial tax on potash production and consists of a base payment and a profits tax. We also pay a percentage of the value of resource sales from our Saskatchewan mines. In addition to the
Canadian resource taxes, royalties are payable to the mineral owners in respect of potash reserves or production of potash. We have included a further discussion of the Canadian resource taxes and royalties in our Management’s Analysis.

Since December 1985, we have effectively managed an inflow of salt saturated brine into our Esterhazy mine. At various times since then, we
have experienced changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at Esterhazy. To date, the brine inflow, including our remediation efforts to control it, have not had a material impact on our production processes or volumes. The volume of the net
brine inflow (the rate of inflow less the amount we are pumping out of the mine) or net outflow (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow) fluctuates and is dependent on a number of variables, such as the location of
the source of the inflow; the magnitude of the inflow; available pumping, surface and underground brine storage capacities; underground injection well capacities; and the effectiveness of calcium chloride and cementatious grout used to reduce or
prevent the inflows, among other factors. As a result of these brine inflows, we incur expenditures, certain of which have been capitalized and others that have been charged to expense, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”).

It is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at Esterhazy may
further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or
abandon the mine. See “Key Factors that can Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and “Potash Net Sales and Gross Margin” in our Management’s Analysis and “Accidents occurring in the course of our
operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures” in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this report, which are
incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. We have begun construction of a new third shaft at the Esterhazy mine as part of our potash expansion plan which is also designed
to mitigate risk from current and future inflows.

Due to the ongoing brine inflow at Esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are
currently not insurable for water incursion problems. Like other potash producers’ shaft mines, our Colonsay, Saskatchewan, and Carlsbad, New Mexico, mines are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of their shaft mining
operations, but water inflow risks at these mines are included in our insurance coverage subject to deductibles, retentions and limits negotiated with our insurers.

United States Mines

In the United States, we have two potash facilities, including
a shaft mine located in Carlsbad, New Mexico and a solution mine located in Hersey, Michigan.

Our potash mineral rights in the United States
consist of the following:



CarlsbadHerseyTotalAcres under controlOwned in fee-581581Long-term leases73,7811,79975,580Total under control73,7812,38076,161







The Carlsbad ore reserves are of two types: (1) sylvinite, a mixture of potassium chloride and sodium
chloride that is the same as the ore mined in Saskatchewan, and (2) langbeinite, a double sulfate of potassium and magnesium. These two types of potash reserves occur in a predominantly rock salt formation known as the Salado Formation. The
McNutt Member of this formation consists of eleven units of economic importance, of which we currently mine two. The McNutt Member’s evaporite deposits are interlayered with anhydrite, polyhalite, potassium salts, clay, and minor amounts of
sandstone and siltstone.

Continuous underground mining methods are utilized to extract the ore. Drum type mining machines are used to cut the
sylvinite and langbeinite ores from the face. Mined ore is then loaded onto conveyors, transported to storage areas, and then hoisted to the surface for further processing at our refinery.

Two types of potash are produced at the Carlsbad refinery. MOP is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry.
Double sulfate of potash magnesia is the second type of potash, which we market under our brand name K-Mag®, and
contains sulfur, potassium and magnesium, with low levels of chloride.

At the Carlsbad facility, we mine and refine
potash from 73,781 acres of mineral rights. We control these reserves pursuant to either (i) leases from the U.S. government that, in general, continue in effect at our option (subject to readjustment by the U.S. government every 20 years) or
(ii) leases from the State of New Mexico that continue as long as we continue to produce from them. These reserves contain an estimated total of 249 million tonnes of potash mineralization (calculated after estimated extraction losses) in
two mining beds evaluated at thicknesses ranging from 4.5 feet to in excess of 11 feet. At average refinery rates, these ore reserves are estimated to be sufficient to yield 16 million tonnes of concentrates from sylvinite with an average grade
of approximately 60% K2O and 22 million tonnes of
langbeinite concentrates with an average grade of approximately 22% K2O. At projected rates of production, we estimate that Carlsbad’s reserves of sylvinite and langbeinite are sufficient to support operations for approximately 31 years and 22 years, respectively.

At Hersey, Michigan, we operate a solution mining facility which produces salt and potash. Mining occurs in the Michigan Basin in a
predominantly rock salt formation called the Salina Group Evaporite. This formation is a clean salt deposit with interlayered beds of sylvinite and carbonate. At the Hersey facility, our mineral rights consist of 581 acres owned in fee and 1,799
acres controlled under leases that, in general, continue in effect at our option as long as we continue our operations at Hersey. These lands contain an estimated 41 million tonnes of potash mineralization contained in two beds ranging in
thickness from 14 to 30 feet.

Royalties for the U.S. operations amounted to approximately $18.8 million for fiscal 2012. These royalties are
established by the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, in the case of the Carlsbad leases from the U.S. government, and pursuant to provisions set forth in the leases, in the case of the Carlsbad state leases and the Hersey
leases.

Reserves

Our estimates below of our potash reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization are based on exploration drill hole data, seismic data and actual mining
results over more than 35 years. Proven reserves are estimated by identifying material in place that is delineated on at least two sides and material in place within a half-mile radius or distance from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration
core hole. Probable reserves are estimated by identifying material in place within a one mile radius from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Historical extraction ratios from the many years of mining results are then applied to
both types of material to estimate the proven and probable reserves. We believe that all reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization reported below are potentially recoverable using existing production shaft and refinery locations.







Our estimated recoverable potash reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization as of May 31, 2012 for
each of our mines is as follows:



(tonnes in millions)Reserves(a)(b)PotashMineralization(a)(c)FacilityRecoverableTonnesAverageGrade(% 
K2O)PotentiallyRecoverableTonnesCanadaBelle Plaine79718.02,338Colonsay24126.4297Esterhazy75124.5811sub-totals1,78921.93,446United StatesCarlsbad2497.5-Hersey4126.7-sub-totals29010.2-Totals2,07920.23,446



(a)There has been no third party review of reserve estimates within the last five years. The reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the
standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the SEC.

(b)Includes 1.3 billion tonnes of proven reserves and 0.8 billion tonnes of probable reserves.

(c)The non-reserve potash mineralization reported in the table in some cases extends to the boundaries of the mineral rights we own or lease. Such
boundaries are up to 16 miles from the closest existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Based on available geologic data, the non-reserve potash mineralization represents potash that we expect to mine in the future, but it may not meet
all of the technical requirements for categorization as proven or probable reserves under Industry Guide 7.

As discussed
more fully above, we either own the reserves and mineralization shown above or lease them pursuant to mineral leases that generally remain in effect or are renewable at our option, or are long-term leases. Accordingly, we expect to be able to mine
all reported reserves that are leased prior to termination or expiration of the existing leases.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is used at our potash solution mines as a fuel to produce steam and to dry potash products. The steam is used to generate electricity, in
evaporation and crystallization processes and to provide thermal heat to the solution mining process. Our two solution mines accounted for approximately 81% of our Potash segment’s total natural gas requirements for potash production in fiscal
2012. At our shaft mines, natural gas is used as a fuel to heat fresh air supplied to the shaft mines and for drying potash products. Combined natural gas usage for both the solution and shaft mines approximated 17 million MMbtu for fiscal
2012. We purchase our natural gas requirements on firm delivery index price-based physical contracts and on short term spot-priced physical contracts. Our Canadian operations purchase all of their physical gas in Saskatchewan via the TransGas
pipeline system using AECO price indices as pricing references. The U.S. potash operations in Michigan and New Mexico purchase physical gas in their respective regional markets via the MichCon and El Paso Permian Basin market hubs as pricing
references, respectively. We use financial derivative contracts to manage the price of portions of our future purchases.







SALES AND DISTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES

United States and Canada

We
have a United States and Canada sales and marketing team that serves our business segments. We sell to wholesale distributors, retail chains, cooperatives, independent retailers and national accounts.

Customer service and the ability to effectively minimize the overall supply chain costs are key competitive factors in the crop nutrient and animal feed
ingredients businesses. In addition to our production facilities, to service the needs of our customers, we own, lease or have contractual throughput or other arrangements at strategically located distribution warehouses along or near the
Mississippi and Ohio Rivers as well as in other key agricultural regions of the United States and Canada. From these facilities, we market Mosaic produced phosphate and potash products for customers who in turn resell the product into the
distribution channel or directly to farmers in the United States and Canada.

We own port facilities in Savage, Minnesota as well as warehouse
distribution facilities in Pekin, Illinois; Henderson, Kentucky; Melbourne, Kentucky; and Houston, Texas, which has a deep water berth providing access to the Gulf of Mexico.

In addition to the geographically situated facilities that we own, our U.S. distribution operations also include leased distribution space or contractual throughput agreements in other key geographical
areas such as California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania and Texas.

Our Canadian customers include independent dealers and national accounts. We also lease and own warehouse facilities in Saskatchewan, Ontario, Quebec and Manitoba in Canada.

International

Outside of the
United States and Canada, we market our Phosphates segment’s products through PhosChem, as well as our Phosphates segment’s own international distribution activities. During fiscal 2012, PhosChem marketed approximately 70% of our phosphate
export sales volume. We administer PhosChem on behalf of PhosChem’s member companies. We estimate that PhosChem’s sales represent approximately 59% of total U.S. export volume of concentrated phosphates and 13% of global trade volume. The
countries that account for the largest amount of PhosChem’s sales of concentrated phosphates include India, Australia, Brazil, Japan and Colombia. During fiscal 2012, PhosChem’s dry concentrated phosphates exports to Asia were 50% of total
dry shipments by volume, with India representing 40% of PhosChem’s total dry concentrated phosphates export shipments.

Our sales outside
of the United States and Canada of Saskatchewan potash products are made through Canpotex. Canpotex sales are generally allocated among its members based on production capacity. We currently supply approximately 37.1%, by volume, of Canpotex’s
requirements. Our potash exports from Carlsbad are sold through our own sales force. We also market our Potash segment’s products through our Phosphates segment, which acquires its potash primarily through Canpotex. The largest amount of
international potash sales are to Brazil, Indonesia, China, India, Malaysia, Korea, Japan, Thailand, Vietnam and Australia.

Our Phosphates
segment also purchases phosphates, potash and nitrogen products from unrelated third parties to produce blended crop nutrients (“Blends”).

To service the needs of our customers, our international distribution activities include a network of strategically located sales offices, crop nutrient blending and bagging facilities, port terminals and
warehouse distribution facilities that we own and operate in key geographic areas throughout several countries. The blending and







bagging facilities primarily produce Blends from phosphate, potash and nitrogen. The average product mix in our Blends (by volume) contains approximately 50% phosphate, 25% potash and 25%
nitrogen, although this mix differs based on seasonal and other factors. Our international operations serve primarily as a sales outlet for our North American Phosphates production, both for resale and as an input for Blends. Our Potash segment also
has historically furnished a portion of the raw materials needs for the production of Blends, primarily via Canpotex, and is expected to continue to do so in the future.

The following maps show the locations of our primary distribution operations in South America and Asia:





Other Products

With a strong brand position in a multi-billion dollar animal feed ingredients global market, our Phosphates segment supplies animal feed ingredients for poultry and livestock to customers in North
America, Latin America and Asia. Our potash sales to non-agricultural users are primarily to large industrial accounts and the animal feed industry. Additionally, we sell potash for de-icing and as a water softener regenerant, as well as
fluorosilicic acid for water fluoridation.

COMPETITION

Because crop nutrients are global commodities available from numerous sources, crop nutrition companies compete primarily on the basis of delivered
price. Other competitive factors include product quality, cost and availability of raw materials, customer service, plant efficiency and availability of product. As a result, markets for our products are highly competitive. We compete with a broad
range of domestic and international producers, including farmer cooperatives, subsidiaries of larger companies, and independent crop nutrient companies. Foreign competitors often have access to cheaper raw materials, are required to comply with less
stringent regulatory requirements or are owned or subsidized by governments and, as a result, may have cost advantages over North American companies. We believe that our extensive North American and international production and distribution system
provides us with a competitive advantage by allowing us to achieve economies of scale, transportation and storage efficiencies, and obtain market intelligence.







Unlike many of our competitors, we have our own distribution system to sell phosphate- and potash-based
crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients, whether produced by us or by other third parties, around the globe. In North America, we have one of the largest and most strategically located distribution systems for crop nutrients, including warehouse
facilities in key agricultural regions. We also have an extensive network of distribution facilities internationally, including in the key growth markets of Latin America and Asia, with port terminals, warehouses, and blending plants in the
following countries: Brazil, Argentina, Chile, China, and India. Our global presence allows us to efficiently serve customers in approximately 40 countries.

Phosphates Segment

Our Phosphates segment operates in a highly
competitive global market. Among the competitors in the global phosphate industry are domestic and foreign companies, as well as foreign government-supported producers in Asia and North Africa. Phosphate producers compete primarily based on price
and, to a lesser extent, product quality, service and innovation, such as our MicroEssentials®product. Major
integrated producers of feed phosphates are located in the United States, Europe and China. Many smaller producers are located in emerging markets around the world. Many of these smaller producers are not miners of phosphate rock or manufacturers of
phosphoric acid and are required to purchase this material on the open market.

We believe that we are a low cost integrated producer of
phosphate-based crop nutrients, due in part to our scale, vertical integration and strategic network of production and distribution facilities. As the world’s largest producer of concentrated phosphates, as well as the second largest miner of
phosphate rock in the world and the largest in the United States, we maintain an advantage over some competitors as the scale of operations effectively reduces production costs per unit. We are also vertically integrated to captively supply one of
our key inputs, phosphate rock, to our phosphate production facilities. We believe that our position as an integrated producer of phosphate rock provides us with a significant cost advantage over competitors that are non-integrated phosphate
producers. Our investment in the Miski Mayo Mine and related commercial offtake supply agreement to purchase a share of the phosphate rock also allows us to reduce our purchases of phosphate rock from other suppliers.

We produce ammonia at our Faustina concentrates plant in quantities sufficient to meet approximately one quarter of our total ammonia needs. With no
captive ammonia production in Florida, we are subject to significant volatility in our purchase price of ammonia from world markets. With our own sulfur transportation barges and our 50% ownership interest in Gulf Sulphur Services, we are also
well-positioned to source an adequate, flexible and cost-effective supply of sulfur, our third key input. We believe that our investments in sulfur transportation assets continue to afford us a competitive advantage compared to other North American
producers in cost and access to sulfur.

With facilities in both central Florida and Louisiana, in addition to dedicated marine and other
assets for the transportation and handing of sulfur, we are logistically well positioned to fulfill our needs at very competitive prices. Those multiple production points also afford us the flexibility to optimally balance supply and demand.

We have a strong brand in several of the countries in which we have international distribution activities. In addition to having access to
our own production, our international distribution activities have the capability to supply a wide variety of crop nutrients to our dealer/farmer customer base. Our presence in Latin America and Asia allows us to capitalize on the growth in nutrient
demand in these large and growing international regions.

We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations in Florida and Louisiana
that are often more stringent than those to which producers in other countries are subject.

Potash Segment

Potash is a commodity available from several geographical regions around the world and, consequently, the market is highly competitive. Through our
participation in Canpotex, we compete outside of North America with various independent potash producers and consortia as well as other export organizations, including state-owned







organizations. We also ship product from our Carlsbad, New Mexico, potash facility to our South American and Asian distribution centers. Our principal methods of competition with respect to the
sale of potash include product pricing, and offering consistent, high-quality products and superior service. We believe that our potash cost structure is competitive in the industry and should improve as we achieve the expected increases in
production from our planned expansions.

FACTORS AFFECTING DEMAND

We sell products throughout the world. Unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting
trade; unexpected changes in tax and trade treaties; strengthening or weakening of foreign economies as well as political relations with the United States may cause sales trends to customers in one or more foreign countries to differ from sales
trends in the United States.

Our international operations are subject to risks from changes in foreign currencies, or government policy,
which can affect local farmer economics.

OTHER MATTERS

Employees

We had approximately
8,000 employees as of May 31, 2012, consisting of approximately 2,900 salaried and 5,100 hourly employees.

Labor Relations

As of May 31, 2012:



•We had ten collective bargaining agreements with unions covering approximately 97% of our hourly employees in the U.S. and Canada. Of these employees,
approximately 46% are covered under collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire in fiscal 2013.



•Agreements with ten unions covered all employees in Brazil, representing 72% of our international employees. More than one agreement may govern our
relations with each of these unions. In general, the agreements are renewable on an annual basis.



•We also had collective bargaining agreements with unions covering employees in several other countries.







Failure to renew any of our union agreements could result in a strike or labor stoppage that could have a
material adverse effect on our operations. However, we have not experienced significant work stoppage in many years and historically have had good labor relations.

Financial Information about our Business Segments and Operations by Geographic Areas

We have included financial information about our business segments, our operations by geographic area and our revenues by class of similar products in
Note 24 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Information Available on our Website

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, filed with the SEC pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder are made available free of charge on our website, (www.mosaicco.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on our website is not being incorporated in this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding our executive officers as of July 17, 2012 is set forth below:



NameAgePositionAnthony T. Brausen53Senior Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting OfficerGary “Bo” N. Davis60Senior Vice President—Phosphates OperationsMark E. Kaplan44Vice President—Public AffairsRichard L. Mack44Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryRichard N. McLellan55Senior Vice President—CommercialJames “Joc” C. O’Rourke51Executive Vice President—OperationsJames T. Prokopanko59Chief Executive Officer, President and DirectorCorrine D. Ricard49Senior Vice President—Human ResourcesLawrence W. Stranghoener58Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Anthony T. Brausen. Mr. Brausen was promoted to Senior Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting
Officer of Mosaic in December 2011. His responsibilities include global Accounting, Financial Planning, Treasury, Tax, Risk Advisory & Assurance and Information Technology. Previously, Mr. Brausen served as Vice President—Finance and
Chief Accounting Officer since April 2006. Prior to joining Mosaic as an employee in February 2006, Mr. Brausen had been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Tennant Company, a designer, manufacturer and marketer of floor maintenance
and outdoor cleaning equipment, chemical-free cleaning technologies, specialty surface coatings and related products, since March 2000. From 1989-2000, Mr. Brausen held several financial management positions, including Vice President and
Treasurer, Assistant Controller and Director of Investor Relations, with International Multifoods Corporation, a diversified publicly-traded food processor and distributor. From 1981-1989, Mr. Brausen held various positions with KPMG LLP.

Gary “Bo” N. Davis.Mr. Davis was promoted to Senior Vice President—Phosphate Operations of Mosaic in July 2011.
Previously, Mr. Davis served as Vice President—Phosphate Operations of Mosaic since June 2010, as Vice-President—Phosphate Operations for all of Mosaic’s Florida and Louisiana operations since 2007 and Vice President of Mining
since Mosaic’s formation in 2004. Prior to the Combination, Mr. Davis held several positions at Cargill, including Vice President, Operations for the fertilizer division from 1999 to 2004. Mr. Davis has worked in the crop nutrient
industry for over 30 years.







Mark E. Kaplan.Mr. Kaplan was elected Vice President—Public Affairs in August 2011.
Mr. Kaplan joined Mosaic in January 2007 as Vice President – Planning and Government Affairs of our subsidiary Mosaic Fertilizer, LLC to lead its government affairs function in Florida. In May 2010, Mr. Kaplan became Vice
President—Public Affairs and Policy for Mosaic’s Phosphates business segment, leading its overall public affairs function. Prior to joining Mosaic, Mr. Kaplan served as chief of staff for former Florida Governor Jeb Bush. He also held
roles as president and general counsel of Carlisle Development Group LLC, executive director of the Florida Housing Finance Corporation and a shareholder in the law firm Katz, Kutter, Haigler, Alderman Bryant & Yon, P.A.

Richard L. Mack.Mr. Mack was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary effective January 1, 2009.
Mr. Mack served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Mosaic since its formation in 2004. Mr. Mack also provides executive oversight for Mosaic’s land development and permitting organizations. Prior to
the formation of Mosaic in 2004, Mr. Mack was a Senior Attorney in Cargill’s worldwide law department and a co-founder of Cargill’s venture capital business unit.

Richard N. McLellan.Mr. McLellan was elected as Senior Vice President—Commercial in April 2007. Previously, Mr. McLellan had served us as our Vice President—North American
Sales since December 2005 and as Country Manager for our (and, prior to the Combination, Cargill’s) Brazilian crop nutrient business since November, 2002. Mr. McLellan joined Cargill in 1989 and held various roles in its Canadian and U.S.
operations, including grain, retail and wholesale crop nutrient distribution.

James “Joc” C. O’Rourke.Mr. O’Rourke became Executive Vice President—Operations of Mosaic in January 2009. Prior to joining Mosaic, Mr. O’Rourke was President, Australia Pacific for Barrick Gold Corporation, the largest gold producer in Australia,
since May 2006, where he was responsible for the Australia Pacific Business Unit consisting of ten gold and copper mines in Australia and Papua New Guinea. Before that, Mr. O’Rourke was Executive General Manager Australia and Managing
Director of Placer Dome Asia Pacific Ltd., the second largest gold producer in Australia, from December 2004, where he was responsible for the Australia Business Unit consisting of five gold and copper mines; and General Manager Western Australia
Operations for Iluka Resources Ltd., the world’s largest zircon and second largest titanium producer, from September 2003, where he was responsible for six mining and concentrating operations and two mineral separation/synthetic rutile
refineries. Mr. O’Rourke had previously held various management, engineering and other roles in the mining industry in Canada and Australia since 1984.

James T. Prokopanko.Mr. Prokopanko became our President and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2007. Until joining us as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer on
July 31, 2006, Mr. Prokopanko was a Corporate Vice President of Cargill since 2004. He was Cargill’s Corporate Vice President with executive responsibility for procurement from 2002 to 2006 and a platform leader responsible for
Cargill’s Ag Producer Services Platform from 1999 to July 2006. After joining Cargill in 1978, Mr. Prokopanko served in a wide range of leadership positions, including being named Vice President of North American crop inputs business in
1995. During his Cargill career, Mr. Prokopanko was engaged in retail agriculture businesses in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Argentina and the United Kingdom. Mr. Prokopanko resigned from all of his current positions with Cargill and
its subsidiaries (other than Mosaic) in connection with his election as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Mosaic. Mr. Prokopanko has served as a director of Mosaic since October 2004 and served as a member of the Corporate
Governance and Nominating Committee and the Environmental, Health and Safety Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors since his election to the Board through July 31, 2006.

Corrine D. Ricard.Ms. Ricard was named Senior Vice President—Human Resources in April 2012. Ms. Ricard has held various leadership positions at Mosaic since its formation, including
Vice President—International Distribution, Vice President—Business Development and Vice President—Supply Chain. Prior to Mosaic’s formation, Ms. Ricard worked for Cargill in various roles including risk management,
supply chain and commodity trading.







Lawrence W. Stranghoener.Mr. Stranghoener joined us as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer in October 2004. He previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Thrivent Financial for Lutherans and its predecessor organization from January 1, 2001 until October 2004, where he had
responsibility over the organization’s investments, finance and related functions. Prior to that, from 1983 through December 1999, Mr. Stranghoener worked in various senior management positions with Honeywell, Inc. in the United States and
Europe, including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Business Development, Vice President of Finance, Director of Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis and Director of Investor Relations. In December 1999, following
the Honeywell-AlliedSignal merger, Mr. Stranghoener joined Techies.com of Edina, Minnesota, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Our executive officers are generally elected to serve until their respective successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. No “family relationships,”
as that term is defined in Item 401(d) of Regulation S-K, exist among any of the listed officers.

