Item 1. Business.

OVERVIEW

The Mosaic Company is one of the world’s leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients for the
global agriculture industry. Through our broad product offering, we are a single source supplier of phosphate- and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients. We serve customers in approximately 40 countries. We mine phosphate rock in
Florida and process rock into finished phosphate products at facilities in Florida and Louisiana. We mine potash in Saskatchewan, New Mexico and Michigan. We have other production, blending or distribution operations in Brazil, China, India,
Argentina, and Chile, and recently made a strategic equity investment in a new phosphate rock mine in Peru. Our operations include the top four nutrient-consuming countries in the world.

The Mosaic Company is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in March 2004 and serves as the parent company of the business that was formed through the October 2004 combination of IMC Global Inc.
and the fertilizer businesses of Cargill, Incorporated. We are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “MOS” and are headquartered in Plymouth, Minnesota.

We conduct our business through wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries as well as businesses in which we own less than a majority or a non-controlling
interest. We are organized into two reportable business segments: Phosphates and Potash. The following chart shows the respective contributions to fiscal 2011 sales volumes, net sales and operating earnings for each of these business segments and
Corporate, Eliminations and Other:





Phosphates Segment—We are the largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and one of the largest
producers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in the United States. We sell phosphate-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients throughout North America and internationally. Our Phosphates segment also includes our North American and
international distribution activities. Our distribution activities include sales offices, port terminals and warehouses in the United States, Canada, and several other key international countries. In addition, the international distribution
activities include blending, bagging and production facilities in Brazil, China, India, Argentina and Chile. We accounted for approximately 13% of estimated global production and 57% of estimated North American production of concentrated phosphate
crop nutrients during fiscal 2011.







Potash Segment—We are the third-largest producer of potash in the world. We sell potash
throughout North America and internationally, principally as fertilizer, but also for use in industrial applications and, to a lesser degree, as animal feed ingredients. We accounted for approximately 12% of estimated global potash production and
38% of estimated North American potash production during fiscal 2011.

Corporate, Eliminations and Other—Other net sales and
operating earnings in the charts above include sales of nitrogen products and the results of our corporate operations.





As used in this report:



•“Mosaic” means The Mosaic Company, both before and after the Merger described below under “Cargill Transaction”;



•“GNS” means the company known as GNS II (U.S.) Corp. until it was renamed The Mosaic Company in connection with the Merger;



•“MOS Holdings” means the company known as The Mosaic Company until it was renamed MOS Holdings Inc. in connection with the
Merger;



•“we”, “us”, and “our” refer to Mosaic and its direct and indirect subsidiaries,
individually or in any combination;



•“IMC” means IMC Global Inc.;



•“Cargill” means Cargill, Incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination;



•“Cargill Crop Nutrition” means the crop nutrient business we acquired from Cargill in the Combination;



•“Combination” means the October 22, 2004 combination of IMC and Cargill Crop Nutrition;



•“Cargill Transaction” means the transactions described below under “Cargill Transaction”;



•“Merger” means the Merger described below under “Cargill Transaction”;



•references in this report to a particular fiscal year are to the twelve months ended May 31 of that year; and



•“tonne” or “tonnes” means a metric tonne or tonnes of 2,205 pounds each unless we specifically state
that we mean short or long tons.

Cargill Transaction

On May 25, 2011, we consummated the first in a series of transactions intended to result in the split-off and orderly distribution of Cargill’s
approximately 64% equity interest in us through a series of public offerings (the “Cargill Transaction”). These transactions included the following:



•A Merger (the “Merger”) between a subsidiary of GNS and MOS Holdings that had the effect of recapitalizing our prior Common
Stock and making GNS the parent company of MOS Holdings. Prior to the Merger, GNS was a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company then known as The Mosaic







Company. In the Merger, all of the outstanding stock of MOS Holdings was converted, on a one-for-one basis, into GNS stock. In connection with the Merger, the company formerly known as The Mosaic
Company was renamed MOS Holdings Inc. and GNS was renamed The Mosaic Company. Following the Merger, our common stock continues to trade under the ticker symbol MOS.



•Cargill conducted a split-off (the “Split-off”) in which it exchanged approximately 178.3 million of our shares that it
received in the Merger for shares of Cargill stock held by certain Cargill stockholders (the “Exchanging Cargill Stockholders”).



•Cargill also exchanged all of the remaining 107.5 million of our shares that it received in the Merger with certain debt holders of Cargill (the
“Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders”) for Cargill debt (the “Debt Exchange”). As of May 25, 2011, Cargill no longer owned any outstanding shares of Mosaic.



•Certain of the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders (the “MAC Trusts”) and the Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders (collectively, the
“Selling Stockholders”) then sold an aggregate of 115.0 million shares of our Common Stock that they received in the Split-off and the Debt Exchange in an underwritten secondary public offering (the initial
“Formation Offering”).

Pursuant to a ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, the Merger,
Split-off and Debt Exchange are expected to be tax-free to Cargill, Mosaic and their respective shareholders.

We have agreed to conduct a
series of additional Formation Offerings, if necessary, within 15 months after the Split-off to provide for the sale of an additional 42.0 million of the shares of our stock received by the MAC Trusts in the Split-off.

All other shares of our stock received by the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders and not sold in the Formation Offerings (approximately 129.0 million
shares in the aggregate) are generally subject to transfer restrictions and will be released in three equal annual installments beginning on the two and one- half year anniversary of the Split-off. We would, at the request of the MAC Trusts or at
our own election, register certain of our shares for sale in a secondary offering that could occur each year after the second anniversary of the Split-off, with the first such offering occurring not earlier than twelve months after the last of the
Formation Offerings and certain other primary or secondary offerings.

Following 180 days after the four-and-a-half year anniversary of the
Split-off, the MAC Trusts have two rights to request that we file a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, pursuant to which the MAC Trusts could sell any remaining shares received in the Split-off.

Significant
Stockholder

Governance Agreement







matter, and (ii) Class B Common Stock (other than with respect to the election of directors and with respect to a proposal to convert the Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock
or Common Stock (or a combination thereof)) at all meetings of our stockholders in a manner that is proportionate to the manner in which all holders, other than the Significant Stockholders, who have submitted proxies to us in respect of such
meeting have authorized their securities represented by such proxies to be voted.

We have agreed that, among other things, and subject to
certain exceptions, we will not engage in certain prohibited acts (“Prohibited Acts”) for a period ending two years after the Merger and that we will indemnify Cargill for certain taxes and tax-related losses imposed on
Cargill if we engage in a Prohibited Act or in the event we are in breach of representations or warranties made in support of the tax-free nature of the Merger, Split-off and Debt Exchange, if our Prohibited Act or breach causes the Merger,
Split-off and/or Debt Exchange to fail to qualify as tax-free transactions.

We expect the Cargill Transaction to benefit us by improving our
long-term strategic and financial flexibility, as well as greatly increasing the liquidity of our common stock. The Cargill Transaction resulted in no change to the total number of our outstanding shares, the economic rights of our shares or
earnings per share. The Cargill Transaction also is not expected to have a material impact on our underlying financial performance or current business operations.

We have included additional information about the Cargill Transaction, including additional information regarding Prohibited Acts and the indemnity to Cargill we refer to above, in Note 2 of our
Consolidated Financial Statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference, and the principal transaction documents related to the Cargill Transaction are incorporated by reference as exhibits to this report.

The Hardee County Extension of the South Fort Meade Mine

In July 2010, the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida (the “Jacksonville District Court”) issued a preliminary injunction (the “First
Preliminary Injunction”) that prevented us from extending the mining at our South Fort Meade, Florida, phosphate rock mine into Hardee County (the “Hardee County Extension”). The First Preliminary Injunction was
issued in a lawsuit brought by several non-governmental organizations challenging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (the “Corps”) actions in granting a permit (the “Hardee County Extension
Permit”) to us for the mining of wetlands in the Hardee County Extension.

In response to the First Preliminary Injunction, we
were forced to indefinitely close the South Fort Meade mine. We subsequently entered into a partial settlement (the “Partial Settlement”) with the plaintiffs that allowed us to commence mining in a limited area of the Hardee
County Extension (“Phase I”) from December 2010 until June 2011 at a reduced operating rate.

In April 2011, the
Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the First Preliminary Injunction effective July 7, 2011.

On April 19, 2011, we notified
the Jacksonville District Court that we planned to conduct uplands-only mining (i.e.,non-wetlands) in an area (“Phase II”) at our South Fort Meade mine. Uplands-only mining does not require a federal permit, the
Jacksonville District Court and the plaintiffs had previously indicated that uplands mining is permissible and the Corps notified the Jacksonville District Court that it had no objection to our uplands-only mining contingency plan because no federal
permit is required to mine uplands. Our mining plan contemplated that we would mine an estimated 2.4 million tonnes of phosphate rock from Phase II during a period ranging from approximately June 2011 into July 2012.

On July 8, 2011, the Jacksonville District Court issued a second preliminary injunction (the “Second Preliminary
Injunction”) again preventing us from mining the Hardee County Extension, including uplands in Phase II.







Although the South Fort Meade mine is one of our two largest phosphate rock mines, as a result of our
successful execution of mitigation measures, the indefinite closure of the South Fort Meade mine for most of the first six months of fiscal 2011 and reduced operating rate at the mine for the remainder of the fiscal year did not significantly impact
our sales volumes for fiscal 2011 although it did adversely affect our gross margin.

In response to the Second Preliminary Injunction, we
have stopped mining in the Hardee County Extension. For fiscal 2012, we believe we will be able to continue to support planned finished phosphate production levels through a continuation of our mitigation activities although the Second Preliminary
Injunction could increase fiscal 2012 costs substantially, principally if we need to purchase incremental levels of phosphate rock in the second half of fiscal 2012. The degree to which we are able to successfully mitigate the effects of the Second
Preliminary Injunction in the longer-term remains uncertain.

We believe that the plaintiffs’ claims in this case are without merit and
that the Second Preliminary Injunction is not supported by the facts or the law. We intend to vigorously defend the Corps’ issuance of the Hardee County Extension Permit and our rights to mine the Hardee County Extension.

We have included additional information about the Hardee County Extension in this report in Part I, Item IA, “Risk Factors,” in our
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“Management’s Analysis”) that is incorporated by reference in this report in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements that are incorporated by reference in this report in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.”

Other Business Developments during Fiscal 2011

During fiscal 2011, we continued to execute on our strategic priorities. At the core of our strategy is a plan to extend our resource base and invest in
the growth of both phosphates and potash. In the Phosphates segment, we are focusing on diversifying our phosphate rock sources, growing the value of our business and maintaining our position as one of the lowest cost phosphate producers in the
world. In the Potash segment, we are growing by investing in brownfield expansions. Our global distribution network improves the access of our North American production assets to the global markets for our products and helps balance the seasonality
of our business. In fiscal 2011 the steps we took to execute our strategic priorities included the following:



•We continued the expansion of capacity in our Potash segment, in line with our view of the long-term fundamentals of that business. The planned
brownfield expansions over the next decade are expected to increase our annual proven peaking capacity for finished product by approximately five million tonnes. We have completed the first of our planned expansions with the other remaining projects
progressing as planned. We are positioning our expansion projects so that we are able to bring the additional capacity on line when market demand warrants.



•We diversified our phosphate rock sources in alignment with our strategy. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we acquired a 35% economic interest in a
joint venture, with subsidiaries of Vale S.A. (“Vale”) and Mitsui & Co., Ltd., that owns the recently opened phosphate rock mine (the “Miski Mayo Mine”) in the Bayovar region of Peru for $385
million. Phosphate rock production started at the Miski Mayo Mine and shipments began in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The Miski Mayo Mine’s annual production capacity is expected to be 3.9 million tonnes when fully operational.



•We completed the sale of our 20.1% interest in Fosfertil S.A. to Vale in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 for proceeds of $1 billion which resulted in
a pre-tax gain of $685.6 million. The tax impact of this transaction was $126.1 million and was included in our provision for income taxes as of May 31, 2011.



•On January 13, 2011, we redeemed the remaining $455.4 million aggregate principal amount of our 7-3/8% senior notes due December 2014. We expect
that annual interest expense will be reduced by approximately $34 million due to the redemption. We recorded a pre-tax charge of approximately $19 million primarily related to the call premium and the write-off of unamortized fees.







•On April 26, 2011, we entered into a new unsecured five-year revolving credit facility of up to $750 million (the “Mosaic Credit
Facility”). The revolving credit facility is available for revolving credit loans, swing line loans of up to $20 million and letters of credit of up to $300 million. The Mosaic Credit Facility replaces a prior unsecured credit facility
that consisted of a revolving facility of up to $500 million, swing line loans of up to $20 million and letters of credit of up to $200 million (the “Prior Credit Facility”). The Prior Credit Facility was terminated
contemporaneously with our entry into the Mosaic Credit Facility. We entered into the Mosaic Credit Facility to reduce interest rates and unused commitment fees, improve other terms compared to the Prior Credit Facility, and to avoid any potential
conflict with the terms of the Prior Credit Facility in connection with the consummation of the Cargill Transaction.



•On May 2, 2011, we notified Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. (“PCS”) that we had satisfied our obligation to
produce potash from our Esterhazy, Saskatchewan, mine under a tolling agreement (the “Tolling Agreement”). Under the agreement, we have provided PCS with potash from the Esterhazy mine at cost for forty years. In recent
years, PCS has elected to receive approximately one million tonnes per year under the agreement. We and PCS are currently in litigation (the “Tolling Agreement Dispute”) concerning our respective rights and obligations under
the agreement. Pursuant to a court order in the Tolling Agreement Dispute, we are continuing to supply potash under the terms of the Tolling Agreement until trial begins, currently scheduled for January 2012. In the event that PCS does not prevail
after trial on the merits of its underlying claim, PCS has agreed to pay monetary damages to us for the loss we suffer as a result of the court’s order.

We have included additional information about these and other developments in our business during fiscal 2011 in our Management’s Analysis and in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

The discussion below of our business segment operations should be read in conjunction with the following information that we have included in this report:



•The risk factors discussed in this report in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”



•Our Management’s Analysis.



•The financial statements and supplementary financial information in our Consolidated Financial Statements (“Consolidated Financial
Statements”). This information is incorporated by reference in this report in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Phosphates Segment

OurPhosphatesbusiness segment owns and operates mines and
production facilities in Florida which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and phosphate-based animal feed ingredients, and processing plants in Louisiana which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. Our Phosphates segment’s
results include our North American distribution activities and the consolidated results of Phosphate Chemicals Export Association, Inc. (“PhosChem”), a U.S. Webb-Pomerene Act association of phosphate producers which exports
concentrated phosphate crop nutrient products around the world for us and PhosChem’s other member.

U.S. Phosphate Crop Nutrients
and Animal Feed Ingredients

We are the largest producer of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and animal feed
ingredients in the world. Our U.S. phosphates operations have capacity to produce approximately 4.4 million tonnes of phosphoric acid (“P2O5”) per year, or about 9% of world capacity and about 45% of North American capacity. Phosphoric acid is







produced by reacting finely ground phosphate rock with sulfuric acid. Phosphoric acid is the key building block for the production of high analysis or concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and
animal feed products, and is the most comprehensive measure of phosphate capacity and production and a commonly used benchmark in our industry. Our U.S. phosphoric acid production totaled approximately 3.9 million tonnes during fiscal 2011 and
accounted for approximately 10% of estimated global production and 46% of estimated North American output during fiscal 2011.

Our phosphate
crop nutrient products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors and retailers. Our principal phosphate crop nutrient products are:



•Diammonium Phosphate (“DAP”). DAP is the most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient worldwide. DAP is produced by
combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. This initial reaction creates a slurry that is then pumped into a granulation plant where it is reacted with additional ammonia to produce DAP. DAP is a solid granular product.



•Monoammonium Phosphate (“MAP”). MAP is the second most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient and the fastest
growing phosphate product worldwide. MAP is also produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. The resulting slurry is then pumped into the granulation plant where it is reacted with additional phosphoric acid to produce MAP.
MAP is a solid granular product, but requires less ammonia and more sulfur than DAP.



•MicroEssentials®is a value-added ammoniated
phosphate product that is enhanced through a patented process that creates very thin platelets of sulfur and other micronutrients, such as zinc, on the granulated product. The patented process incorporates both the sulfate and elemental forms of
sulfur, providing season long availability to crops.

In addition, our Phosphates segment is one of the
largest producers and marketers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in the world. Production of our animal feed ingredients products is located at our New Wales, Florida facility. We market our feed phosphate primarily under the leading brand
names of Biofos®and Multifos®.







Our primary phosphate crop nutrient production facilities are located in central Florida and Louisiana. The
following map shows the locations of each of our phosphate concentrates plants in the United States and the locations of each of our active and planned future phosphate mines in Florida:



Annual capacity by plant as of May 31, 2011 and production volumes by plant for fiscal 2011 are listed below:



(tonnes in millions)Phosphoric AcidProcessedPhosphate(a)/DAP/MAP/MicroEssentials®/FeedPhosphateFacilityOperationalCapacity(b)ProductionOperationalCapacity(b)ProductionFlorida:Bartow1.00.92.12.1New Wales1.71.64.23.3Riverview0.90.81.71.73.63.38.07.1Louisiana:Faustina--1.71.3Uncle Sam0.80.6--0.80.61.71.3Total4.43.99.78.4



(a)Our effective capacity to produce processed phosphates has been less than our operational capacity stated in the table above, except to the extent we
purchase phosphoric acid.







(b)Actual operating rates vary from those shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products,
maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

The phosphoric
acid produced at Uncle Sam is shipped to Faustina, where it is used to produce DAP and MAP. Our Faustina plant also manufactures ammonia that is mostly consumed in our concentrate plants.

We produced approximately 7.9 million tonnes of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients for fiscal 2011 and accounted for roughly 13% of estimated world output and 57% of estimated North American
production.

Phosphate Rock

Phosphate rock is the key mineral used to produce phosphate crop nutrients and feed phosphate. Our phosphate rock production totaled approximately 11.5 million tonnes in fiscal 2011 and accounted for
approximately 6% of estimated world production and 43% of estimated North American production. We are the world’s second largest miner of phosphate rock and currently operate four mines with a combined annual capacity of approximately
15.9 million tonnes. Production of one tonne of DAP requires between 1.6 and 1.7 tonnes of phosphate rock.

All of our wholly owned
phosphate mines and related mining operations are located in central Florida. During fiscal 2011, we operated five active mines: Four Corners, South Fort Meade, Hookers Prairie, Wingate and Hopewell. The Hopewell mine’s reserves were exhausted
in January 2011. We plan to develop two large mines at Ona and at DeSoto to replace mines that will be depleted at various times during the next decade.

The phosphate deposits of Florida are of sedimentary origin and are part of a phosphate-bearing province that extends from southern Florida north along the Atlantic coast into southern Virginia. Our
active phosphate mines are primarily located in what is known as the Bone Valley Member of the Peace River Formation in the Central Florida Phosphate District. The southern portions of the Four Corners and Wingate mines are in what is referred to as
the Undifferentiated Peace River Formation, in which our future Ona and DeSoto mines would also be located. Phosphate mining has been conducted in the Central Florida Phosphate District since the late 1800’s. The potentially mineable portion of
the district encompasses an area approximately 80 miles in length in a north-south direction and approximately 40 miles in width.

We extract
phosphate ore using large surface mining machines that we own called “draglines.” Prior to extracting the ore, the draglines must first remove a 10 to 50 foot layer of sandy overburden. At our Wingate mine, we also utilize dredges to
remove the overburden and mine the ore. We then process the ore at beneficiation plants that we own at each active mine where the ore goes through washing, screening, sizing and flotation processes designed to separate the phosphate rock from sands,
clays and other foreign materials.Prior to commencing operations at any of our planned future mines, we would need to acquire new draglines or move existing draglines to the mines and, unless the beneficiation plant at an existing mine were
used, construct a beneficiation plant.







The following table shows, for each of our phosphate mines, annual capacity as of May 31, 2011 and
rock production volume and grade for the past three fiscal years:



(tonnes in millions)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)201120102009FacilityProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)ProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)ProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)Four Corners6.56.765.530.05.666.430.45.164.929.7South Fort Meade(d)6.01.863.729.24.363.028.85.161.928.3Hookers Prairie2.01.865.830.11.864.829.71.664.829.7Wingate1.41.064.629.61.165.029.70.965.530.0Hopewell(e)-0.266.530.40.568.731.40.570.932.4Total15.911.565.229.813.365.029.813.264.029.3



(a)Actual operating rates vary from those shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products, the
quality of the reserves, the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, weather conditions, and other operating conditions, as well as the effect of recent
initiatives intended to improve operational excellence.

(b)Bone Phosphate of Lime (“BPL”) is a traditional reference to the amount (by weight percentage) of calcium phosphate contained
in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher BPL corresponds to a higher percentage of calcium phosphate.

(c)The percent of
P2O5in the above table represents a measure of the phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher
percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body.

(d)Production at the South Fort Meade mine for fiscal 2011 reflects the temporary shutdown during most of the first six months of fiscal 2011 and
subsequent reduced production level for the remainder of fiscal 2011 at the South Fort Meade mine as a result of the First Preliminary Injunction and Partial Settlement.

(e)The Hopewell mine’s reserves were exhausted in January 2011.

We also purchase phosphate rock from time to time. The level of our purchases of phosphate rock in the future will depend upon, among other factors, our phosphate rock mining plans, the status of our
permits including the Hardee County Extension Permit, our need for additional phosphate rock to allow us to operate our concentrates plants at or near full capacity, the quality and level of impurities in the phosphate rock that we mine, and our
development or acquisition of additional phosphate rock deposits and mines. Depending on product mix and tonnage requirements, our need for purchased phosphate rock could increase in the future in order to meet product specifications, particularly
as we develop our proposed Ona and DeSoto mines. Our investment in the Miski Mayo Joint Venture and related commercial offtake supply agreement to purchase a share of the phosphate rock from the Miski Mayo Mine reduces our purchases of phosphate
rock from other suppliers.

Reserves

We estimate our phosphate rock reserves based upon exploration core drilling as well as technical and economic analyses to determine that reserves can be economically mined. Proven (measured) reserves are
those resources of sufficient concentration to meet minimum physical, chemical and economic criteria related to our current product standards and mining and production practices. Our estimates of probable (indicated) reserves are based on
information similar to that used for proven reserves, but sites for drilling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced than for proven reserves, although the degree of assurance is high enough to assume continuity between such sites.
Proven reserves are determined using a minimum drill hole spacing of two sites per 40 acre block. Probable reserves have less than two drill holes per 40 acre block, but geological data provides a high degree of assurance that continuity exists
between sites.







The following table sets forth our proven and probable phosphate reserves as of May 31, 2011:



(tonnes in millions)Reserve Tonnes(a) (b) (c)Average BPL(d)% P2O5Active MinesFour Corners53.665.930.2South Fort Meade53.8(e)64.229.4Hookers Prairie5.7(e), (f)65.530.0Wingate36.563.529.1Total Active Mines149.664.729.6Future MiningOna245.563.529.0DeSoto148.0(g)64.829.7Total Future Mining393.564.029.3Total Mining543.164.229.4



(a)Reserves are in areas that are fully accessible for mining; free of surface or subsurface encumbrance, legal setbacks, wetland preserves and other
legal restrictions that preclude permittable access for mining; believed by us to be permittable; and meet specified minimum physical, economic and chemical criteria related to current mining and production practices.

(b)Reserve estimates are generally established by our personnel without a third party review. There has been no third party review of reserve estimates
within the last five years, except that in fiscal 2008, we engaged a third party to review the recoverable reserves at our Wingate mine’s Tract 2 pursuant to contractual requirements related to our acquisition of these reserves. The reserve
estimates have been prepared in accordance with the standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

(c)Of the reserves shown, 515.3 million tonnes are proven reserves, while approximately 1.6 million tonnes at Ona and 26.2 million tonnes
at DeSoto are probable reserves.

(d)Average product BPL ranges from approximately 64% to 66%.

(e)Approximately, 17.0 million of the tonnes shown for South Fort Meade have been reclassified from Hookers Prairie.

(f)Of the tonnes shown at Hookers Prairie, our lease of 1.4 million tonnes requires us to pay royalties of $2.00 per short ton of the reserves
that we mine. In addition, our lease of 1.4 million tonnes requires us to pay royalties between $1.25 to $1.35 per short ton that are generally credited against $250,000 advance royalties that we paid when we entered into the lease.

(g)In connection with the sale in 1994 of certain of the surface rights related to approximately 48.9 million tonnes of the reported DeSoto reserves,
we agreed not to mine such reserves until at least 2014. Our current mining plans do not contemplate mining these reserves until at least that time. In addition, in connection with the purchase in 1996 of approximately 99.1 million tonnes of
the reported Desoto reserves, we agreed to (i) pay royalties of between $0.50 and $0.90 per ton of rock mined based on future levels of DAP margins, (ii) pay to the seller lost income from the loss of surface use to the extent we use the
property for mining related purposes before January 1, 2015 and (iii) re-convey to the seller the lands which are not scheduled to be mined upon completion of the permitting process and the approval of the Development Order for the mine.

We generally own the reserves shown for active mines in the table above, with the only significant exceptions being further
described below:



•Of the tonnes shown for the Wingate mine, 1.6 million tonnes are under a lease that we have the right to extend through 2014 and for which we have
prepaid substantially all royalties.







•We hold the reserves for the Four Corners and Ona mines under leases that we have rights to extend to 2015 and 2022, respectively.



•We own the above-ground assets of the South Fort Meade mine, including the beneficiation plant, rail track and clay settling areas. A limited
partnership, South Ft. Meade Partnership, L.P. (“SFMP”), owns all of the mineable acres shown in the table for the South Fort Meade mine.



•We currently have a 94% economic interest in the profits and losses of SFMP. SFMP is included as a consolidated subsidiary in our financial statements.



•We have a long-term mineral lease with SFMP. This lease expires on December 31, 2025 or on the date that we have completed mining and reclamation
obligations associated with the leased property. Lease provisions include royalty payments and a commitment to give mining priority to the South Fort Meade phosphate reserves. We pay the partnership a royalty on each tonne mined and shipped from the
areas that we lease from it. Royalty payments to SFMP total approximately $4 million annually at current shipment rates.



•Through its arrangements with us, SFMP also earns income from mineral lease payments, agricultural lease payments and interest income, and uses those
proceeds primarily to pay dividends to its equity owners.



•The surface rights to approximately 882 acres shown in the table above for the South Fort Meade Mine are owned by SFMP, while the U.S. government owns
the mineral rights beneath. We control the rights to mine these reserves under a mining lease agreement and pay royalties on the tonnage extracted. Royalties on the approved leases equal approximately 5% of the six-month rolling average mining cost
of production when mining these reserves. Under the lease, we paid $0.3 million in royalties to the U.S. government in fiscal 2011.

In light of the long-term nature of our rights to our reserves, we expect to be able to mine all reported reserves that are not currently owned prior to termination or expiration of our rights. Additional
information regarding permitting is included in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, under “Environmental, Health and Safety Matters—Operating Requirements and Permitting” in our Management’s Analysis, and under
“Phosphate Mine Permitting in Florida” in Note 22 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sulfur

We use molten sulfur at our phosphates concentrates plants to produce sulfuric acid primarily for use in our production of phosphoric acid. We purchased
approximately 3.5 million long tons of sulfur during fiscal 2011. We purchase most of this sulfur from North American oil and natural gas refiners who are required to remove or recover sulfur during the refining process. Production of one tonne
of DAP requires approximately 0.4 long tons of sulfur. We procure our sulfur from multiple sources and receive it by truck or rail either direct to our phosphate plants or have it sent for gathering to terminals that are located on the US gulf
coast.

We own and operate a sulfur terminal in Houston, Texas and lease a terminal in Tampa, Florida. We own two ocean-going barges and
contract for operation of another ocean-going vessel that transport molten sulfur from the Texas terminals to Tampa and then onward by truck to our Florida phosphate plants. We also own a 50% equity interest in Gulf Sulphur Services Ltd., LLLP
(“Gulf Sulphur Services”), which is operated by our joint venture partner. Gulf Sulphur Services has a large sulfur transportation and terminaling business in the Gulf of Mexico, and handles these functions for a substantial
portion of our Florida sulfur volume. Gulf Sulphur Services’ capabilities include melting solid sulfur into the molten form that we use, which permits us to access sources of solid as well as molten sulfur. We further round out our sulfur
logistic assets with a large fleet of leased railcars that supplement our marine sulfur logistic system. Our Louisiana operations are served by truck, rail and barge from nearby refineries.







Although sulfur is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphate
facilities by a variety of means, sulfur is an important raw material used in our business that has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing and availability. Alternative transportation and terminaling facilities
might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to current transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of sulfur or disruptions to sulfur transportation or terminaling
facilities could have a material impact on our business. We have included a discussion of sulfur prices in our Management’s Analysis.

Ammonia

We use ammonia together
with phosphoric acid to produce both DAP and MAP. We used approximately 1.7 million tonnes of ammonia during fiscal 2011. Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately 0.2 tonnes of ammonia.

Our Florida ammonia needs are supplied by offshore producers, under multi-year and annual contracts. Ammonia for our New Wales and Riverview plants is
terminaled through an ammonia facility at Port Sutton, Florida that we lease for a term expiring in 2013, which we may extend for up to five additional years. A third party operates the Port Sutton ammonia facility pursuant to an agreement that
expires in 2013, which we may extend for an unlimited number of additional five year terms, as long as we or the other party is entitled to operate the ammonia facility. Ammonia for our Bartow plant is terminaled through another ammonia facility
owned and operated by a third party at Port Sutton, Florida pursuant to an agreement that expires in calendar 2012. Ammonia is transported by pipeline from the terminals to our production facilities. The service agreements with the pipeline
providers will expire at the end of calendar year 2011 for Bartow, New Wales and Riverview.

We produce ammonia at Faustina, Louisiana
primarily for our own consumption. Our annual capacity is approximately 500,000 tonnes. From time to time we may sell surplus ammonia to unrelated parties.

Although ammonia is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphates facilities by a variety of means, ammonia is an important raw material used in our business
that has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing, and alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to
existing transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of ammonia or disruptions to ammonia transportation or terminaling could have a material impact on our business. We have included a discussion of ammonia prices in our
Management’s Analysis.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is the primary raw material used to manufacture ammonia. At our Faustina facility, ammonia is manufactured on site. The majority of natural gas is purchased through firm delivery contracts
based on published index-based prices and is sourced from Texas and Louisiana via pipelines interconnected to the Henry Hub. We use over-the-counter swap and option contracts to forward price portions of future gas purchases. The portions of gas
purchases not forward priced are purchased at the index based prices or at domestic spot market prices under short-term contracts. We purchase approximately 14 MMbtu of natural gas per year for use in ammonia production at Faustina.

Because our ammonia requirements for our Florida operations are purchased rather than manufactured on site, we purchase approximately two MMbtu of
natural gas per year in Florida only as a thermal fuel for various production processes.

Florida Land Holdings

We are a significant landowner in the State of Florida, which in the future is expected to return to its historical status as one of the fastest areas of
population growth in the United States. We own land comprising







approximately 255,000 acres held in fee simple title in central Florida, and have the right to mine additional properties which contain phosphate rock reserves. Some of our land holdings are
needed to operate our Phosphates business, while a portion of our land assets, such as reclaimed properties, are not related to our operations. As a general matter, more of our reclaimed property becomes available for uses other than for phosphate
operations each year. Our land assets are generally comprised of concentrates plants, port facilities, phosphate mines and other property which we have acquired through our presence in Florida. We are currently taking initial steps as part of a
long-term future land use strategy to optimize the value of our land assets. For example, during fiscal 2011 we began development of Streamsong, a destination resort and conference center, in certain areas of previously mined land as part of our
long-term business strategy to maximize the value and utility of our extensive land holdings in Florida. The resort and conference center are expected to be completed in calendar 2013.

International Production

Our international operations include production in Brazil
and Argentina. Our production facilities include plants that produce up to 800,000 tonnes per year of single superphosphate (“SSP”) and granulated SSP crop nutrients by mixing sulfuric acid with phosphate rock. We sold one of
the SSP production facilities as described in Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Potash Segment

We are one of the leading potash producers in the world. We mine and process potash in Canada and the United States and sell potash
in North America and internationally. The term “potash” applies generally to the common salts of potassium. Muriate of potash (“MOP”) is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry. Red MOP has
traces of iron oxide. The granular and standard grade Red MOP products are well suited for direct fertilizer application and bulk blending. White MOP has a higher percent K20. White MOP, besides being well suited for the agricultural market, is used in many industrial applications.

Our potash products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors and retailers and are also used in the manufacture of mixed crop
nutrients and, to a lesser extent, in animal feed ingredients. We also sell potash to customers for industrial use. In addition, our potash products are used for de-icing and as a water softener regenerant.

We operate three potash mines in Canada, including two shaft mines with a total of three production shafts and one solution mine, as well as two potash
mines in the United States, including one shaft mine and one solution mine. We also own related refineries at each of the mines.

We have a
long term potash capacity expansion plan in Saskatchewan, Canada in response to expected growth in global potash demand. We expect the total planned expansions to increase our annualized proven peaking capacity for finished product by approximately
five million tonnes. The expansions are planned to occur over the next decade, with the first expansions already on line.







POTASH EXPANSION PROJECTS



(tonnes in millions)AnnualPlanned 
PeakingCapacityEstimatedCompletion(Fiscal Year)CompleteColonsay(a)0.2-Esterhazy0.1-In progressBelle Plaine0.62012Colonsay0.52013Esterhazy1.72012-2017FutureBelle Plaine1.32016-19Colonsay0.520164.9Tolling Agreement(b)1.3Peaking capacity as of May 31, 201110.316.5



(a)As of May 31, 2011, 0.1 million tonnes were placed in service and included in operational capacity

(b)The status of the Tolling Agreement is discussed below under “Canadian Mines.”









As shown in the table above, we have completed the first capacity expansions at our Esterhazy and Colonsay,
Saskatchewan potash mines. In addition, we anticipate completing certain expansion projects at our Belle Plaine and Esterhazy, Saskatchewan potash mines in the second half of fiscal 2012. All other expansion projects are progressing as planned.

The map below shows the location of each of our potash mines.



Our current potash annualized proven peaking capacity, excluding tonnage produced at Esterhazy under the Tolling
Agreement, totals 10.3 million tonnes of product per year and accounted for approximately 14% of world capacity and 37% of North American capacity. Production during fiscal 2011, excluding tonnage produced for a third party at Esterhazy,
totaled 7.4 million tonnes and accounted for approximately 12% of estimated world production and 38% of estimated North American production.







The following table shows, for each of our potash mines, annual capacity as of May 31, 2011 and volume
of mined ore, average grade and finished product output for the past three fiscal years:



(tonnes in millions)201120102009FacilityAnnualizedProvenPeakingCapacity(a)(b)(c)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)(b)(d)OreMinedGrade% K2O(e)FinishedProductOreMinedGrade% K2O(e)FinishedProductOreMinedGrade% K2O(e)FinishedProductCanadaBelle Plaine—MOP2.82.38.418.02.25.718.01.56.918.01.8Colonsay—MOP1.81.63.225.01.12.224.90.82.626.61.0Esterhazy—MOP5.34.811.823.93.96.724.12.38.325.13.0Canadian Total9.98.723.421.97.214.621.84.617.822.65.8United StatesCarlsbad—MOP0.50.53.010.20.33.011.20.42.510.20.2Carlsbad—K-Mag®(f)1.11.03.55.10.72.76.70.62.76.40.6Carlsbad Total1.61.56.57.41.05.79.11.05.28.20.8Hersey—MOP(g)0.10.10.126.70.10.126.7-0.226.70.1United States Total1.71.66.61.15.81.05.40.9Totals11.610.330.018.88.320.418.35.623.219.46.7Total excluding
tollproduction(h)10.327.27.419.35.220.95.9



(a)Finished product.

(b)Actual operating rates may vary from those shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products,
maintenance and turnaround time, the quality of the reserves and the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

(c)Represents full capacity assuming no turnaround or maintenance time.

(d)Annual operational capacity is our estimated annual achievable production level.

(e)Grade % K20 is a traditional reference to the percentage (by weight) of potassium oxide contained in the ore. A higher percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of potassium oxide in the ore.

(f)K-Mag is a specialty product that we produce at our Carlsbad facility.

(g)The Hersey facility also mines, processes and sells salt.

(h)We toll produce MOP at our Esterhazy mine under the Tolling Agreement.

Canadian Mines

We operate three Canadian potash facilities all located in the
southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan, including our solution mine at Belle Plaine, two interconnected mine shafts at our Esterhazy shaft mine and our shaft mine at Colonsay.

Extensive potash deposits are found in the southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan. The potash ore is contained in a predominantly rock salt formation known as the Prairie Evaporites. The Prairie
Evaporites deposits are bounded by limestone formations and contain the potash beds. Three potash deposits of economic importance occur in Saskatchewan: the Esterhazy, Belle Plaine and Patience Lake members. The Patience Lake member is mined at
Colonsay, and the Esterhazy member at Esterhazy. At Belle Plaine all three members are mined. Each of the major potash members contains several potash beds of different thicknesses and grades. The particular beds mined at Colonsay and Esterhazy have
a mining height of 11 and 8 feet, respectively. At Belle Plaine several beds of different thicknesses are mined.

Our potash mines in Canada
produce MOP exclusively. Esterhazy and Colonsay utilize shaft mining while Belle Plaine utilizes solution mining technology. Traditional potash shaft mining takes place underground at depths of over 3,000 feet







where continuous mining machines cut out the ore face and load it onto conveyor belts. The ore is then crushed, moved to storage bins and hoisted to refineries above ground. In contrast, our
solution mining process involves heated water, which is pumped through a “cluster” to dissolve the potash in the ore beds at a depth of approximately 5,400 feet. A cluster consists of a series of boreholes drilled into the potash ore by a
portable, all-weather, electric drilling rig. A separate distribution center at each cluster controls the brine flow. The solution containing dissolved potash and salt is pumped to a refinery where sodium chloride, a co-product of this process, is
separated from the potash through the use of evaporation and crystallization techniques. Concurrently, the solution is pumped into a 150 acre cooling pond where additional crystallization occurs and the resulting product is recovered via a floating
dredge. Refined potash is dewatered, dried and sized. Our Canadian operations produce 15 different MOP products, including industrial grades, many through proprietary processes.

Tolling Agreement

PCS



Belle PlaineColonsayEsterhazyTotalAcres under controlOwned in fee13,85110,039109,196133,086Leased from Province51,56867,006193,000311,574Leased from others-32063,61563,935Total under control65,41977,365365,811508,595

We believe that our mineral rights in Saskatchewan are sufficient to support current operations for more than a century.
Leases are generally renewable at our option for successive terms, generally 21 years each, except that certain of the acres shown above as “Leased from others” are leased under long-term leases with terms (including renewals at our
option) that expire from 2094 to 2142.

We pay Canadian resource taxes consisting of the Potash Production Tax and resource surcharge. The
Potash Production Tax is a Saskatchewan provincial tax on potash production and consists of a base payment and a profits tax. We also pay a percentage of the value of resource sales from our Saskatchewan mines. In addition to the Canadian resource
taxes, royalties are payable to the mineral owners in respect of potash reserves or production of potash. We have included a further discussion of the Canadian resource taxes and royalties in our Management’s Analysis.

Since December 1985, we have experienced an inflow of salt saturated brine into our Esterhazy mine. At various times since then, we have experienced new
or substantially increased brine inflows at the Esterhazy mine. As a







result of these brine inflows, we incur expenditures, certain of which have been capitalized while others have been charged to expense, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”), to control the inflow. It is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at Esterhazy may further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the
extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining process or abandon the mine. See “Potash Net Sales and Gross Margin” in our
Management’s Analysis and “Accidents occurring in the course of our operating activities could result in significant liabilities, interruptions or shutdowns of facilities or the need for significant safety or other expenditures” in
Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this report, both of which are incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. We have begun construction of a new third shaft
at the Esterhazy mine as part of our potash expansion plan and which is also intended to mitigate part of the risk from the inflow.

Due to
the ongoing brine inflow problem at Esterhazy, underground operations at this facility are currently not insurable for water incursion problems. Like other potash producers’ shaft mines, our Colonsay, Saskatchewan, and Carlsbad, New Mexico,
mines are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of their shaft mining operations, but water inflow risks at these mines are included in our insurance coverage subject to deductibles, retentions and limits negotiated with our
insurers.

United States Mines

In the United States, we have two potash facilities, including a shaft mine located in Carlsbad, New Mexico and a solution mine located in Hersey, Michigan.

Our potash mineral rights in the United States consist of the following:



CarlsbadHerseyTotalAcres under controlOwned in fee-581581Long-term leases73,7811,79975,580Total under control73,7812,38076,161

The Carlsbad ore reserves are of two types: (1) sylvinite, a mixture of potassium chloride and sodium chloride that
is the same as the ore mined in Saskatchewan, and (2) langbeinite, a double sulfate of potassium and magnesium. These two types of potash reserves occur in a predominantly rock salt formation known as the Salado Formation. The McNutt Member of
this formation consists of eleven units of economic importance, of which we currently mine two. The McNutt Member’s evaporite deposits are interlayered with anhydrite, polyhalite, potassium salts, clay, and minor amounts of sandstone and
siltstone.

Continuous underground mining methods are utilized to extract the ore. Drum type mining machines are used to cut the sylvinite and
langbeinite ores from the face. Mined ore is then loaded onto conveyors, transported to storage areas, and then hoisted to the surface for further processing at our refinery.

Two types of potash are produced at the Carlsbad refinery. MOP is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry.
Double sulfate of potash magnesia is the second type of potash, which we market under our brand name K-Mag®, and
contains sulfur, potassium and magnesium, with low levels of chloride.

At the Carlsbad facility, we mine and refine potash from 73,781 acres
of mineral rights. We control these reserves pursuant to either (i) leases from the U.S. government that, in general, continue in effect at our option (subject to readjustment by the U.S. government every 20 years) or (ii) leases from the
State of New Mexico that







continue as long as we continue to produce from them. These reserves contain an estimated total of 260 million tonnes of potash mineralization (calculated after estimated extraction losses)
in two mining beds evaluated at thicknesses ranging from 4.5 feet to in excess of 11 feet. At average refinery rates, these ore reserves are estimated to be sufficient to yield 15 million tonnes of concentrates from sylvinite with an average
grade of approximately 60% K2O and 22 million tonnes of
langbeinite concentrates with an average grade of approximately 22% K2O. At projected rates of production, we estimate that Carlsbad’s reserves of sylvinite and langbeinite are sufficient to support operations for approximately 32 years and 25 years, respectively.

At Hersey, Michigan, we operate a solution mining facility which produces salt and potash. Mining occurs in the Michigan Basin in a
predominantly rock salt formation called the Salina Group Evaporite. This formation is a clean salt deposit with interlayered beds of sylvinite and carbonate. At the Hersey facility, our mineral rights consist of 581 acres owned in fee and 1,799
acres controlled under leases that, in general, continue in effect at our option as long as we continue our operations at Hersey. These lands contain an estimated 41 million tonnes of potash mineralization contained in two beds ranging in
thickness from 14 to 30 feet.

Royalties for the U.S. operations amounted to approximately $13.2 million for fiscal 2011. These royalties are
established by the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, in the case of the Carlsbad leases from the U.S. government, and pursuant to provisions set forth in the leases, in the case of the Carlsbad state leases and the Hersey
leases.

Reserves

Our estimates below of our potash reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization are based on exploration drill hole data, seismic data and actual mining
results over more than 35 years. Proven reserves are estimated by identifying material in place that is delineated on at least two sides and material in place within a half-mile radius or distance from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration
core hole. Probable reserves are estimated by identifying material in place within a one mile radius from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Historical extraction ratios from the many years of mining results are then applied to
both types of material to estimate the proven and probable reserves. We believe that all reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization reported below are potentially recoverable using existing production shaft and refinery locations.

Our estimated recoverable potash reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization as of May 31, 2011 for each of our mines is as follows:



(tonnes in millions)Reserves(a)(b)PotashMineralization(a)(c)FacilityRecoverableTonnesAverageGrade(% K2O)PotentiallyRecoverableTonnesCanadaBelle Plaine79218.02,327Colonsay23926.4228Esterhazy87524.5479sub-totals1,90622.03,034United StatesCarlsbad2607.5-Hersey4126.7-sub-totals30110.1-Totals2,20720.43,034









(a)There has been no third party review of reserve estimates within the last five years. The reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the
standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the SEC.

(b)Includes 1.2 billion tonnes of proven reserves and 1.0 billion tonnes of probable reserves.

(c)The non-reserve potash mineralization reported in the table in some cases extends to the boundaries of the mineral rights we own or lease. Such
boundaries are up to 16 miles from the closest existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Based on available geologic data, the non-reserve potash mineralization represents potash that we expect to mine in the future, but it may not meet
all of the technical requirements for categorization as proven or probable reserves under Industry Guide 7.

As discussed
more fully above, we either own the reserves and mineralization shown above or lease them pursuant to mineral leases that generally remain in effect or are renewable at our option, or are long-term leases. Accordingly, we expect to be able to mine
all reported reserves that are leased prior to termination or expiration of the existing leases.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is used at our potash solution mines as a fuel to produce steam and to dry potash products. The steam is used to generate electricity, in
evaporation and crystallization processes and to provide thermal heat to the solution mining process. Our two solution mines accounted for approximately 77% of our Potash segment’s total natural gas requirements for potash production in fiscal
2011. At our shaft mines, natural gas is used as a fuel to heat fresh air supplied to the shaft mines and for drying potash products. Combined natural gas usage for both the solution and shaft mines approximated 15 MMbtu for fiscal 2011.
We purchase our natural gas requirements on firm delivery index price-based physical contracts and on short term spot-priced physical contracts. Our Canadian operations purchase all of their physical gas in Saskatchewan via the TransGas pipeline
system using AECO price indices as pricing references. The U.S. potash operations in Michigan and New Mexico purchase physical gas in their respective regional markets via the MichCon and El Paso Permian Basin market hubs as pricing references,
respectively. We use financial derivative contracts to manage the price of portions of our future purchases.

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES

United States and Canada

We have a United States and Canada sales and marketing
team that serves our business segments. We sell to wholesale distributors, retail chains, cooperatives, independent retailers and national accounts.

Customer service and the ability to effectively minimize the overall supply chain costs are key competitive factors in the crop nutrient and animal feed ingredients businesses. In addition to our
production facilities, to service the needs of our customers, we own, lease or have contractual throughput or other arrangements at strategically located distribution warehouses along or near the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers as well as in other key
agricultural regions of the United States and Canada. From these facilities, we market Mosaic produced phosphate and potash products for customers who in turn resell the product into the distribution channel or directly to farmers in the United
States and Canada.

We own port facilities in Savage, Minnesota as well as warehouse distribution facilities in Pekin, Illinois, Louisville,
Kentucky, Hendersonville, Kentucky, Melbourne, Kentucky and Houston, Texas which has a deep water berth providing access to the Gulf of Mexico.

In addition to the geographically situated facilities that we own, our U.S. distribution operations also include leased distribution space or contractual
throughput agreements in other key geographical areas such as California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania and Texas.







Our Canadian customers include independent dealers and national accounts. We also lease and own warehouse
facilities in Saskatchewan, Canada.

International

Outside of the United States and Canada, we market our Phosphates segment’s products through PhosChem, as well as our Phosphates segment’s own international distribution activities. During
fiscal 2011, PhosChem marketed approximately 71% of our phosphate export sales volume. We administer PhosChem on behalf of PhosChem’s member companies. We estimate that PhosChem’s sales represent approximately 65% of total U.S. export
volume of concentrated phosphates and 15% of global trade volume. The countries that account for the largest amount of PhosChem’s sales of concentrated phosphates include India, Australia, Brazil, Japan and Colombia. During fiscal 2011,
PhosChem’s dry concentrated phosphates exports to Asia were 62% of total dry shipments by volume, with India representing 52% of PhosChem’s total dry concentrated phosphates export shipments.

Our sales outside of the United States and Canada of Saskatchewan potash products are made through Canpotex Limited (“Canpotex”).
Canpotex is an export association of certain Canadian potash producers. Canpotex sales are generally allocated among the producer members based on production capacity. We currently supply approximately 37.1%, by volume, of Canpotex’s
requirements. Our potash exports from Carlsbad are sold through our own sales force. We also market our Potash segment’s products through our Phosphates segment, which acquires its potash primarily through Canpotex. The largest amount of
international potash sales are to China, India, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Southeast Asia, Australia and Latin America.

Our Phosphates segment also purchases phosphates, potash and nitrogen products from unrelated third parties.

To service the needs of our customers, our international distribution activities include a network of strategically located sales offices, crop nutrient blending and bagging facilities, port terminals and
warehouse distribution facilities that we own and operate in key geographic areas throughout several countries. The blending and bagging facilities primarily produce blended crop nutrients (“Blends”) from phosphate, potash
and nitrogen. The average product mix in our Blends (by volume) contains approximately 50% phosphate, 25% potash and 25% nitrogen, although this mix differs based on seasonal and other factors. Our international operations serve primarily as a sales
outlet for our North American Phosphates production, both for resale and as an input for Blends. Our Potash segment also has historically furnished a portion of the raw materials needs for the production of Blends, and is expected to continue to do
so in the future.







The following maps show the locations of our primary distribution operations in South America and Asia:





Other Products

With a strong brand position in a multi-billion dollar animal feed ingredients global market, our Phosphates segment supplies animal feed ingredients for poultry and livestock to customers in North
America, Latin America and Asia. Our potash sales to non-agricultural users are primarily to large industrial accounts and the animal feed industry. Additionally, we sell potash for de-icing and as a water softener regenerant.

COMPETITION

Because crop nutrients are global commodities available from numerous sources, crop nutrition companies compete primarily on the basis of delivered
price. Other competitive factors include product quality, cost and availability of raw materials, customer service, plant efficiency and availability of product. As a result, markets for our products are highly competitive. We compete with a broad
range of domestic and international producers, including farmer cooperatives, subsidiaries of larger companies, and independent crop nutrient companies. Foreign competitors often have access to cheaper raw materials, are required to comply with less
stringent regulatory requirements or are owned or subsidized by governments and, as a result, may have cost advantages over North American companies. We believe that our extensive North American and international production and distribution system
provides us with a competitive advantage by allowing us to achieve economies of scale and transportation and storage efficiencies and obtain market intelligence.

Unlike many of our competitors, we have our own distribution system to sell phosphate- and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients, whether produced by us or by other third parties, around
the globe. In North America, we have one of the largest and most strategically located distribution systems for crop nutrients, including warehouse facilities in key agricultural regions. We also have an extensive network of distribution facilities
internationally, including in the key growth markets of Latin America and Asia, with port terminals, warehouses, and blending plants in Brazil, Argentina, Chile, China, and India. Our global presence allows us to efficiently serve customers in
approximately 40 countries.







Phosphates Segment

Our Phosphates segment operates in a highly competitive global market. Among the competitors in the global phosphate industry are
domestic and foreign companies, as well as foreign government-supported producers in Asia and North Africa. Phosphate producers compete primarily based on price and, to a lesser extent, product quality, service and innovation, such as our
MicroEssentials®product. Major integrated producers of feed phosphates are located in the United States, Europe
and China. Many smaller producers are located in emerging markets around the world. Many of these smaller producers are not miners of phosphate rock or manufacturers of phosphoric acid and are required to purchase this material on the open market.

We believe that we are a low cost producer of phosphate-based crop nutrients, due in part to our scale, vertical integration and strategic
network of production and distribution facilities. As the world’s largest producer of concentrated phosphates, as well as the second largest miner of phosphate rock in the world and the largest in the United States, we maintain an advantage
over some competitors as the scale of operations effectively reduces production costs per unit. We are also vertically integrated to captively supply one of our key inputs, phosphate rock, to our phosphate production facilities. We believe that our
position as an integrated producer of phosphate rock provides us with a significant cost advantage over competitors that are non-integrated phosphate producers. Our investment in the Miski Mayo Mine and related commercial offtake supply agreement to
purchase a share of the phosphate rock will also allow us to reduce our purchases of phosphate rock from other suppliers.

We produce ammonia
at our Faustina concentrates plant in quantities sufficient to meet approximately one quarter of our total ammonia needs. With no captive ammonia production in Florida, we are subject to significant volatility in our purchase price of ammonia from
world markets. With our own sulfur transportation barges and our 50% ownership interest in Gulf Sulphur Services, we are also well-positioned to source an adequate, flexible and cost-effective supply of sulfur, our third key input. We believe that
our investments in sulfur transportation assets continue to afford us a competitive advantage compared to other North American producers in cost and access to sulfur.

With production facilities in both central Florida near the Port of Tampa and in Louisiana on the Mississippi River, we are logistically positioned to supply both domestic and international customers as
well as transport rock, sulfur and ammonia easily. In addition, those multiple production points afford us the flexibility to optimally balance supply and demand.

We have a strong brand in several of the countries in which we have international distribution activities. In addition to having access to our own production, our international distribution activities
have the capability to supply all three types of crop nutrients to our dealer/farmer customer base. Our presence in Latin America and Asia allows us to capitalize on the growth in nutrient demand in these large and growing international regions.

We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations in Florida and Louisiana that are often more stringent than those to which
producers in other countries are subject.

Potash Segment

Potash is a commodity available from several geographical regions around the world and, consequently, the market is highly competitive. Through our participation in Canpotex, we compete outside of North
America with various independent potash producers and consortia as well as other export organizations, including state-owned organizations. We also ship product from our Carlsbad, New Mexico, potash facility to our South American distribution
centers. Our principal methods of competition with respect to the sale of potash include product pricing, and offering consistent, high-quality products and superior service. We believe that our potash cost structure is competitive in the industry
and should improve as we achieve the expected increases in production from our planned expansions.







FACTORS AFFECTING DEMAND

We sell products throughout the world. Unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting
trade; unexpected changes in tax and trade treaties; strengthening or weakening of foreign economies as well as political relations with the United States may cause sales trends to customers in one or more foreign countries to differ from sales
trends in the United States.

Our international operations are subject to risks from changes in foreign currencies, which can affect farmer
economics.

OTHER MATTERS

Employees

We had approximately 7,700 employees as of May 31, 2011, consisting
of approximately 3,200 salaried and 4,500 hourly employees.

Labor Relations

As of May 31, 2011:



•We had ten collective bargaining agreements with unions covering approximately 88% of our hourly employees in the U.S. and Canada. Of these employees,
approximately 55% are covered under collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire in fiscal 2012.



•Agreements with ten unions covered all employees in Brazil, representing 70% of our international employees. More than one agreement may govern our
relations with each of these unions. In general, the agreements are renewable on an annual basis.



•We also had collective bargaining agreements with unions covering employees in several other countries.

Failure to renew any of our union agreements could result in a strike or labor stoppage that could have a material adverse affect on our operations.
However, we have not experienced a significant work stoppage in many years and consider our labor relations to be good.







Financial Information about our Business Segments and Operations by Geographic Areas

We have included financial information about our business segments, our operations by geographic area and our revenues by class of
similar products in Note 24 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Information Available on our Website

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, filed with the SEC pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder are made available free of charge on our website, (www.mosaicco.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on our website is not being incorporated in this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding our executive officers as of July 19, 2011 is set forth below:



NameAgePositionAnthony T. Brausen52Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting OfficerGary “Bo” N. Davis59Vice President—Phosphates OperationsRichard L. Mack43Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryRichard N. McLellan54Senior Vice President—CommercialJames “Joc” C. O’Rourke50Executive Vice President—OperationsJames T. Prokopanko58Chief Executive Officer, President and DirectorCindy C. Redding52Vice President—Human ResourcesLawrence W. Stranghoener57Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Anthony T. Brausen. Mr. Brausen became Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting Officer of Mosaic in
April 2006. Prior to joining Mosaic as an employee in February 2006, Mr. Brausen had been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Tennant Company, a designer, manufacturer and marketer of floor maintenance and outdoor cleaning equipment,
chemical-free cleaning technologies, specialty surface coatings and related products, since March 2000. From 1989-2000, Mr. Brausen held several financial management positions, including Vice President and Treasurer, Assistant Controller
and Director of Investor Relations, with International Multifoods Corporation, a diversified publicly-traded food processor and distributor. From 1981-1989, Mr. Brausen held various positions with KPMG LLP.

Gary “Bo” N. Davis.Mr. Davis was elected Vice President—Phosphate Operations of Mosaic in June 2010. Previously,
Mr. Davis had served as Vice-President—Phosphate Operations for all of Mosaic’s Florida and Louisiana operations since 2007 and Vice President of Mining since Mosaic’s formation in 2004. Prior to the Combination, Mr. Davis
held several positions at Cargill, including Vice President, Operations for the fertilizer division from 1999 to 2004. Mr. Davis has worked in the crop nutrient industry for over 30 years.

Richard L. Mack.Effective January 1, 2009, Mr. Mack was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.
Mr. Mack served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Mosaic since its formation in 2004. Mr. Mack also provides executive oversight for Mosaic’s land development and permitting organizations. Prior to
the formation of Mosaic in 2004, Mr. Mack was a Senior Attorney in Cargill’s worldwide law department and a co-founder of Cargill’s venture capital business unit.







Richard N. McLellan.Mr. McLellan was elected as Senior Vice President—Commercial in April
2007. Previously, Mr. McLellan had served us as our Vice President—North American Sales since December 2005 and as Country Manager for our (and, prior to the Combination, Cargill’s) Brazilian crop nutrient business since November,
2002. Mr. McLellan joined Cargill in 1989 and held various roles in its Canadian and U.S. operations, including grain, retail and wholesale crop nutrient distribution.

James “Joc” C. O’Rourke.Mr. O’Rourke became Executive Vice President—Operations of Mosaic in January 2009. Prior to joining Mosaic, Mr. O’Rourke was
President, Australia Pacific for Barrick Gold Corporation, the largest gold producer in Australia, since May 2006, where he was responsible for the Australia Pacific Business Unit consisting of ten gold and copper mines in Australia and Papua New
Guinea. Before that, Mr. O’Rourke was Executive General Manager Australia and Managing Director of Placer Dome Asia Pacific Ltd., the second largest gold producer in Australia, from December 2004, where he was responsible for the Australia
Business Unit consisting of five gold and copper mines; and General Manager Western Australia Operations for Iluka Resources Ltd., the world’s largest zircon and second largest titanium producer, from September 2003, where he was responsible
for six mining and concentrating operations and two mineral separation/synthetic rutile refineries. Mr. O’Rourke had previously held various management, engineering and other roles in the mining industry in Canada and Australia since 1984.

James T. Prokopanko.Mr. Prokopanko became our President and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2007. Until joining us as
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer on July 31, 2006, Mr. Prokopanko was a Corporate Vice President of Cargill since 2004. He was Cargill’s Corporate Vice President with executive responsibility for procurement from
2002 to 2006 and a platform leader responsible for Cargill’s Ag Producer Services Platform from 1999 to July 2006. After joining Cargill in 1978, Mr. Prokopanko served in a wide range of leadership positions, including being named Vice
President of North American crop inputs business in 1995. During his Cargill career, Mr. Prokopanko was engaged in retail agriculture businesses in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Argentina and the United Kingdom. Mr. Prokopanko
resigned from all of his current positions with Cargill and its subsidiaries (other than Mosaic) in connection with his election as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Mosaic. Mr. Prokopanko has served as a director of
Mosaic since October 2004 and served as a member of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the Environmental, Health and Safety Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors since his election to the Board through July 31,
2006.

Cindy C. Redding.Ms. Redding was elected as Vice President-Human Resources effective July 30, 2007. Ms. Redding
was previously Vice President-Human Resources of MDU Resources Group, Inc., a provider of value-added natural resource products and related services for energy and transportation infrastructure, since July 2003, and its Director of Human Resources
from December 2002 to July 2003. Before that, Ms. Redding served from July 1998 until December 2002 in the positions of Director, Human Resources, Molded Plastics Division, as Corporate Benefits Planning & Delivery Manager, and as
Manager, Strategic Staffing Services, for Sonoco Products Company, a global packaging company. Prior to that, Ms. Redding worked for Abbott Laboratories, a global health care company, as Manager, Human Resources, Abbott International Division,
from 1997 to 1998. From 1980 to 1997, Ms. Redding worked in various business administration and human resource roles, domestic and international, for Amoco Corporation, a world-wide integrated energy company.

Lawrence W. Stranghoener.Mr. Stranghoener joined us as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in October 2004. He previously
served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Thrivent Financial for Lutherans and its predecessor organization from January 1, 2001 until October 2004, where he had responsibility over the organization’s investments,
finance and related functions. Prior to that, from 1983 through December 1999, Mr. Stranghoener worked in various senior management positions with Honeywell, Inc. in the United States and Europe, including Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer, Vice President of Business Development, Vice President of Finance, Director of Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis and Director of Investor Relations. In December 1999, following the Honeywell-AlliedSignal merger,
Mr. Stranghoener joined Techies.com of Edina, Minnesota, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.







Our executive officers are generally elected to serve until their respective successors are elected and
qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. No “family relationships,” as that term is defined in Item 401(d) of Regulation S-K, exist among any of the listed officers.

