Item 1. Business.



OVERVIEW

The Mosaic Company is the world’s leading producer and marketer of concentrated phosphate and potash crop nutrients. We are the largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and one of the largest producers and marketers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in the United States. We are one of the four largest potash producers in the world. Through our broad product offering, we are a single source supplier of phosphate- and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients. We serve customers in approximately 40 countries. We mine phosphate rock in Florida and process rock into finished phosphate products at facilities in Florida and Louisiana. We mine potash in Saskatchewan and New Mexico. We have other production, blending or distribution operations in Brazil, China, India and Paraguay, as well as strategic equity investments in a phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region in Peru and a joint venture formed to develop a phosphate rock mine and chemical complexes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our distribution operations serve the top four nutrient-consuming countries in the world.

The Mosaic Company is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in March 2004 and serves as the parent company of the business that was formed through the October 2004 combination of IMC Global Inc. and the fertilizer businesses of Cargill, Incorporated. We are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “MOS” and are headquartered in Plymouth, Minnesota.

We conduct our business through wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries as well as businesses in which we own less than a majority or a non-controlling interest. We are organized into two reportable business segments: Phosphates and Potash. The following charts show the respective contributions to2014sales volumes, net sales and operating earnings for each of these business segments:





Phosphates Segment— We are the largest integrated phosphate producer in the world and one of the largest producers and marketers of phosphate-based animal feed ingredients in the United States. We sell phosphate-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients throughout North America and internationally. Our Phosphates segment also includes our international distribution activities. Our distribution activities include sales offices, port terminals and warehouses in the United States, Canada, and several other key international countries. In addition, the international distribution activities include blending, bagging or production facilities in Brazil, China, India and Paraguay. We account for approximately 14% of estimated global annual production and 71% of estimated North American annual production of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients.

Potash Segment —We are one of the four largest potash producers in the world. We sell potash throughout North America and internationally, principally as fertilizer, but also for use in industrial applications and, to a lesser degree, as animal feed ingredients. We account for approximately 14% of estimated global annual potash production and 44% of estimated North American annual potash production.









As used in this report:

•“Mosaic” means The Mosaic Company, both before and after the Merger;

•“GNS” means the company known as GNS II (U.S.) Corp. until it was renamed The Mosaic Company in connection with the Merger;

•“MOS Holdings” means the company known as The Mosaic Company until it was renamed MOS Holdings Inc. in connection with the Merger;

•“we”, “us”, and “our” refer to Mosaic and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination;

•“IMC” means IMC Global Inc.;

•“Cargill” means Cargill, Incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, individually or in any combination;

•“Cargill Crop Nutrition” means the crop nutrient business we acquired from Cargill in the Combination;

•“Combination” means the October 22, 2004 combination of IMC and Cargill Crop Nutrition;

•“Cargill Transaction” means the transactions described below under “Cargill Transaction and Share Repurchases” other than repurchases of shares of our Common Stock under the Repurchase Program;

•“MAC Trusts” means the Margaret A. Cargill foundation established under the Acorn Trust dated January 30, 1995, as amended, and the Anne Ray Charitable Trust dated August 20, 1996, as amended;

•“Merger” means a Merger that occurred on May 25, 2011 as part of the transaction described below under “Cargill Transaction.” The Merger was between a subsidiary of GNS and MOS Holdings and had the effect of recapitalizing our Common Stock and making GNS the parent company of MOS Holdings. Prior to the Merger, GNS was a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company then known as The Mosaic Company. In the Merger, all of the outstanding stock of MOS Holdings was converted, on a one-for-one basis, into GNS stock. In connection with the Merger, the company formerly known as The Mosaic Company was renamed MOS Holdings Inc. and GNS was renamed The Mosaic Company. Following the Merger, our common stock continues to trade under the ticker symbol MOS;

•“Stub Period” refers to the seven-month transition period ended December 31, 2013;

•“tonne” or “tonnes” means a metric tonne or tonnes of 2,205 pounds each unless we specifically state that we mean short or long tons;

•references in this report to a particular fiscal year are to the twelve months ended May 31 of that year; and

•statements as to our industry position reflect information from the most recent period available.

Cargill Transaction and Share Repurchases

Cargill Transaction

In May 2011, Cargill divested its interest in us in a split-off (the “Split-off”) to its stockholders (the “Exchanging Cargill Stockholders”), including the MAC Trusts, and a debt exchange (the “Debt Exchange”) with certain Cargill debt holders (the “Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders”). The agreements relating to the Cargill Transaction contemplated an orderly distribution of the approximately 64% (285.8 million) of our shares that Cargill formerly held. Following the Split-off and Debt Exchange, the MAC Trusts and Exchanging Cargill Debt Holders sold an aggregate of 157.0 million of these shares in underwritten public secondary offerings or to us. These transactions completed the disposition of shares designated to be sold during the 15-month period following the Split-off.

All other shares (approximately 128.8 million shares in the aggregate) of our Class A Common Stock (“Class A Shares”) received by the Exchanging Cargill Stockholders in the Split-off have generally been subject to transfer restrictions unless we consent. These transfer restrictions are removed as the Class A Shares convert to regular Common Stock. The first such conversion, under which all 42.9 million outstanding Class A Shares, Series A-1 (including 21,647,007 shares held by the MAC Trusts), were converted into regular Mosaic Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (“Common Stock”), occurred on November 26, 2013.  On November 26, 2014, the remaining 17,176,068 Class A Shares, Series A-2, held by Exchanging Cargill Stockholders, were converted into Common Stock.  Conversion of the remaining 17,176,046 Class A Shares, Series A-3, held by Exchanging Cargill Stockholders, is scheduled to occur on November 26, 2015.

The agreements relating to the Cargill Transaction continued to restrict our ability to engage in share buybacks until November 26, 2013, when the last of such restrictions expired.

On December 6, 2013, Mosaic entered into a share repurchase agreement with the MAC Trusts (the “MAC Trusts Share Repurchase Agreement”) to purchase all of the remaining Class A Shares held by the MAC Trusts through a series of eight purchases occurring from January 8, 2014 through July 30, 2014. During 2014, pursuant to the MAC Trusts Share Repurchase Agreement, all 21,647,007 Class A Shares, Series A-3, held by the MAC Trusts, and 21,647,008 Class A Shares, Series A-2, were repurchased for an aggregate of approximately $2.0 billion.

Under the MAC Trusts Share Repurchase Agreement, the purchase price per share was equal to the Common Market Price, as defined in Mosaic’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as of the date of the purchase. In general and subject to the terms and









provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Common Market Price as of any date is equal to the average of the volume weighted average trading price of Common Stock, for each trading day during the preceding 20-day trading period.

Other Share Repurchases

In February of 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”), allowing the Company to repurchase Class A Shares or shares of our Common Stock , through direct buybacks or in open market transactions. This authorization is in addition to the MAC Trusts Share Repurchase Agreement described above. During 2014, under the Repurchase Program, 8,193,698 Class A Shares were repurchased under agreements we entered into with certain Cargill family member trusts (the “Family Trusts Share Repurchase Agreements”, and together with the MAC Trusts Share Repurchase Agreement, the "Share Repurchase Agreements") and 7,585,085 shares of Common Stock were repurchased on the open market for an aggregate of $727.3 million.

The Share Repurchase Agreements were accounted for as forward contracts with an initial liability established at fair value based on the average of the weighted average trading price for each of the preceding 20-day trading days and a corresponding reduction of equity. The contracts were subsequently remeasured at the present value of the amount to be paid at settlement with the difference being recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings. In calculating basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS"), we were required to exclude the Class A shares that remained to be repurchased. Any amounts, including contractual (accumulated) dividends and participation rights in undistributed earnings, attributable to shares that remained to be repurchased that had not yet been recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings were deducted in computing income available to common shareholders, consistent with the two-class method. See the calculation of EPS in Note7of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

We have included additional information about the Cargill Transaction and other share repurchases in Note2of our Consolidated Financial Statements and in response to Item 13 of Part III of this report, which information is incorporated herein by reference, and the principal transaction documents related to the Cargill Transaction are incorporated by reference as exhibits to this report.

Other Business Developments during2014

During calendar year2014, we took the following steps toward achieving our strategic priorities:

•Growth: Grow our production of essential crop nutrients and operate with increasing efficiency

•On March 17, 2014, we completed the acquisition of the Florida phosphate assets and assumption of certain related liabilities (the “CF Phosphate Assets Acquisition”) of CF industries, Inc. ("CF") for $1,172.1 million plus an additional $203.7 million (all in cash) to fund CF's asset retirement obligation trust and escrow. This acquisition provides opportunities for enhanced operating efficiencies, lower production costs and reduced capital investment.  We also signed two strategic supply agreements with CF under which CF will provide us with ammonia for our production purposes.  This transaction is further described in Note23of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

•On June 30, 2014, the Wa'ad Al Shamal Phosphate Company (the “Wa’ad Al Shamal Joint Venture”), our joint venture with Saudi Arabian Mining Company (“Ma’aden”) and Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”) to develop, own and operate integrated phosphate production facilities in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, entered into funding facilities with a consortium of 20 financial institutions for approximately $5.0 billion. We estimate the cost to develop and construct the integrated phosphate production facilities will approximate $7.5 billion, which we expect to be funded through external funding facilities, including the ones mentioned above, and investment by the joint venture members.

•The expansion in our Colonsay mine was completed and added an additional 0.6 million tonnes of operational capacity.

•We continued the expansion of capacity in our Potash segment, with the K3 shafts at our Esterhazy mine, which are on track to start producing ore in 2017 and are expected to add an estimated 0.9 million tonnes to our potash operational capacity.  In December 2014, our Board approved approximately $1.5 billion in capital expenditures over the next ten years to increase the mining capacity of the K3 shafts and provide for an infrastructure to move rock from K3 to the K1 and K2 mills. This would provide us the flexibility to optimize production at K1, K2 and K3 in order to mitigate risk from current and future brine inflows.

•Market Access: Expand our reach and impact by continuously strengthening our distribution network

•On December 17, 2014, we completed the acquisition of Archer Daniels Midland Company's ("ADM") fertilizer distribution business and working capital in Brazil and Paraguay for approximately $350 million.  This acquisition is expected to significantly accelerate our previously announced growth plans in Brazil as well as









replace a substantial amount of planned internal investments in that country. We acquired four blending and warehousing facilities in Brazil, one in Paraguay and additional warehousing and logistics service capabilities.  We expect this acquisition to increase our annual distribution in the region from approximately four million metric tonnes to about six million metric tonnes of crop nutrients.

•Innovation: Build on our industry-leading product, process and sustainability innovations

•We announced plans to further expand MicroEssentials®capacity, adding an incremental 1.2 million tonnes, and bringing total capacity to 3.5 million tonnes by 2017. Sales volumes of MicroEssentials®products in North America increased approximately 14% in the year ended December 31, 2014 from 2013, contributing to a new Mosaic record for sales of MicroEssentials®.

•Total Shareholder return: Deliver strong financial performance and provide meaningful returns to our shareholders

•Our Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion Repurchase Program, allowing the Company to repurchase Class A Shares or Common Stock, through negotiated direct transactions or in the open market. During 2014, under the Repurchase Program, Mosaic has repurchased 8.2 million Class A Shares under agreements we entered with certain Cargill family member trusts and 7.6 million shares of Common Stock were repurchased for an aggregate of $727.3 million.

•On July 23, 2014, we announced our decision to permanently discontinue production of muriate of potash ("MOP") at our Carlsbad, New Mexico facility and transition the facility to exclusive production of our highly valued K-Mag®product line.  The decision was based on the quality of the ore in the Carlsbad basin and the age of the facility's infrastructure. The final date for production of MOP was December 28, 2014.

•On July 29, 2014, we completed the sale of our salt operations at our Hersey, Michigan mine for approximately $55 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $13.5 million.  We also closed our low producing potash operations at Hersey allowing us to focus on our higher producing potash mines.

•On November 18, 2014, we completed the sale of our Argentina assets, which resulted in a gain of approximately $8.5 million during 2014, allowing us to focus on our more profitable distribution operations.

We have included additional information about these and other developments in our business during 2014 in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“Management’s Analysis”) and in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.



BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

The discussion below of our business segment operations should be read in conjunction with the following information that we have included in this report:

•The risk factors discussed in this report in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

•Our Management’s Analysis.

•The financial statements and supplementary financial information in our Consolidated Financial Statements (“Consolidated Financial Statements”). This information is incorporated by reference in this report in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



Phosphates Segment

Our Phosphates business segment owns and operates mines and production facilities in Florida which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and phosphate-based animal feed ingredients, and processing plants in Louisiana which produce concentrated phosphate crop nutrients. Our Phosphates segment’s results also include our international distribution activities.

On March 17, 2014, Mosaic completed the CF Phosphate Assets Acquisition, which included the 25,000-acre South Pasture phosphate mine and beneficiation plant in Hardee County, Florida, a phosphate manufacturing facility in Plant City, Florida, and ammonia terminal and finished product warehouse facilities in Tampa.

On December 17, 2014, we completed the acquisition of ADM's fertilizer distribution business and working capital in Brazil and Paraguay, as discussed above.

U.S. Phosphate Crop Nutrients and Animal Feed Ingredients

Our U.S. phosphates operations have capacity to produce approximately5.2 milliontonnes of phosphoric acid (“P2O5”) per year, or about 9% of world annual capacity and about 56% of North American annual capacity. Phosphoric acid is produced by reacting finely ground phosphate rock with sulfuric acid. Phosphoric acid is the key building block for the production of high









analysis or concentrated phosphate crop nutrients and animal feed products, and is the most comprehensive measure of phosphate capacity and production and a commonly used benchmark in our industry. Our U.S. phosphoric acid production totaled approximately4.4 milliontonnes during2014. We account for approximately 11% of estimated global annual production and 54% of estimated North American annual output.

Our phosphate crop nutrient products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors, retailers and farmers. Our principal phosphate crop nutrient products are:

•Diammonium Phosphate (18-46-0)Diammonium Phosphate (“DAP”) is the most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient worldwide. DAP is produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia in a reaction vessel. This initial reaction creates a slurry that is then pumped into a granulation plant where it is reacted with additional ammonia to produce DAP. DAP is a solid granular product that is applied directly or blended with other solid plant nutrient products such as urea and potash.

•Monoammonium Phosphate (11-52-0)Monoammonium Phosphate (“MAP”) is the second most widely used high-analysis phosphate crop nutrient and the fastest growing phosphate product worldwide. MAP is also produced by first combining phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia in a reaction vessel. The resulting slurry is then pumped into the granulation plant where it is reacted with additional phosphoric acid to produce MAP. MAP is a solid granular product that is applied directly or blended with other solid plant nutrient products.

•MicroEssentials®is a value-added ammoniated phosphate product that is enhanced through a patented process that creates very thin platelets of sulfur and other micronutrients, such as zinc, on the granulated product. The patented process incorporates both the sulfate and elemental forms of sulfur, providing season long availability to crops.

Production of our animal feed ingredients products is located at our New Wales, Florida facility. We market our feed phosphate primarily under the leading brand names of Biofos®and Nexfos®.

Our primary phosphate crop nutrient production facilities are located in central Florida and Louisiana. The following map shows the locations of each of our phosphate concentrates plants in the United States and the locations of each of our active and planned phosphate mines in Florida:















Annual capacity by plant as ofDecember 31, 2014and production volumes by plant for2014are listed below:

(tonnes in millions)Phosphoric AcidProcessed  Phosphate(a)/DAP/MAP/MicroEssentials®/Feed PhosphateOperational Capacity(b)Operational Capacity(b)FacilityProductionProductionFlorida:Bartow0.91.02.22.1New Wales1.71.54.13.2Riverview0.90.71.81.4Plant City(c)0.90.62.01.34.43.810.18.0Louisiana:Faustina——1.61.3Uncle Sam0.80.6——0.80.61.61.3Total5.24.411.79.3

______________________________

(a)Our ability to produce processed phosphates has been less than our annual operational capacity stated in the table above, except to the extent we purchase phosphoric acid.

(b)Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products, maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

(c)Production at the Plant City facility reflects operations from March of 2014, when the facility was acquired. Operational capacity represents full-year capacity.

The phosphoric acid produced at Uncle Sam is shipped to Faustina, where it is used to produce DAP, MAP and MicroEssentials®. Our Faustina plant also manufactures ammonia that is mostly consumed in our concentrate plants.

We produced approximately 8.7 million tonnes of concentrated phosphate crop nutrients during2014and accounted for approximately 14% of estimated world annual output and 71% of estimated North American annual production.

Phosphate Rock

Phosphate rock is the key mineral used to produce phosphate crop nutrients and feed phosphate. Our phosphate rock production totaled approximately14.0 milliontonnes in2014and accounted for approximately 7% of estimated world annual production and 53% of estimated North American annual production. We are the world’s second largest miner of phosphate rock and currently operate four mines with a combined annual capacity of approximately17.2 milliontonnes. Production of one tonne of DAP requires between 1.6 and 1.7 tonnes of phosphate rock.

All of our wholly owned phosphate mines and related mining operations are located in central Florida. During2014, we operated five active mines: Four Corners, South Fort Meade, Hookers Prairie, Wingate and South Pasture, which was acquired in March of 2014. The Hookers Prairie mine's reserves were exhausted in June of 2014. We plan to develop reserves at Ona and at DeSoto to replace reserves that will be depleted at various times during the next decade.

The phosphate deposits of Florida are of sedimentary origin and are part of a phosphate-bearing province that extends from southern Florida north along the Atlantic coast into southern Virginia. Our active phosphate mines are primarily located in what is known as the Bone Valley Member of the Peace River Formation in the Central Florida Phosphate District. The southern portions of the Four Corners and Wingate mines are in what is referred to as the Undifferentiated Peace River Formation, in which our future Ona and DeSoto reserves are also located. Phosphate mining has been conducted in the Central Florida Phosphate District since the late 1800’s. The potentially mineable portion of the district encompasses an area approximately 80 miles in length in a north-south direction and approximately 40 miles in width.

We extract phosphate ore using large surface mining machines that we own called “draglines.” Prior to extracting the ore, the draglines must first remove a 10 to 50 foot layer of sandy overburden. At our Wingate mine, we also utilize dredges to remove the overburden and mine the ore. We then process the ore at beneficiation plants that we own at each active mine where the ore









goes through washing, screening, sizing and flotation processes designed to separate the phosphate rock from sands, clays and other foreign materials.Prior to commencing operations at any of our planned future mines, we would need to acquire new draglines or move existing draglines to the mines and, unless the beneficiation plant at an existing mine were used, construct a beneficiation plant.

The following table shows, for each of our phosphate mines, annual capacity as ofDecember 31, 2014and rock production volume and grade for calendar years2014and2013, the Stub Period and fiscal 2013:



(tonnes inmillions)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)Calendar 2014Calendar 2013Stub PeriodFiscal2013FacilityProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)ProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)ProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)ProductionAverageBPL(b)%P2O5(c)Four Corners7.05.463.829.26.064.029.33.663.529.16.464.529.5South Fort Meade5.54.161.628.25.064.429.52.564.029.35.564.229.4Hookers Prairie(d)—0.864.829.81.965.229.81.064.129.32.065.630.0South Pasture(e)3.22.660.927.9—————————Wingate1.51.163.829.21.362.128.40.862.728.71.561.828.3Total17.214.062.728.714.264.129.37.963.729.115.464.429.5

______________________________

(a)Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products, the quality of the reserves, the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, maintenance and turnaround time, accidents, mechanical failure, weather conditions, and other operating conditions, as well as the effect of recent initiatives intended to improve operational excellence.

(b)Bone Phosphate of Lime (“BPL”) is a traditional reference to the amount (by weight percentage) of calcium phosphate contained in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher BPL corresponds to a higher percentage of calcium phosphate.

(c)The percent of P2O5in the above table represents a measure of the phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body. A higher percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of phosphate content in phosphate rock or a phosphate ore body.

(d)The Hookers Prairie mine’s reserves were exhausted during 2014.

(e)Production at the South Pasture mine reflects rock mined from March of 2014, when the mine was acquired. Annual operational capacity represents full-year capacity.

Reserves

We estimate our phosphate rock reserves based upon exploration core drilling as well as technical and economic analyses to determine that reserves can be economically mined. Proven (measured) reserves are those resources of sufficient concentration to meet minimum physical, chemical and economic criteria related to our current product standards and mining and production practices. Our estimates of probable (indicated) reserves are based on information similar to that used for proven reserves, but sites for drilling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced than for proven reserves, although the degree of assurance is high enough to assume continuity between such sites. Proven reserves are determined using a minimum drill hole spacing of two sites per 40 acre block. Probable reserves have less than two drill holes per 40 acre block, but geological data provides a high degree of assurance that continuity exists between sites.









The following table sets forth our proven and probable phosphate reserves as ofDecember 31, 2014:

(tonnes in millions)Reserve Tonnes(a)(b)(c)AverageBPL(d)%P2O5Active MinesFour Corners40.963.028.8South Fort Meade29.964.029.3South Pasture77.865.029.8Wingate31.262.528.6Total Active Mines179.863.929.3Planned MiningOna258.864.429.5DeSoto149.6(e)64.629.5Total Planned Mining408.464.529.5Total Mining588.264.329.4

______________________________

(a)Reserves are in areas that are fully accessible for mining; free of surface or subsurface encumbrance, legal setbacks, wetland preserves and other legal restrictions that preclude permittable access for mining; believed by us to be permittable; and meet specified minimum physical, economic and chemical criteria related to current mining and production practices.

(b)Reserve estimates are generally established by our personnel without a third party review. There has been no third party review of reserve estimates within the last five years. The reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

(c)Of the reserves shown,556.0 milliontonnes are proven reserves, while probable reserves totaled32.2 milliontonnes.

(d)Average product BPL ranges from approximately 63% to 65%.

(e)In connection with the purchase in 1996 of approximately 108.9 million tonnes of the reported DeSoto reserves, we agreed to (i) pay royalties of between $0.50 and $0.90 per ton of rock mined based on future levels of DAP margins, and (ii) pay to the seller lost income from the loss of surface use to the extent we use the property for mining related purposes before January 1, 2020.

We generally own the reserves shown for active mines in the table above, with the only significant exceptions being further described below:

•We own the above-ground assets of the South Fort Meade mine, including the beneficiation plant, rail track and the initial clay settling areas. A limited partnership, South Ft. Meade Partnership, L.P. (“SFMP”), owns the majority of the mineable acres shown in the table for the South Fort Meade mine.

•We currently have a 95% economic interest in the profits and losses of SFMP. SFMP is included as a consolidated subsidiary in our financial statements.

•We have a long-term mineral lease with SFMP. This lease expires on the earlier of December 31, 2025 or on the date that we have completed mining and reclamation obligations associated with the leased property. Lease provisions include royalty payments and a commitment to give mining priority to the South Fort Meade phosphate reserves. We pay the partnership a royalty on each BPL short ton mined and shipped from the areas that we lease from it. Royalty payments to SFMP normally average approximately $9 million annually.

•Through its arrangements with us, SFMP also earns income from mineral lease payments, agricultural lease payments and interest income, and uses those proceeds primarily to pay dividends to its equity owners.

•The surface rights to approximately 882 acres for the South Fort Meade Mine are owned by SFMP, while the U.S. government owns the mineral rights beneath. We control the rights to mine these reserves under a mining lease agreement and pay royalties on the tonnage extracted. Under the lease, we did not mine any lands subject to federal leases during 2014.

In light of the long-term nature of our rights to our reserves, we expect to be able to mine all reported reserves that are not currently owned prior to termination or expiration of our rights. Additional information regarding permitting is included in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, and under “Environmental, Health, Safety and Security Matters—Operating Requirements and Impacts—Permitting” in our Management’s Analysis.









Investments in Joint Ventures

We have a 35% economic interest in a joint venture which owns the Miski Mayo phosphate rock mine in the Bayovar region of Peru. Our investment in the Miski Mayo Mine and related commercial offtake supply agreement to purchase a share of the phosphate rock from the Miski Mayo Mine reduces our need to purchase phosphate rock from other suppliers. The Miski Mayo Mine’s annual production capacity is 3.8 million tonnes.

We own a 25% interest in the Wa’ad Al Shamal Joint Venture and in connection with our equity share, we will market approximately 25% of the production of the joint venture. The Wa’ad Al Shamal Joint Venture is developing a mine and two chemical complexes that are presently expected to produce phosphate fertilizers, animal feed, food grade purified phosphoric acid and other downstream phosphates products in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.  We currently estimate that the cost to develop and construct the integrated phosphate production facilities (the "

Project

") will approximate $7.5 billion, which we expect to be funded primarily through investments by us, Ma'aden and SABIC, and through borrowing arrangements and other external project financing facilities ("

Funding Facilities

"). We currently estimate that our cash investment in the Project, including the amount we have invested to date will approximate $850 million. Our cash investment in the Project through December 31, 2014 was $328.5 million. The greenfield project is being built in the northern region of Saudi Arabia at Wa’ad Al Shamal Minerals Industrial City, and include further expansion of processing plants in Ras Al Khair Minerals Industrial City which is located on the east coast of Saudi Arabia. The facilities are expected to have a production capacity of approximately 3.5 million tonnes of finished product per year. The project is expected to benefit from the availability of key raw nutrients from sources within Saudi Arabia. Operations are expected to commence in late 2016.

On June 30, 2014, the Wa’ad Al Shamal Joint Venture entered into Funding Facilities with a consortium of 20 financial institutions for a total amount of approximately $5.0 billion. The terms of the Funding Facilities are further discussed in Note9of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Purchased Phosphate Rock

We also purchase phosphate rock. The level of our purchases of phosphate rock in the future will depend upon, among other factors, our phosphate rock mining plans, the status of our permits, our need for additional phosphate rock to allow us to operate our concentrates plants at or near full capacity, the quality and level of impurities in the phosphate rock that we mine, and our development or acquisition of additional phosphate rock deposits and mines. Depending on product mix and tonnage requirements, our need for purchased phosphate rock could increase in the future in order to meet product specifications.

Sulfur

We use molten sulfur at our phosphates concentrates plants to produce sulfuric acid primarily for use in our production of phosphoric acid. We purchased approximately 4.0 million long tons of sulfur during2014, which includes 9 months of purchases related to production at the Plant City facility acquired from CF. We purchase most of this sulfur from North American oil and natural gas refiners who are required to remove or recover sulfur during the refining process. Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately 0.40 long tons of sulfur. We procure our sulfur from multiple sources and receive it by truck, rail, barge and vessel, either direct to our phosphate plants or have it sent for gathering to terminals that are located on the US gulf coast.

We own and operate sulfur terminals in Houston, Texas and Riverview, Florida. We also lease terminal space in Tampa, Florida and Galveston and Beaumont, Texas. We own two ocean-going barges and contract for operation of another ocean-going vessel that transport molten sulfur from the Texas terminals to Tampa and then onward by truck to our Florida phosphate plants. In addition, we own a 50% equity interest in Gulf Sulphur Services Ltd., LLLP (“Gulf Sulphur Services”), which is operated by our joint venture partner. Gulf Sulphur Services has a large sulfur transportation and terminaling business in the Gulf of Mexico, and handles these functions for a substantial portion of our Florida sulfur volume. Gulf Sulphur Services’ capabilities include melting solid sulfur into the molten form that we use, which permits us to access sources of solid as well as molten sulfur. We further round out our sulfur logistic assets with a large fleet of leased railcars that supplement our marine sulfur logistic system. Our Louisiana operations are served by truck and barge from nearby refineries.  Additionally, to further enhance our access to sulfur, a project to construct a sulfur melter at our New Wales facility is scheduled to be completed in late 2015.  It is planned to have the capability to melt approximately one million long tons of sulfur annually, allowing us to leverage economic benefits within the global sulfur marketplace.

Although sulfur is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphate facilities by a variety of means, sulfur is an important raw material used in our business that has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing and availability. Alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to current transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes









in the price of sulfur or disruptions to sulfur transportation or terminaling facilities could have a material impact on our business. We have included a discussion of sulfur prices in our Management’s Analysis.

Ammonia

We use ammonia together with phosphoric acid to produce DAP, MAP and MicroEssentials®. We consumed approximately 1.5 million tonnes of ammonia during2014. This includes approximately 9 months of ammonia consumption at the Plant City facility we acquired as part of the CF Phosphate Assets Acquisition. Production of one tonne of DAP requires approximately 0.23 tonnes of ammonia.

Our Florida ammonia needs are supplied by offshore producers, under multi-year contracts. Ammonia for our New Wales and Riverview plants is terminaled through an owned ammonia facility at Port Sutton, Florida. Ammonia for our Bartow plant is terminaled through another ammonia facility owned and operated by a third party at Port Sutton, Florida pursuant to an agreement that expires in 2015. Ammonia is transported by pipeline from the terminals to our production facilities. We have service agreements with the operators of the pipelines for Bartow, New Wales, and Riverview, which provide service through June 30, 2017; the service agreements may be extended in one year increments unless either party objects. Ammonia for our Plant City facility is terminaled through a facility that was acquired as part of the CF Phosphate Assets Acquisition. This ammonia is transported by rail via leased railcars. The leases for rail cars expire in 2017, 2018 and 2019.  Our rail service contract expired on December 31, 2014 and is currently being renegotiated. We are operating under the terms of that agreement.

We produce ammonia at Faustina, Louisiana primarily for our own consumption. Our annual capacity is approximately 500,000 tonnes.  From time to time we sell surplus ammonia to unrelated parties.

On October 28, 2013, at the same time we signed the agreement relating to the CF Phosphate Assets Acquisition, we entered into a strategic supply agreement with CF for approximately 545,000 to 725,000 tonnes of ammonia annually (the "CF Ammonia Supply Agreement") for a term of up to fifteen years. We expect that this agreement will commence prior to January 1, 2017. Under a second agreement, we will purchase from CF approximately 270,000 tonnes annually for three years at CFR Tampa market based pricing. In light of these supply arrangements, we decided to forego our proposed ammonia manufacturing plant at our Faustina, Louisiana facility, but we are reviewing debottlenecking our current Faustina ammonia facility.

Although ammonia is readily available from many different suppliers and can be transported to our phosphates facilities by a variety of means, ammonia is an important raw material used in our business that has in the past been and may in the future be the subject of volatile pricing, and alternative transportation and terminaling facilities might not have sufficient capacity to fully serve all of our facilities in the event of a disruption to existing transportation or terminaling facilities. Changes in the price of ammonia or disruptions to ammonia transportation or terminaling could have a material impact on our business. We have included a discussion of ammonia prices in our Management’s Analysis.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is the primary raw material used to manufacture ammonia. At our Faustina facility, ammonia is manufactured on site. The majority of natural gas is purchased through firm delivery contracts based on published index-based prices and is sourced from Texas and Louisiana via pipelines interconnected to the Henry Hub. We use over-the-counter swap and/or option contracts to forward price portions of future gas purchases. The portions of gas purchases not forward priced are purchased at the index based prices or at domestic spot market prices under short-term contracts. On average, we purchase approximately 18 million MMbtu of natural gas per year for use in ammonia production at Faustina.

Because our ammonia requirements for our Florida operations are purchased rather than manufactured on site, we purchase on average approximately two million MMbtu of natural gas per year in Florida only as a thermal fuel for various production processes.

Florida Land Holdings

We are a significant landowner in the State of Florida, which in the future is expected to return to its historical status as one of the fastest areas of population growth in the United States. We own land comprising approximately 287,000 acres held in fee simple title in central Florida, and have the right to mine additional properties which contain phosphate rock reserves. Some of our land holdings are needed to operate our Phosphates business, while a portion of our land assets, such as reclaimed properties, are no longer required for our ongoing operations. As a general matter, more of our reclaimed property becomes available for uses other than for phosphate operations each year. Our real property assets are generally comprised of concentrates plants, port facilities, phosphate mines and other property which we have acquired through our presence in Florida. We are currently taking initial steps as part of a long-term future land use strategy to optimize the value of our land









assets. For example, we developed Streamsong®, a destination resort and conference center, in an area of previously mined land as part of our long-term business strategy to maximize the value and utility of our extensive land holdings in Florida. In addition to the two golf courses and clubhouse that were opened in December 2012, the resort and conference center opened in January 2014.



International Production

We have an approximate 62% interest in a joint venture in Paranagua, Brazil, which includes a plant that produces up to 500,000tonnesper year of single superphosphate (“SSP”) and granulated SSP crop nutrients by mixing sulfuric acid with purchased phosphate rock.



Potash Segment

We are one of the leading potash producers in the world. We mine and process potash in Canada and the United States and sell potash in North America and internationally. The term “potash” applies generally to the common salts of potassium. Muriate of potash (“MOP”) is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry. Red MOP has traces of iron oxide. The granular and standard grade Red MOP products are well suited for direct fertilizer application and bulk blending. White MOP has a higher percent potassium oxide (“K2O”). White MOP, besides being well suited for the agricultural market, is used in many industrial applications.

Our potash products are marketed worldwide to crop nutrient manufacturers, distributors and retailers and are also used in the manufacture of mixed crop nutrients and, to a lesser extent, in animal feed ingredients. We also sell potash to customers for industrial use. In addition, our potash products are used for de-icing and as a water softener regenerant.

In2014, we operated three potash mines in Canada, including two shaft mines with a total of three production shafts and one solution mine, as well as two potash mines in the United States, including one shaft mine and one solution mine. We sold the salt operations at our former Hersey, Michigan mine and closed the related potash operations. The sale of the salt operations was completed on July 29, 2014.

We also own related refineries at each of the mines.

The expansion in our Colonsay mine was completed and added an additional 0.6 million tonnes of operational capacity. We continue the expansion of capacity in our Potash segment, with the K3 shafts at our Esterhazy mine which are on track to start producing ore in 2017 and will add an estimated 0.9 million tonnes to our potash operational capacity.  In December 2014, our Board approved approximately $1.5 billion in capital expenditures over the next ten years to increase the mining capacity of the K3 shafts and provide for an infrastructure to move rock from K3 to the K1 and K2 mills. This would provide us the flexibility to optimize production at K1, K2 and K3 in order to mitigate risk from current and future brine inflows.

It is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at Esterhazy may further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mines. See “Key Factors that can Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and “Potash Net Sales and Gross Margin” in our Management’s Analysis and “Our Esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 25 years” in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this report, which are incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows.









The map below shows the location of each of our potash mines.





Our current potash annualized operational capacity totals10.5 milliontonnes of product per year and accounts for approximately 13% of world annual capacity and 47% of North American annual capacity. Production during2014totaled8.2 milliontonnes. We account for approximately 14% of estimated world annual production and 44% of estimated North American annual production.









The following table shows, for each of our potash mines, annual capacity as ofDecember 31, 2014and volume of mined ore, average grade and finished product output for calendar years 2014 and 2013, the Stub Period and fiscal 2013:

(tonnes in millions)Calendar2014Calendar2013StubPeriodFiscal2013FacilityAnnualizedProvenPeakingCapacity(a)(c)(d)AnnualOperationalCapacity(a)(b)(d)(e)OreMinedGrade%K2O(f)FinishedProduct(b)OreMinedGrade%K2O(f)FinishedProduct(b)OreMinedGrade%K2O(f)FinishedProductOreMinedGrade%K2O(f)FinishedProductCanadaBelle Plaine—MOP2.82.48.418.02.28.218.02.24.518.01.28.118.02.1Colonsay—MOP2.52.13.826.91.42.426.10.81.026.40.33.225.81.1Esterhazy—MOP6.35.312.423.84.012.023.84.06.024.42.112.623.04.0Canadian Total11.69.824.622.37.622.621.97.011.522.13.623.921.77.2United StatesCarlsbad—MOP——2.59.50.23.310.70.31.910.60.23.210.50.3Carlsbad—K-Mag®(g)0.90.71.75.50.43.75.90.72.05.90.43.75.70.7Carlsbad Total0.90.74.27.80.67.08.21.03.98.20.66.97.91.0Hersey—MOP(h)—————0.126.7—0.126.7—0.126.70.1United States Total0.90.74.27.80.67.11.04.00.67.01.1Totals12.510.528.820.28.229.718.78.015.518.54.230.918.68.3Total excluding toll production(i)7.8

______________________________

(a)Finished product.

(b)Actual production varies from annual operational capacity shown in the above table due to factors that include among others the level of demand for our products, maintenance and turnaround time, the quality of the reserves and the nature of the geologic formations we are mining at any particular time, accidents, mechanical failure, product mix, and other operating conditions.

(c)Represents full capacity assuming no turnaround or maintenance time.

(d)The annualized proven peaking capacity shown above is the capacity currently used to determine our share of Canpotex sales. Canpotex members’ respective shares of Canpotex sales are based upon the members’ respective proven peaking capacities for producing potash. When a Canpotex member expands its production capacity, the new capacity is added to that member’s proven peaking capacity based on a proving run at the maximum production level. The annual operational capacity reported in the table above can exceed the annualized proven peaking capacity until the proving run has been completed. In December 2013, our Esterhazy mine successfully completed a proving run of its expanded capacity, increasing its proven peaking capacity from 5.3 to 6.3 million tonnes, which increased our share of Canpotex sales from approximately 39.9% to 42.5%, effective January 1, 2014. Subsequently, one of Canpotex's other members demonstrated an increase in its capacity, which resulted in lowering our share of Canpotex sales to 38.8%, effective July 1, 2014. Effective January 1, 2015, our share of Canpotex sales increased to 40.6%, as a result of a proving run of our expansion of our Colonsay mine,  which was successfully completed in 2014.

(e)Annual operational capacity is our estimated long term potash capacity based on the quality of reserves and the nature of the geologic formations expected to be mined, milled and/or processed over the long term, average amount of scheduled down time and product mix, and no significant modifications to operating conditions, equipment or facilities. Operational capacities will continue to be updated to the extent new production results impact ore grades assumptions.

(f)Grade % K2O is a traditional reference to the percentage (by weight) of potassium oxide contained in the ore. A higher percentage corresponds to a higher percentage of potassium oxide in the ore.

(g)K-Mag®is a specialty product that we produce at our Carlsbad facility. In 2014, we reduced our annual operational capacity of our K-Mag®due to lower ore grades.

(h)During the quarter ended September 30, 2013, we decided to sell the salt operations of the Hersey mine and close the related potash operations. The sale of the salt operations was completed on July 29, 2014.

(i)We toll produced MOP, for an unrelated third party, at our Esterhazy mine under a tolling agreement that expired December 31, 2012. Effective December 31, 2012, we received credit for an additional 1.2 million tonnes of capacity at









our Esterhazy mine for purposes of calculating our relative share of annual sales of potash to international customers by Canpotex, in connection with expiration of the tolling agreement.

Canadian Mines

We operate three Canadian potash facilities all located in the southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan, including our solution mine at Belle Plaine, two interconnected mine shafts at our Esterhazy shaft mine and our shaft mine at Colonsay.

Extensive potash deposits are found in the southern half of the Province of Saskatchewan. The potash ore is contained in a predominantly rock salt formation known as the Prairie Evaporites. The Prairie Evaporites deposits are bounded by limestone formations and contain the potash beds. Three potash deposits of economic importance occur in Saskatchewan: the Esterhazy, Belle Plaine and Patience Lake members. The Patience Lake member is mined at Colonsay, and the Esterhazy member at Esterhazy. At Belle Plaine all three members are mined. Each of the major potash members contains several potash beds of different thicknesses and grades. The particular beds mined at Colonsay and Esterhazy have a mining height of 11 and 8 feet, respectively. At Belle Plaine several beds of different thicknesses are mined.

Our potash mines in Canada produce MOP exclusively. Esterhazy and Colonsay utilize shaft mining while Belle Plaine utilizes solution mining technology. Traditional potash shaft mining takes place underground at depths of over 1,000 meters where continuous mining machines cut out the ore face and load it onto conveyor belts. The ore is then crushed, moved to storage bins and hoisted to refineries above ground. In contrast, our solution mining process involves heated brine, which is pumped through a “cluster” to dissolve the potash in the ore beds at a depth of approximately 1,500 meters. A cluster consists of a series of boreholes drilled into the potash ore. A separate distribution center at each cluster controls the brine flow. The solution containing dissolved potash and salt is pumped to a refinery where sodium chloride, a co-product of this process, is separated from the potash through the use of evaporation and crystallization techniques. Concurrently, the solution is pumped into a cooling pond where additional crystallization occurs and the resulting product is recovered via a floating dredge. Refined potash is dewatered, dried and sized. Our Canadian operations produce 12 different MOP products, including industrial grades, many through proprietary processes.

Our potash mineral rights in the Province of Saskatchewan consist of the following:

Belle PlaineColonsayEsterhazyTotalAcres under controlOwned in fee15,23610,845112,982139,063Leased from Province53,132114,133195,226362,491Leased from others—2,72670,83173,557Total under control68,368127,704379,039575,111

We believe that our mineral rights in Saskatchewan are sufficient to support current operations for more than a century. Leases are generally renewable at our option for successive terms, generally 21 years each, except that certain of the acres shown above as “Leased from others” are leased under long-term leases with terms (including renewals at our option) that expire from 2031 to 2162.

We pay Canadian resource taxes consisting of the Potash Production Tax and resource surcharge. The Potash Production Tax is a Saskatchewan provincial tax on potash production and consists of a base payment and a profits tax. We also pay a percentage of the value of resource sales from our Saskatchewan mines. In addition to the Canadian resource taxes, royalties are payable to the mineral owners in respect of potash reserves or production of potash. We have included a further discussion of the Canadian resource taxes and royalties in our Management’s Analysis.

Since December 1985, we have effectively managed an inflow of salt saturated brine into our Esterhazy mine. At various times since then, we have experienced changing amounts and patterns of brine inflows at Esterhazy. To date, the brine inflow, including our remediation efforts to control it, have not had a material impact on our production processes or volumes. The volume of the net brine inflow (the rate of inflow less the amount we are pumping out of the mine) or net outflow (when we are pumping more brine out of the mine than the rate of inflow) fluctuates and is dependent on a number of variables, such as the location of the source of the inflow; the magnitude of the inflow; available pumping, surface and underground brine storage capacities; underground injection well capacities, and the effectiveness of calcium chloride and cementatious grout used to reduce or prevent the inflows, among other factors. As a result of these brine inflows, we incur expenditures, certain of which have been capitalized and others that have been charged to expense, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.









It is possible that the costs of remedial efforts at Esterhazy may further increase in the future and that such an increase could be material, or, in the extreme scenario, that the brine inflows, risk to employees or remediation costs may increase to a level which would cause us to change our mining processes or abandon the mine. See “Key Factors that can Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and “Potash Net Sales and Gross Margin” in our Management’s Analysis and “Our Esterhazy mine has had an inflow of salt saturated brine for more than 25 years” in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this report, which are incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of costs, risks and other information relating to the brine inflows. We have begun construction of the new shafts at our Esterhazy mine as part of our potash expansion plan which is also designed to mitigate risk from current and future inflows.

Due to the ongoing brine inflow at Esterhazy, subject to exceptions that are limited in scope and amount, we are unable to obtain coverage for underground operations for water incursion problems. Like other potash producers’ shaft mines, our Colonsay, Saskatchewan, and Carlsbad, New Mexico, mines are also subject to the risks of inflow of water as a result of their shaft mining operations, but water inflow risks at these mines are included in our insurance coverage subject to deductibles, limited coverage terms and lower sub-limits negotiated with our insurers.

United States Mines

In the United States, we have a shaft mine located in Carlsbad, New Mexico. In 2013, we decided to sell the salt operations of our Hersey mine and close the related potash operations. The sale of the salt operations was completed on July 29, 2014.

The ore reserves at our Carlsbad mine are made up of langbeinite, a double sulfate of potassium and magnesium. This type of potash reserve occurs in a predominantly rock salt formation known as the Salado Formation. The McNutt Member of this formation consists of eleven units of economic importance, of which we currently mine one. The McNutt Member’s evaporite deposits are interlayered with anhydrite, polyhalite, potassium salts, clay, and minor amounts of sandstone and siltstone.

Continuous underground mining methods are utilized to extract the ore. Drum type mining machines are used to cut the langbeinite ore from the face. Mined ore is then loaded onto conveyors, transported to storage areas, and then hoisted to the surface for further processing at our refinery.

During 2014, two types of potash were produced at the Carlsbad refinery. MOP is the primary source of potassium for the crop nutrient industry. Double sulfate of potash magnesia is the second type of potash, which we market under our brand name K-Mag®, and contains sulfur, potassium and magnesium, with low levels of chloride. In July of 2014, we decided to permanently discontinue production of MOP at Carlsbad and effective January 1, 2015, we only produce K-Mag®at that facility.

At the Carlsbad facility, we mine and refine potash from 77,103 acres of mineral rights. We control these reserves pursuant to either (i) leases from the U.S. government that, in general, continue in effect at our option (subject to readjustment by the U.S. government every 20 years) or (ii) leases from the State of New Mexico that continue as long as we continue to produce from them. These reserves contain an estimated total of 110 million tonnes of potash mineralization (calculated after estimated extraction losses) in one mining bed evaluated at thicknesses ranging from 5.5 feet to in excess of 11 feet. At average refinery rates, these ore reserves are estimated to be sufficient to yield 22 million tonnes of langbeinite concentrates with an average grade of approximately 22% K2O. At projected rates of production, we estimate that Carlsbad’s reserves of langbeinite are sufficient to support operations for approximately 22 years.

Royalties for the U.S. operations amounted to approximately $11.0 million in2014. These royalties are established by the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, in the case of the Carlsbad leases from the U.S. government, and pursuant to provisions set forth in the leases, in the case of the Carlsbad state leases.

Reserves

Our estimates below of our potash reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization are based on exploration drill hole data, seismic data and actual mining results over more than 35 years. Proven reserves are estimated by identifying material in place that is delineated on at least two sides and material in place within a half-mile radius or distance from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Probable reserves are estimated by identifying material in place within a one mile radius from an existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Historical extraction ratios from the many years of mining results are then applied to both types of material to estimate the proven and probable reserves. We believe that all reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization reported below are potentially recoverable using existing production shaft and refinery locations.









Our estimated recoverable potash ore reserves and non-reserve potash mineralization as ofDecember 31, 2014for each of our mines are as follows:

(tonnes of ore in millions)Reserves(a)(b)PotashMineralization(a)(c)FacilityRecoverableTonnesAverageGrade(% K2O)PotentiallyRecoverableTonnesCanadaBelle Plaine81018.02,432Colonsay24226.4548Esterhazy87224.5715sub-totals1,92422.03,695United StatesCarlsbad1105.8—Totals2,03421.13,695

______________________________

(a)There has been no third party review of reserve estimates within the last five years. The reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the standards set forth in Industry Guide 7 promulgated by the SEC.

(b)Includes1.1 billiontonnes of proven reserves and0.9 billiontonnes of probable reserves.

(c)The non-reserve potash mineralization reported in the table in some cases extends to the boundaries of the mineral rights we own or lease. Such boundaries are up to 16 miles from the closest existing sampled mine entry or exploration core hole. Based on available geologic data, the non-reserve potash mineralization represents potash that we expect to mine in the future, but it may not meet all of the technical requirements for categorization as proven or probable reserves under Industry Guide 7.

As discussed more fully above, we either own the reserves and mineralization shown above or lease them pursuant to mineral leases that generally remain in effect or are renewable at our option, or are long-term leases. Accordingly, we expect to be able to mine all reported reserves that are leased prior to termination or expiration of the existing leases.

Natural Gas

Natural gas is used at our Belle Plaine solution mine as a fuel to produce steam and to dry potash products. The steam is used to generate electricity, in evaporation and crystallization processes and to provide thermal heat to the solution mining process. The Belle Plaine solution mine typically accounts for approximately 74% of our Potash segment’s total natural gas requirements for potash production. At our shaft mines, natural gas is used as a fuel to heat fresh air supplied to the shaft mines and for drying potash products. Combined natural gas usage for both the solution and shaft mines approximated 17 million MMbtu during2014. We purchase our natural gas requirements on firm delivery index price-based physical contracts and on short term spot-priced physical contracts. Our Canadian operations purchase all of their physical gas in Saskatchewan via the TransGas pipeline system using AECO price indices as pricing references. The U.S. potash operation in New Mexico purchases physical gas in the southwest respective regional market using the TransWestern El Paso Permian Basin market pricing reference. We use financial derivative contracts to manage the price of portions of our future purchases.



SALES AND DISTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES

United States and Canada

We have a United States and Canada sales and marketing team that serves our business segments. We sell to wholesale distributors, retail chains, cooperatives, independent retailers and national accounts.

Customer service and the ability to effectively minimize the overall supply chain costs are key competitive factors in the crop nutrient and animal feed ingredients businesses. In addition to our production facilities, to service the needs of our customers, we own, lease or have contractual throughput or other arrangements at strategically located distribution warehouses along or near the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers as well as in other key agricultural regions of the United States and Canada. From these facilities, we market Mosaic produced phosphate and potash products for customers who in turn resell the product into the distribution channel or directly to farmers in the United States and Canada.

We own port facilities in Tampa, Florida and Houston, Texas, which have deep water berth capabilities providing access to the Gulf of Mexico. We also own warehouse distribution facilities in Savage, Minnesota; Pekin, Illinois; and Henderson, Kentucky.









In addition to the geographically situated facilities that we own, our U.S. distribution operations also include leased distribution space or contractual throughput agreements in other key geographical areas such as California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas and Wisconsin.

Our Canadian customers include independent dealers and national accounts. We also lease and own warehouse facilities in Saskatchewan, Ontario, Quebec and Manitoba in Canada.

International

Outside of the United States and Canada, we market our Phosphates segments products through our own international distribution activities as well as a salesforce focused on geographies outside of North America.

Our sales outside of the United States and Canada of Saskatchewan potash products are made through Canpotex. Canpotex sales are allocated among its members based on peaking capacity. We have been notified by Canpotex that effective January 1, 2015, our entitlement increased from approximately 38.8% to 40.6% as a result of a proving run successfully completed at our Colonsay mine. Our potash exports from Carlsbad are sold through our own sales force. We also market our Potash segment’s products through our Phosphates segment international distribution activities, which acquire potash primarily through Canpotex. The countries that account for the largest amount of international potash sales, by volume, are Brazil, China, Indonesia, India and Malaysia.

Our international distribution operations also purchase phosphates, potash and nitrogen products from unrelated third parties, which we either use to produce blended crop nutrients (“Blends”) or for resale.

To service the needs of our customers, our international distribution activities include a network of strategically located sales offices, crop nutrient blending and bagging facilities, port terminals and warehouse distribution facilities that we own and operate in key geographic areas throughout several countries. The blending and bagging facilities primarily produce Blends from phosphate, potash and nitrogen. The average product mix in our Blends (by volume) contains approximately 50% phosphate, 25% potash and 25% nitrogen, although this mix differs based on seasonal and other factors. Our international operations serve primarily as a sales outlet for our North American Phosphates production, both for resale and as an input for Blends. Our Potash segment also has historically furnished the majority of the raw materials needs for the production of Blends, primarily via Canpotex, and is expected to continue to do so in the future.

On December 17, 2014, we completed the acquisition of ADM's fertilizer distribution business in Brazil and Paraguay. The acquisition is expected to increase our distribution capacity in the region from approximately four million tonnes per year to six million tonnes. We also negotiated the terms of five-year fertilizer supply agreements, whereby we supply ADM's fertilizer needs in Brazil and Paraguay.

We completed the sale of our Argentina assets, and plan to close the Chile business and sell the fixed assets related to Chile's distribution business, which we do not expect to significantly affect our sales in Latin America as we plan to continue to sell crop nutrients through other distributors in these regions.

The following maps show the locations of our primary distribution operations in South America and Asia:













Other Products

With a strong brand position in a multi-billion dollar animal feed ingredients global market, our Phosphates segment supplies animal feed ingredients for poultry and livestock to customers in North America, Latin America and Asia. Our potash sales to non-agricultural users are primarily to large industrial accounts and the animal feed industry. Additionally, we sell potash for de-icing and as a water softener regenerant, as well as fluorosilicic acid for water fluoridation.



COMPETITION

Because crop nutrients are global commodities available from numerous sources, crop nutrition companies compete primarily on the basis of delivered price. Other competitive factors include product quality, cost and availability of raw materials, customer service, plant efficiency and availability of product. As a result, markets for our products are highly competitive. We compete with a broad range of domestic and international producers, including farmer cooperatives, subsidiaries of larger companies, and independent crop nutrient companies. Foreign competitors often have access to cheaper raw materials, are required to comply with less stringent regulatory requirements or are owned or subsidized by governments and, as a result, may have cost advantages over North American companies. We believe that our extensive North American and international production and distribution system provides us with a competitive advantage by allowing us to achieve economies of scale, transportation and storage efficiencies, and obtain market intelligence. Also, we believe our premium products provide us a competitive advantage with customers in North and South America.Our sales of MicroEssentials®have increased steadily over the past few years, reaching 1.5 million tonnes in North America during 2014.

Unlike many of our competitors, we have our own distribution system to sell phosphate- and potash-based crop nutrients and animal feed ingredients, whether produced by us or by other third parties, around the globe. In North America, we have one of the largest and most strategically located distribution systems for crop nutrients, including warehouse facilities in key agricultural regions. We also have an extensive network of distribution facilities internationally, including in the key growth regions of South America and Asia, with port terminals, warehouses, and blending plants in Brazil, Paraguay, China, and India. Our global presence allows us to efficiently serve customers in approximately 40 countries.

Phosphates Segment

Our Phosphates segment operates in a highly competitive global market. Among the competitors in the global phosphate industry are domestic and foreign companies, as well as foreign government-supported producers in Asia and North Africa. Phosphate producers compete primarily based on price and, to a lesser extent, product quality, service and innovation, similar to how we compete with our MicroEssentials®product. Major integrated producers of feed phosphates are located in the United States, Europe and China. Many smaller producers are located in emerging markets around the world. Many of these smaller producers are not miners of phosphate rock or manufacturers of phosphoric acid and are required to purchase this material on the open market.

We believe that we are a low cost integrated producer of phosphate-based crop nutrients, due in part to our scale, vertical integration and strategic network of production and distribution facilities. As the world’s largest producer of concentrated phosphates, as well as the second largest miner of phosphate rock in the world and the largest in the United States, we maintain an advantage over some competitors as the scale of operations effectively reduces production costs per unit. We are also vertically integrated to captively supply one of our key inputs, phosphate rock, to our phosphate production facilities. We believe that our position as an integrated producer of phosphate rock provides us with a significant cost advantage over competitors that are non-integrated phosphate producers. Our investment in the Miski Mayo Mine and related commercial offtake supply agreement to purchase a share of the phosphate rock also allows us to reduce our purchases of phosphate rock from other suppliers. In addition, we expect that the Wa’ad Al Shamal Joint Venture will enable us to not only further diversify our sources of phosphates but also improve our access to key agricultural countries in Asia and the Middle East.

We produce ammonia at our Faustina, Louisiana concentrates plant in quantities sufficient to meet approximately one quarter of our total ammonia needs. With no captive ammonia production in Florida, we are subject to significant volatility in our purchase price of ammonia from world markets. One of the CF Ammonia Supply Agreements is expected to provide us with a long term supply of a substantial volume of ammonia at prices based on the price of natural gas, and is intended to lessen this volatility. With our own sulfur transportation barges and our 50% ownership interest in Gulf Sulphur Services, we are also well-positioned to source an adequate, flexible and cost-effective supply of sulfur, our third key input. We believe that our investments in sulfur transportation assets continue to afford us a competitive advantage compared to other producers in cost and access to sulfur.









With facilities in both central Florida and Louisiana, we are logistically well positioned to fulfill our needs at very competitive prices. Those multiple production points also afford us the flexibility to optimally balance supply and demand.

We have a strong brand in the countries in which we have international distribution activities. In addition to having access to our own production, our international distribution activities have the capability to supply a wide variety of crop nutrients to our dealer/farmer customer base. Our strategic positions in Brazil, Paraguay, China and India allow us to capitalize on the growth in nutrient demand in these large and growing international regions.

Potash Segment

Potash is a commodity available from several geographical regions around the world and, consequently, the market is highly competitive. Through our participation in Canpotex, we compete outside of North America against various independent and state-owned potash producers. Canpotex has substantial expertise and logistical resources for the international distribution of potash including strategically located export assets in Portland, Oregon and Vancouver, British Columbia. Our principal methods of competition with respect to the sale of potash include product pricing, and offering consistent, high-quality products and superior service. We believe that our potash cost structure is competitive in the industry and should improve as we achieve the expected increases in production from our potash expansion projects.



FACTORS AFFECTING DEMAND

We sell products throughout the world. Unfavorable changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, government policies and other regulatory requirements affecting trade; unexpected changes in tax and trade treaties; strengthening or weakening of foreign economies as well as political relations with the United States may cause sales trends to customers in one or more foreign countries to differ from sales trends in the United States.

Our international operations are subject to risks from changes in foreign currencies, or government policy, which can affect local farmer economics.



OTHER MATTERS

Employees

We had approximately 9,100 employees as ofDecember 31, 2014, consisting of approximately 3,800 salaried and 5,300 hourly employees.

Labor Relations

As ofDecember 31, 2014:

•We had ten collective bargaining agreements with unions covering 93% of our hourly employees in the U.S. and Canada. Of these employees, approximately 33% are covered under collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire in 2015.

•Agreements with eleven unions covered all employees in Brazil, representing 81% of our international employees. More than one agreement may govern our relations with each of these unions. In general, the agreements are renewable on an annual basis.









Failure to renew any of our union agreements could result in a strike or labor stoppage that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we have not experienced significant work stoppage in many years and historically have had good labor relations.

Financial Information about our Business Segments and Operations by Geographic Areas

We have included financial information about our business segments, our operations by geographic area and our revenues by class of similar products in Note24of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Information Available on our Website

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder are made available free of charge on our website, (www.mosaicco.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on our website is not being incorporated in this report.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding our executive officers as ofFebruary 17, 2015is set forth below:



NameAgePositionAnthony T. Brausen55Senior Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting OfficerGary “Bo” N. Davis62Senior Vice President—Phosphates OperationsMark J. Isaacson52Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryMark E. Kaplan47Senior Vice President—Public AffairsRichard L. Mack47Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerRichard N. McLellan58Senior Vice President—CommercialJames “Joc” C. O’Rourke54Executive Vice President—Operations and Chief Operating OfficerWalter F. Precourt III50Senior Vice President—Potash OperationsJames T. Prokopanko61Chief Executive Officer, President and DirectorCorrine D. Ricard51Senior Vice President—Human Resources

Anthony T. Brausen. Mr. Brausen was elected Senior Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting Officer of Mosaic in December 2011. His responsibilities include global Accounting, Financial Planning, Treasury, Tax, Risk Advisory & Assurance and Information Technology. Previously, Mr. Brausen served as Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting Officer since April 2006. Prior to joining Mosaic as an employee in February 2006, Mr. Brausen had been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Tennant Company, a designer, manufacturer and marketer of floor maintenance and outdoor cleaning equipment, chemical-free cleaning technologies, specialty surface coatings and related products, since March 2000. From 1989-2000, Mr. Brausen held several financial management positions, including Vice President and Treasurer, Assistant Controller and Director of Investor Relations, with International Multifoods Corporation, a diversified publicly-traded food processor and distributor. From 1981-1989, Mr. Brausen held various positions with KPMG LLP.

Gary “Bo” N. Davis.Mr. Davis was elected Senior Vice President—Phosphate Operations of Mosaic in July 2011. Previously, Mr. Davis served as Vice President—Phosphate Operations of Mosaic since June 2010, as Vice-President—Phosphate Operations for all of Mosaic’s Florida and Louisiana operations since 2007 and Vice President of Mining since Mosaic’s formation in 2004. Prior to the Combination, Mr. Davis held several positions at Cargill, including Vice President, Operations for the fertilizer division from 1999 to 2004. Mr. Davis has worked in the crop nutrient industry for over 30 years.

Mark J. Isaacson.Mr. Isaacson was elected to Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in August 2014. Mr. Isaacson joined Mosaic upon its formation in 2004 as its Chief Phosphates Counsel before being promoted to Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer in 2011 and to Vice President, Acting General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in June 2014. Prior to joining Mosaic, Mr. Isaacson worked for 15 years at Cargill, Inc., where he served as Senior Attorney for a number of its business units.

Mark E. Kaplan.Mr. Kaplan was elected Senior Vice President—Public Affairs in May 2014. Mr. Kaplan also provides executive oversight for Mosaic's land development and permitting organization.  Previously, he served us as Vice President—Public Affairs since August 2011. Mr. Kaplan joined Mosaic in January 2007 as Vice President – Planning and Government Affairs of our subsidiary Mosaic Fertilizer, LLC to lead its government affairs function in Florida. In May 2010, Mr. Kaplan









became Vice President – Public Affairs and Policy for Mosaic’s Phosphates business segment, leading its overall public affairs function. Prior to joining Mosaic, Mr. Kaplan served as chief of staff for former Florida Governor Jeb Bush. He also held roles as president and general counsel of Carlisle Development Group LLC, executive director of the Florida Housing Finance Corporation and a shareholder in the law firm Katz, Kutter, Haigler, Alderman, Bryant & Yon, P.A.

Richard L. Mack.Mr. Mack was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in May 2014. He previously served us as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 1, 2009 and before that as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since our formation in 2004. Mr. Mack was a founding executive responsible for our formation in the 2004 business combination between IMC Global and Cargill Crop Nutrition and was a core member of the executive team responsible for our subsequent successful spin-off from Cargill.  Since that time he has played key roles in negotiating and executing strategic transactions; led our successful resolution of a number critical legal disputes; led the development of our land use strategy, including the development of Streamsong Resort; and led the development and implementation of our phosphate rock mine permitting strategy in Florida.  Prior to our formation, Mr. Mack was a Senior Attorney in Cargill’s worldwide law department and a co-founder of Cargill’s venture capital business unit.  Mr. Mack holds a bachelor’s degree in accounting from Minnesota State University-Moorhead, a Juris Doctor from Hamline University School of Law and an MBA from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University.

Richard N. McLellan.Mr. McLellan was elected as Senior Vice President—Commercial in April 2007. Previously, Mr. McLellan had served us as our Vice President—North American Sales since December 2005 and as Country Manager for our (and, prior to the Combination, Cargill’s) Brazilian crop nutrient business since November, 2002. Mr. McLellan joined Cargill in 1989 and held various roles in its Canadian and U.S. operations, including grain, retail and wholesale crop nutrient distribution.

James “Joc” C. O’Rourke.Mr. O’Rourke was promoted to Executive Vice President—Operations and Chief Operating Officer in August 2012. Previously, Mr. O’Rourke served as Executive Vice President—Operations since January 2009. Prior to joining Mosaic, Mr. O’Rourke was President, Australia Pacific for Barrick Gold Corporation, the largest gold producer in Australia, since May 2006, where he was responsible for the Australia Pacific Business Unit consisting of ten gold and copper mines in Australia and Papua New Guinea. Before that, Mr. O’Rourke was Executive General Manager in Australia and Managing Director of Placer Dome Asia Pacific Ltd., the second largest gold producer in Australia, from December 2004, where he was responsible for the Australia Business Unit consisting of five gold and copper mines; and General Manager of Western Australia Operations for Iluka Resources Ltd., the world’s largest zircon and second largest titanium producer, from September 2003, where he was responsible for six mining and concentrating operations and two mineral separation/synthetic rutile refineries. Mr. O’Rourke had previously held various management, engineering and other roles in the mining industry in Canada and Australia since 1984.

Walter F. Precourt III.Mr. Precourt was promoted to Senior Vice President—Potash Operations in May 2012. Previously, Mr. Precourt led Mosaic's Environment, Health and Safety organization since joining Mosaic in 2009. Prior to joining Mosaic, Mr. Precourt joined cement and mineral component producer Holcim (U.S.) to lead its safety transformation, later becoming Holcim's Vice President of Environment and Government Affairs. Mr. Precourt started his career at The Dow Chemical Company where he served in a variety of roles in Operations, Technology, Capital Project Management, and Environmental, Health and Safety. Mr. Precourt serves as Chairman of the Board of the Saskatchewan Potash Producers Association and is a Director of the Canadian Fertilizer Institute.

James T. Prokopanko.Mr. Prokopanko became our President and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2007. Until joining us as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer on July 31, 2006, Mr. Prokopanko was a Corporate Vice President of Cargill since 2004. He was Cargill’s Corporate Vice President with executive responsibility for procurement from 2002 to 2006 and a platform leader responsible for Cargill’s Ag Producer Services Platform from 1999 to July 2006. After joining Cargill in 1978, Mr. Prokopanko served in a wide range of leadership positions, including being named Vice President of North American crop inputs business in 1995. During his Cargill career, Mr. Prokopanko was engaged in retail agriculture businesses in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Argentina and the United Kingdom. Mr. Prokopanko resigned from all of his then current positions with Cargill and its subsidiaries (other than Mosaic) in connection with his election as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Mosaic. Mr. Prokopanko has served as a director of Mosaic since October 2004 and served as a member of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the Environmental, Health and Safety Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors since his election to the Board through July 31, 2006.

Corrine D. Ricard.Ms. Ricard was named Senior Vice President—Human Resources in April 2012. Ms. Ricard has held various leadership positions at Mosaic since its formation, including Vice President—International Distribution, Vice President—Business Development and Vice President—Supply Chain. Prior to Mosaic’s formation, Ms. Ricard worked for Cargill in various roles including risk management, supply chain and commodity trading.









Our executive officers are generally elected to serve until their respective successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. No “family relationships,” as that term is defined in Item 401(d) of Regulation S-K, exist among any of the listed officers.



