ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

When evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. These risk factors could affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. If any
 of the following occurs, our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. In addition, the trading price of our securities could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerningour company set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Annual Report.

Sempra Energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries.

Sempra Energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. In the long term,
 cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own capital expenditures and long-term debt obligations. In addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including as a result of legislation or regulation or in times of financial distress.

Our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.

Our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations.

The credit markets and financial services industry have recently experienced a period 
of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention and proposals for further intervention and additional regulation.

Limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In difficult credit markets, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. This could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our short-term and long-term profitability.

The availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. If the credit ratings of SoCalGas or SDG&E were to be
 reduced, their businesses could be adversely affected and any reduction in Sempra Energy's ratings could adversely affect its non-utility subsidiaries.

Risks Related to All Sempra Energy Subsidiaries

Our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation.

In recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on both federal and state levels. These changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. These changes are ongoing, and we cannot pre
dict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. Moreover, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. Our business is subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the laws and regulations that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. Compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations could materially affect our tax expense. Changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

Our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the Sempra Utilities and other Sempra Energy operations. These rules are commonly re
ferred to as the Affiliate Transaction Rules. These businesses could be adversely affected by changes in these rules or by additional CPUC or FERC rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the Sempra Utilities and with each other. Affiliate Transaction Rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the CPUC before entering into any such transactions with the Sempra Utilities. Any such restrictions or approval requirements could adversely affect the LNG receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries.

Our businesses require numerous permits and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could cause our sales to decline and/or our costs to increase.

All of our existing and planned development projects require multiple permits. The acquisition, ownership and operation of LNG receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation and transmission facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. Once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs.

Our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could adversely affect our profitability.

Weare subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, climate change and GHG emissions. We are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. Additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. In addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may be subject to penalties, fines and/or curtailments of our operations.

The scope and effect of new environmental 
laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. Increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion. In particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may limit or otherwise adversely affect our operations. The implementation of recent and proposed California and federal legislation and regulation may adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emis
sions credits. Similarly, the Sempra Utilities may be affected if costs are not recoverable in rates. The effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth. In addition, SDG&E may be subject to penalties if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met.

In addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could adversely affect us. Moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may adversely affect us and our facilities and operations.

We provide further discussion of these matters in Notes 14, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in th
e Annual Report.

Natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our business, earnings and cash flows.

Like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. Such facilities include

§generation plants§chartered LNG tankers§electric transmission and distribution§natural gas pipelines and storage§LNG receipt terminals and storage

Such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. Any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, earnings and cash flows.

Depending on the nature and location of the facilities affected, any such incident also could cause fires, leaks, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries or fatalities. Any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. Insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, earnings and cash flows.

Our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us.

Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits. We have spent, and continue to spend, substan
tial amounts defending these lawsuits, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. In particular, SDG&E is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of San Diego County wildfires in 2007. We discuss this and other litigation in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. The uncertainties inherent in legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. In addition, California juries have demonstrated an increasing willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. Accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.

We discuss these proceedings in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Annual Report.

Risks Related to the Sempra Utilities

The Sempra Utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may adversely affect the operations, performance and growth of their businesses.

The CPUC regulates the Sempra Utilities' rates, except SDG&E's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the FERC. The CPUC also regulates the Sempra Utilities':

§conditions of service§rates of depreciation§capital structure§long-term resource procurement§rates of return§sales of securities

The CPUC conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, compliance with CPUC regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. These reviews and audits may result in disallowances and penalties that could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. We discuss various CPUC proceedings relating to the Sempra Utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Annual Report.

The Sempra Utilities may spend funds related to a major capital project prior to 
receiving regulatory approval. If the project does not receive regulatory approval or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may not be able to recover all amounts spent for that project, which could adversely affect earnings and cash flows.

The CPUC periodically approves the Sempra Utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs and an authorized rate of return on investment. If actual capital expenditures and operating costs were to exceed the amount approved by the CPUC, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected.

The CPUC applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all California utilities. Under these, earnings potential above authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, rather than relying solely on expanding utility plant (rate base) to increase earnings. At the Semp
ra Utilities, the areas that are eligible for incentives are operational activities such as employee safety, energy efficiency programs and, at SoCalGas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. Although the Sempra Utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that theywill receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. Additionally, if the Sempra Utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances or penalties which could negatively affect earnings and cash flows.

The FERC regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on transmission investments, and other similar matters involving SDG&E.

The Sempra Utilitiesmay be adversely affected by new regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the CPUC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies. New legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how theyoperate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur additional expenses.

The construction and expansion of the Sempra Utilities' natural gas pipelines, SoCalGas' storage facilities, and SDG&E's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits and approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. If there are delays in obtaining required approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the Sempra Utilities' business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition cou
ld be materially adversely affected.

Recovery of 2007 Wildfire Litigation Costs

SDG&E is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of the San Diego County wildfires in 2007. It expects that substantially all reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims that exceed its liability insurance coverage and any amounts recovered from other potentially responsible parties will be recovered from utility customers. However, recovery from customers will require future regulatory actions, and a failure to obtain recovery, or any negative assessment of the likelihood of recovery, would likely have a material adverse effect on Sempra Energy’s and SDG&E’s cash flows and results of operations. In addition, SDG&E's cash flows may be adversely affected due to the timing differences between resolution of claims and the recoveries from other potentially responsible parties and utility
 customers, which may extend over a number of years.

SDG&E may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its ownership of nuclear facilities.

SDG&E has a 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS, a 2,150-MW nuclear generating facility near San Clemente, California, operated by Southern California Edison Company. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. SDG&E's ownership interest in SONGS subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include

§the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials;

§limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and

§uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of replacing steam generators or other equipment, and the decommissioning of nuclear plants.

Risks Related to our Generation, LNG, Pipelines & Storage and Other Businesses

Our businesses are exposed to market risk, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be adversely affected by fluctu
ations in commodity market prices that are beyond our control.

Sempra Generation generates electricity that it sells under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. It purchases natural gas to fuel its power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy its contractual obligations. As part of its risk management strategy, Sempra Generation may hedge a substantial portion of its electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage its portfolio.

We buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for power plants or for LNG receipt terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. Our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, LNG or other commodities that we buy change
 in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions.

Unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including:

§weather conditions

§seasonality

§changes in supply and demand

§transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies

§availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources

§commodity production levels

§actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries with respect to the supply of crude oil

§federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation

§natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events

§expropriation of assets by foreign countries

The FERC has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. The FERC may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. Any such action by the FERC may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.

When our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, we are exposed to inflation and interest rate risks.

Sempra Generation, Sempra Pipelines & Storag
e and Sempra LNG generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. However, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials and equipment, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. To the extent possible, we may mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, or providing for cost escalation. However, these measures may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs.

Business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence oper
ation as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments.

The acquisition, development, construction and expansion of LNG receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built.

Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things:

§negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements

§negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements

§receipt of required governmental permits

§timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction

Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by:

§unforeseen engineering problems

§construction delays and contractor performance
 shortfalls

§work stoppages

§equipment supply

§adverse weather conditions

§environmental and geological conditions

§other factors

If we are unable to complete the development of a facility, we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project.

The operati
on of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of generation or regasification and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, and operating performance below expected levels. In addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, storage and transmission systems. The occurrence of any of these events could lead to operating facilities below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. Such occurrences could adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations.

We may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competitio
n.

The electric generation and wholesale power sales industries have become highly competitive. As more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. Without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility. The 10-year power sales agreement between Sempra Generation and the DWR, which comprised 8 percent of our revenues in 2010, 9 percent in 2009 and 10 percent in 2008, expires in September 2011. As a result, we may be unable to sell the power generated by Sempra Generation's facilities or operate those facilities profitably.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage's natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on supplies of LNG and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include Sempra LNG facilities.

We provide information about these matters in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performin
g in accordance with their agreements. If they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.

We are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements will not perform their obligations under such agreements. Should they fail to perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. In such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. In addition, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. While we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to co
llect amounts owed to us.

Sempra LNG's obligations and those of its suppliers for LNG supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for "force majeure" events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements.

We rely on transportation assets and services that we do not own or control to deliver electricity and natural gas.

We depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to:

§de
liver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets,

§supply natural gas to our electric generation facilities, and

§provide retail energy services to customers.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage also depends on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. Sempra LNG also relies on specialized ships to transport LNG to its facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. If transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver our products and services may be hindered. As a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our custom
ers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative natural gas supplies at then-current spot market rates.

We cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. Our hedging procedures may not work as planned.

To reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and LNG, electric generation capacity, and natural gas storage and pipeline capacity. As part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. We do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. To the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our
 hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Risk management procedures may not prevent losses.

Although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. Risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by the companies or may not always work as planned. In addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. As a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would ne
gatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.

We have interests in electricity generation and transmission, natural gas distribution and transportation, and LNG terminal projects in Mexico and electricity and natural gas distribution businesses in Argentina, Chile and Peru, and we intend to significantly increase our interests in South America, as we discuss in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal and financial
 risks that vary by country, including:

§changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and U.S. laws and regulations related to foreign operations

§high rates of inflation

§changes in government policies or personnel

§trade restrictions

§limitations on U.S. company ownership in foreign countries

§permitting and regulatory compliance

§changes in labor supply and labor relations

§adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits, difficulty in enforcing contractual rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in Mexico and other foreign jurisdictions

§general political, economic and business conditions

Our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. These risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates 
and devaluations of foreign currencies. In such cases, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar against a local currency could reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in increased taxes in foreign countries. While Sempra Pipelines & Storage believes that it has contracts and other measures in place to mitigate its most significant foreign currency exchange risks, some exposure is not fully mitigated.

We discuss litigation related to Sempra LNG's Energía Costa Azul LNG receipt terminal in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Other Risks

Sempra Energy has substantial inve
stments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage.

Sempra Energy is a partner with RBS in RBS Sempra Commodities, a commodities-marketing firm, which divested substantially all of its businesses and assets in 2010 and early 2011, as we discuss above under "Description of Business – Sempra Commodities." Our remaining investment in the partnership is $787 million at December 31, 2010. The realization of this investment, which is the undistributed portion of our share of the proceeds from the divestitures and related cash distributions, depends on the collection of accounts receivable by the partnership, as well as net margin that is expected to be collected as customers are transferred to the new owner of certain businesses sold. We have guaranteed various obligations of businesses previously owned and operated by RBS Sempra Commodities, as we discuss in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
in the Annual Report.

We also own a 25-percent interest in Rockies Express Pipeline LLC (Rockies Express), a joint venture which completed construction in 2009 of a 1,679-mile natural gas pipeline at an estimated cost of approximately $6.8 billion. Our investment in Rockies Express is $854 million at December 31, 2010. Rockies Express is controlled by Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, which holds a 50-percent interest. We also have smaller investments in other entities that we do not control or manage, or in which we share control, and we continue to make such investments.

We may not control and have limited influence over these businesses and their management. In addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit 
support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.



ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

ELECTRIC PROPERTIES – SDG&E

At December 31, 2010, SDG&E owns and operates three natural gas-fired power plants:

1. a 560-MW electric generation facility (the Palomar generation facility) in Escondido, California

2.a 47.6-MW electric generation peaking facility (the Miramar I generation facility) in San Diego, California

3.a 48.6-MW electric generation peaking facility (the Mirama
r II generation facility) in San Diego, California

SDG&E has exercised its option to purchase the 480-MW El Dorado natural gas-fired power plant located in Boulder City, Nevada from Sempra Generation in the second half of 2011.

SDG&E's interest in SONGS is described above in Item 1 under "Electric Utility Operations–SONGS."

At December 31, 2010, SDG&E's electric transmission and distribution facilities included substations, and overhead and underground lines. These electric facilities are located in San Diego, Imperial and Orange counties of California, and in Arizona. The facilities consist of 1,920 miles of transmission lines and 22,360 miles of distribution lines. Periodically, various areas of the service territory require expansion to accommodate customer growth.

NATURAL GAS PROPERTIES – SEMPRA UTILITIES

At December 31, 2010, SDG&E's natural gas facilities, which are located in San Diego and Riverside counties of California, consisted of the Moreno and Rainbow compressor stations, 168 miles of transmission pipelines, 8,459 miles of distribution mains and 6,367 miles of service lines.

At December 31, 2010, SoCalGas’ natural gas facilities included 2,959 miles of transmission and storage pipelines, 49,647 miles of distribution pipelines and 47,310 miles of service pipelines. They also included 11 transmission compressor stations and 4 underground natural gas storage reservoirs with a combined working capacity of 134.1 billion cubic feet (Bcf).

ENERGY PROPERTIES – SEMPRA GLOBAL

At December 31, 2010, Sempra Generation operates or owns interests in power plants in Arizona, Nevada, Indiana, and Mexico with a total capacity of 2,513 MW. We provide additional information in "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Sempra Generation leases or owns property in Arizona, California, Nevada, Hawaii and Mexico for potential development of solar and wind electric generation facilities.

At December 31, 2010, Sempra Pipelines & Storage's operations in Mexico included 1,883 miles of distribution pipelines, 224 miles of transmission pipelines and 3 compressor stations.

In 2006, Sempra Pipelines & Storage and Proliance Transportation and Storage, LLC acquired three existing salt caverns representing 10 Bcf to 12 Bcf of potential natural gas storage capacity in Cameron Parish, Louisiana, with plans for development of a natural gas storage facility.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage operates Mobile Gas, a natural gas distribution utility located in Mobile and Baldwin counties in Alabama. Its property consists of distribution mains, service lines and regulating equipment.

In Washington County, Alabama, Sempra Pipelines & Storage operates a 15.5 Bcf natural gas storage facility under a land lease, with plans to expand total working capacity to 27 Bcf. Sempra Pipelines & Storage also owns land in Simpson County, Mississippi, on which it operates a 7.5 Bcf natural gas storage facility, with plans to develop natural gas storage with a working capacity of 30 B
cf. Portions of both these properties are currently under construction.

Sempra LNG operates its Energía Costa Azul LNG receipt terminal on land it owns in Baja California, Mexico and has a land lease in Hackberry, Louisiana, where it operates its Cameron LNG receipt terminal. Sempra LNG also owns land in Port Arthur, Texas, for potential development.

OTHER PROPERTIES

Sempra Energy occupies its 19-story corporate headquarters building in San Diego, California, pursuant to an operating lease that expires in 2015. The lease has two five-year renewal options.

SoCalGas leases approximately one-fourth of a 52-story office building in downtown Los Angeles, California, pursuant to an operating lease expiring in
 2026. The lease has four five-year renewal options.

SDG&E occupies a six-building office complex in San Diego pursuant to two separate operating leases, both ending in December 2017. One lease has four five-year renewal options and the other lease has three five-year renewal options.

Sempra Global leases office facilities at various locations in the U.S. and Mexico with the leases ending from 2011 to 2035.

Sempra Energy, SDG&E and SoCalGas own or lease other land, easements, rights of way, warehouses, offices, operating and maintenance centers, shops, service facilities and equipment necessary to conduct their business.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGSWe are not party to, and our property is not the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings (other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our businesses) except for the matters (1) described in Notes 14, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, or (2) referred to in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Annual Report.ITEM 4. RESERVED



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

The common stock, related shareholder, and dividend restriction information required by Item 5 is included in "Common Stock Data" in the Annual Report.

PERFORMANCE GRAPH – COMPARATIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS

The performance graph required by Item 5 is provided in "Performance Graph – Comparative Total Shareholder Returns" in the Annual Report.

SEMPRA ENERGY EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS

Sempra Energy has long term incentive plans that permit the grant of a wide variety of equity and equity-based incentive awards to directors, officers and key employees. At December 31, 2010, outstanding awards consisted of stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units held by 325 employees.

The fol
lowing table sets forth information regarding our equity compensation plans at December 31, 2010.



Number of shares tobe issued uponNumber ofexercise ofWeighted-averageadditionaloutstandingexercise price ofshares remainingoptions, warrantsoutstanding options,available for futureand rights (A)warrants and rightsissuanceEquity compensation plans approvedby shareholders:2008 Long Term Incentive Plan5,613,322$44.773,505,918(B)Equity compensation plans not approvedby shareholders:2008 Long Term Incentive Plan forEnergySouth, Inc. Employees andOther Eligible Individuals (C)17,150$49.42253,653(D)Total5,630,472$44.793,759,571(A)Consists solely of options to purchase shares of our common stock, all of which were granted at an exercise price of 100% of the grant date fair market value of the shares subject to the option.(B)The number of shares available for future issuance is increased by the number of shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations relating to stock option and other plan awards and by the number of shares subject to awards that lapse, expire or are otherwise terminated or are settled other than by the issuance of shares.(C)Adopted in connection with our acquisition of EnergySouth in October 2008 to utilize shares remaining available under the 2008 Incentive Plan of EnergySouth, Inc., which had been previously approved by EnergySouth shareholders.(D)The number of shares available for future issuance is increased by the number of shares subject to awards that terminate without the issuance of shares.



We provide additional discussion of share-based compensation in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES BY THE ISSUER AND AFFILIATED PURCHASERS<
/strong>

On September 11, 2007, the Sempra Energy board of directors authorized the repurchase of Sempra Energy common stock provided that the amounts spent for such purpose do not exceed the greater of $2 billion or amounts spent to purchase no more than 40 million shares.

During 2008, we expended $1 billion to purchase a total of 18,416,241 shares. No shares were repurchased under this authorization during 2009.

In September 2010, we entered into a Collared Accelerated Share Acquisition Program with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, under which we prepaid $500 million to repurchase shares of our common stock. We discuss this program, which is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2011, in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

The f
ollowing table sets forth information concerning purchases made by us, from the program authorized above, of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2010:

MaximumTotal Number ofDollar Value ofTotalShares Purchased asShares that mayNumberAveragePart of PubliclyYet be Purchasedof SharesPrice PaidAnnounced PlansUnder the PlansPurchased(1)Per Share(1)or Programs(1)or ProgramsOctober 20102,407,994$2,407,994Total2,407,994$2,407,994$500 million remaining(2)(1)All shares were purchased under the Collared Accelerated Share Acquisition Program entered into in September 2010. The weighted average cost to us of shares purchased under the program will not be determinable until the completion of the program, which is expected to conclude by the end of the first quarter of 2011.(2)Our board of directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of our common stock provided that the amounts expended for such purposes do not exceed the greater of $2 billion or amounts expended to purchase no more than 40 million shares. We prepaid $500 million under a Collared Accelerated Share Acquisition Program with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association in September 2010 and expended an additional $1 billion pursuant to a share repurchase program completed in 2008. Therefore, approximately $500 million remains authorized by the board for the purchase of additional shares. We a
lso may, from time to time, purchase shares of our common stock from restricted stock plan participants who elect to sell a sufficient number of vesting restricted shares to meet minimum statutory tax withholding requirements.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATAThe information required by Item 6 is included in "Five-Year Summaries" in the Annual Report.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe information required by Item 7 is set forth under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Annual Report, on pages 2 through 59.



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKThe information required by Item 7A is set forth under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Market Risk" in the Annual Report.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATAThe information required by Item 8 is set forth on pages 74 through 205 of the Annual Report. Item 15(a)1 of Part IV of this report includes a listing of financial
 statements included.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURENot applicable.



ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESThe information required by Item 9A is provided in "Controls and Procedures" in the Annual Report.



ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATIONNone.



PART IIIITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCESEMPRA ENERGYWe provide the information required by Item 10 with respect to executive officers for Sempra Energy in Part I, Item 1. Business under "Executive Officers of the Registrants – Sempra Energy." All other information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference from "Corporate Governance" and "Share Ownership" in the Proxy Statement prepared for the May 2011 annual meetin
g of shareholders.SDG&E, PEAND SOCALGASWe provide the information required by Item 10 with respect to executive officers for SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas in Part I, Item 1. Business under "Executive Officers of the Registrants – SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas." All other information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference from the Information Statement prepared for the June 2011 annual meetings of shareholders.



<
p style="MARGIN:24pt 0in 6pt">ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATIONThe information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from "Corporate Governance" and "Executive Compensation," including "Compensation Discussion and Analysis" and "Compensation Committee Report" in the Proxy Statement prepared for the May 2011 annual meeting of shareholders for Sempra Energy and from the Information Statement prepared for the June 2011 annual meetings of shareholders for SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas.



ITEM 12
. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERSSECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANSInformation regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans as required by Item 12 is included in Item 5.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERSThe security ownership information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from "Share Ownership" in the Proxy Statement prepared for the May 2011 annual meeting of shareholders for Sempra Energy and from the Information Statement prepared for the June 2011 ann
ual meetings of shareholders for SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas.



ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCEThe information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from "Corporate Governance" in the Proxy Statement prepared for the May 2011 annual meeting of shareholders for Sempra Energy and from the Information Statement prepared for the June 2011 annual meetings of shareholders for SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas.



ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICESInformation regarding principal accountant fees and services, as required by Item 14, is incorporated by reference from "Proposals To Be Voted On - Proposal 2: Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in the Proxy Statement prepared for the May 2011 annual meeting of shareholders for Sempra Energy and fromthe Information Statement prepared for the June 2011 annual meetings of shareholders for SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Page in Annual Report(1)Sempra EnergySan DiegoGas & Electric CompanyPacific EnterprisesSouthern California Gas CompanyManagement's Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting65656565<
/td>Reports of Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm66687
072Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 200874818792Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 200975828893Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 200877849095Statements of Consolidated Comprehensive Income and Changes in Equity for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 200879869196Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements97979797(1) Incorporated by reference from the indicated pages of the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1.

2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

Sempra Energy

Schedule I--Sempra Energy Condensed Financial Information of Parent may be found on page 36.

Pacific Enterprises

Schedule I--Pacific Enterprises Condensed Financial Information of Parent may be found on page 40.

Any other schedule for which provision is made in Regulation S-X is not required under the instructions contained therein, is inapplicable or the information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto in the Annual Report.

3. EXHIBITS

See Exhibit Index on page 48 of this report.



CONSENTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM AND REPORT ON SCHEDULESEMPRA ENERGYTo the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Sempra Energy:We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-153425 on Form S-3 and 333-56161, 333-50806, 333-49732, 333-121073, 333-128441, 333-151184, 333-155191, 333-129774 and 333-157567 on Form S-8 of our reports dated February 24, 2011, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Sempra Energy a
nd subsidiaries (the "Company"), and the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Sempra Energy for the year ended December 31, 2010.Our audits of the financial statements referred to in our aforementioned report relating to the consolidated financial statements also included the financial statement schedule of the Company, listed in Item 15.  This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company’s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein./S/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLPSan Diego, CaliforniaFebruary 24, 2011



SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANYTo the Board of Directors and Shareholders of San Diego Gas & Electric Company:We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-133541 and 333-159046 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 24, 2011, relating to the consolidated financial statements of San Diego Gas & Electric Company (the "Company"), and the effectiveness of the Company's inte
rnal control over financial reporting, incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of San Diego Gas & Electric Company for the year ended December 31, 2010./S/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLPSan Diego, CaliforniaFebruary 24, 2011



SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GAS COMPANYTo the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Southern California Gas Company:W
e consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-134289 and 333-159041 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 24, 2011, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Southern California Gas Company and subsidiaries (the "Company"), and the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting, incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Southern California Gas Company for the year ended December 31, 2010./S/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLPSan Diego, CaliforniaFebruary 24, 2011



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMPACIFIC ENTERPRISESTo the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Pacific Enterprises:We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Pacific Enterprises and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, and the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, and have issued our reports thereon dated February 24, 2011; such consolidated financial statements and reports are included in your 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated by reference herein. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule o
f the Company listed in Item 15. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein./S/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLPSan Diego, CaliforniaFebruary 24, 2011



SCHEDULE I –
; SEMPRA ENERGY CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF PARENT



SEMPRA ENERGYCONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)Years ended December 31,201020092008Interest income$146$140$104Interest expense(265)(244)(130)Operation and maintenance(59)(81)(64)Other income (expense), net6550(63)Income tax benefits798993Loss before equity in earnings of subsidiaries(34)(46)(60)Equity in earnings of subsidiaries, net of income taxes7731,1651,173Net income/earnings$739$1,119$1,113Basic earnings per common share$3.02$&nbs
p;4.60$4.50Weighted-average number of shares outstanding (thousands)244,736243,339247,387Diluted earnings per common share$2.98$4.52$4.43Weighted-average number of shares outstanding (thousands)247,942247,384251,159See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Parent (Sempra Energy).





SEMPRA ENERGYCONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS(Dollars in millions)December 31,December 31,2010 <
/font>2009Assets:Cash and cash equivalents$157$7Due from affiliates27133Income taxes receivable190242Other current assets1118Total current assets385400Investments in subsidiaries11,48410,790Due from affiliates1,6832,972Other assets793820Total assets$14,345$14,982Liabilities and shareholders' equity:<
p style="MARGIN:0in 0in 0pt">Current portion of long-term debt$32$507Due to affiliates1,3311,350Other current liabilities374379Total current liabilities1,7372,236Long-term debt3,1403,196Other long-term liabilitie
s441543Shareholders' equity9,0279,007Total liabilities and shareholders' equity$14,345$14,982See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Parent (Sempra Energy).





SEMPRA ENERGYCONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS(Dollars in millions)Years ended December 31,201020092008Net cash provided by operating activities$218$97$173Dividends received from subsidiaries100150350Expenditures for property, plant and equipment(1)<
p style="MARGIN:0in 0in 0pt; TEXT-ALIGN:right" align=right>(1)(4)Expenditures for short-term investments--(640)Proceeds from sale of short-term investments-152488Purchase of trust assets-(30)(17)Proceeds from sales by trust11-2Decrease (increase) in loans to affiliates, net1,204(1,285)(149)Cash provided by (used in) investing activities1,314(1,014)30Common stock dividends paid(364)(341)(339)Issuances of common stock&nb
sp;407318Repurchases of common stock(502)(22)(1,018)Issuances of long-term debt401,4921,247Payments on long-term debt(565)(314)(11)(Decrease) increase in loans from affiliates, net(40)4(102)Other9208Cash (used in) provided by financing activities(1,382)912(197)Increase (dec
rease) in cash and cash equivalents150(5)6Cash and cash equivalents, January 17126Cash and cash equivalents, December 31$157$7$12See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Parent (Sempra Energy).





SEMPRA ENERGY

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF PARENT

Note 1. Basis of Presentation

Sempra Energy accounts for the earnings of its subsidiaries under the equity method in this unconsolidated financial information.

Other Income (Expense), Net, on the Condensed Statements of Operations includes $35 million of gains in 2010, $55 million of gains in 2009, and $53 million of losses in 2008 assoc
iated with investment earnings or losses on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans. It also includes $57 million from Mexican peso exchange losses in 2008.

Because of its nature as a holding company, Sempra Energy classifies dividends received from subsidiaries as an investing cash flow.

Note 2. Long-Term Debt



&
nbsp;December 31,December 31,(Dollars in millions)201020096.5% Notes June 1, 2016$750$7506% Notes October 15, 2039750<
font style="FONT-SIZE:9pt; COLOR:black; FONT-FAMILY:'Arial','sans-serif'"> 7509.8% Notes February 15, 20195005006.15% Notes June 15, 20185005006% Notes February 1, 2013<
td style="BORDER-RIGHT:0px; PADDING-RIGHT:5.75pt; BORDER-TOP:0px; PADDING-LEFT:5.75pt; BACKGROUND:white; PADDING-BOTTOM:0in; BORDER-LEFT:0px; PADDING-TOP:0in; BORDER-BOTTOM:0px; HEIGHT:12pt" valign=bottom>400&nb
sp;400Notes at variable rates after fixed-to-floating swap March 1, 2010-3008.9% Notes November 15, 20132502507.95% Notes March 1, 2010-200Employee Stock Ownership PlanBonds at 5.781% (fixed rate to July 1, 2010) November 1, 2014-50Bonds at variable rates payable on demand (0.63% at December 31, 2010)November 1, 2014327Market value adjustments for interest rate swap, net (expired March 1, 2010)-73,1823,714Current portion of long-term debt(32)(507)Unamortized discount on long-term debt(10)(11)Total long-term debt$3,140$3,196



Maturities of long-term debt are $32 million in 2011, $650 million in 2013, and $2.5 billion thereafter.

Addit
ional information on Sempra Energy's long-term debt is provided in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Note 3. Commitments and Contingencies

For contingencies and guarantees related to Sempra Energy, refer to Notes 5 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



SCHEDULE I – PACIFIC ENTERPRISES CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF PARENT

<
font style="FONT-SIZE:10pt; FONT-FAMILY:'Courier New'">

PACIFIC ENTERPRISESCONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(Dollars in millions)Years ended December 31,201020092008Interest and other income$1$1$11Expenses, interest and income taxes(2)(9)(7)Income (loss) before equity in earnings of subsidiaries(1)(8)4Equity in earnings of subsidiaries286273244Net income/earnings attributable to common shares$285$265$248See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Parent (Pacific Enterprises).





PACIFIC ENTERPRISESCONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS(Dollars in millions)<
/font>December 31,December 31,20102009Assets:Current assets$15$7Investment in subsidiary1,9341,745Due from affiliates, long-term502513Deferred charges and other assets3135Total assets$2,482$2,300Liabilities and shareholders' equity:Due to affiliates$85$84Other current liabilities14Total current liabilities8688Long-term liabilities-4Shareholders' equity:Preferred stock8080Common equity2,3162,128Total shareholders' equity2,3962,208Total liabilities and shareholders' equity$2,482$2,300See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Parent (Pacific Enterprises).





PACIFIC ENTERPRISESCONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS(Dollars in millions)Years ended December 31,201020092008Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities$(9)$(7)$5Dividends received from subsidiaries100-350Decrease (increase) in loans to affiliates, net1412(1)Other(1)(1)-Cash provided by investing activities11311349Common stock dividends paid(100)-(350)Preferred dividends paid(4)(4)(4)Cash used in financing activities(104)(4)(354)Net change in cash and cash equivalents---Cash and cash equivalents, January 1---Cash and cash equivalents, December 31$-$-$-See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Parent (Pacific Enterprises).





PACIFIC ENTERPRISES

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF PARENT

Note 1. Basis of Presentation

Pacific Enterprises accounts for the earnings of its subsidiaries under the equity method in this unconsolidated financial information.

Because of its nature as a holding company, Pacific Enterprises classifies dividends received from subsidiaries as an investing cash flow.

Note 2. Commitments and Conting
encies

For commitments and contingencies related to Pacific Enterprises, refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



Sempra Energy:

SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



SEMPRA ENERGY,(Registrant)



By:  /s/ Donald E. Felsinger

Donald E. FelsingerChairman and Chief Executive Officer



Date: February 24, 2011



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



Name/TitleSignatureDate

Principal Executive Officer:Donald E. FelsingerChairman and Chief Executive Officer/s/ Donald E. FelsingerFebruary 24, 2011



Principal Financial Officer:Mark A. SnellExecutive Vice President andChief Financial Officer/s/ Mark A. SnellFebruary 24, 2011



Principal Accounting Officer:Joseph A. HouseholderSenior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer/s/ Joseph A. HouseholderFebruary 24, 2011



Directors:

Donald E. Felsinger, Chairman/s/ Donald E. FelsingerFebruary 24, 2011





Alan L. Boeckmann, Director/s/ Alan L. BoeckmannFebruary 24, 2011





James G. Brocksmith, Jr., Director/s/ James G. Brocksmith, Jr.<
td width=168 style="BORDER-RIGHT:0px; PADDING-RIGHT:5.75pt; BORDER-TOP:0px; PADDING-LEFT:0in; PADDING-BOTTOM:0in; BORDER-LEFT:0px; WIDTH:1.75in; PADDING-TOP:0in; BORDER-BOTTOM:0px" valign=bottom>February 24, 2011





Wilford D. Godbold, Jr., Director/s/ Wilford D. Godbold, Jr.February 24, 2011





William D. Jones, Director/s/ William D. JonesFebruary 24, 2011





William G. Ouchi, Ph.D., Director/s/ William G. OuchiFebruary 24, 2011





Carlos Ruiz, Director/s/ Carlos RuizFebruary 24, 2011





William C. Rusnack, Director/s/ William C. RusnackFebruary 24, 2011





William P. Rutledge, Director/s/ William P. RutledgeFebruary 24, 2011





Lynn Schenk, Director/s/ Lynn SchenkFebruary 24, 2011





Neal E. Schmale, Director/s/ Neal E. SchmaleFebruary 24, 2011





Luis M. Téllez, Ph.D., Director/s/ Luis M. TéllezFebruary 24, 2011









San Diego Gas & Electric Company:SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY,(Registrant)By:  /s/ Jessie J. Knight, Jr.Jessie J. Knight, Jr.Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerDate: February 24, 2011



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.Name/TitleSignatureDatePrincipal Executive Officer:Jessie J. Knight, Jr.Chairman and Chief Executive Officer/s/ Jessie J. Knight, Jr.February 24, 2011Principal Financial and Accounting Officer:Robert M. SchlaxVice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer/s/ Robert M. SchlaxFebruary 24, 2011Directors:Jessie J. Knight, Jr., Chairman/s/ Jessie J. Knight, Jr.February 24, 2011Javade Chaudhri, Director/s/ Javade ChaudhriFebruary 24, 2011Joseph A. Householder, Director/s/ Joseph A. HouseholderFebruary 24, 2011Mark A. Snell, Director/s/ Mark A. SnellFebruary 24, 2011











Pacific Enterprises:SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, t
he registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.PACIFIC ENTERPRISES,(Registrant)By:  /s/ Michael W. AllmanMichael W. AllmanChairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerDate: February 24, 2011



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.Name/TitleSignatureDatePrincipal Executive Officer:Michael W. AllmanChairman, President and Chief Executive Officer/s/ Michael W. AllmanFebruary 24, 2011Principal Financial and Accounting Officer:Robert M. SchlaxVice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer/s/ Robert M. SchlaxFebruary 24, 2011Directors:Michael W. Allman, Chairman/s/ Michael W. AllmanFebruary 24, 2011Javade Chaudhri, Director/s/ Javade ChaudhriFebruary 24, 2011Joseph A. Householder, Director/s/ Joseph A. HouseholderFebruary 24, 2011Mark A. Snell, Director/s/ Mark A. SnellFebruary 24, 2011











Southern California Gas Company:SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GAS COMPANY,(Registrant)By:  /s/ Michael W. AllmanMichael W. AllmanChairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerDate: February 24, 2011



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.Name/TitleSignatureDatePrincipal Executive Officer:Michael W. AllmanChairman, President and Chief Executive Officer/s/ Michael W. AllmanFebruary 24, 2011Principal Financial and Accounting Officer:Robert M. SchlaxVice President, Controller, Chief
 Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer/s/ Robert M. SchlaxFebruary 24, 2011Directors:Michael W. Allman, Chairman/s/ Michael W. AllmanFebruary 24, 2011Javade Chaudhri, Director/s/ Javade ChaudhriFebruary 24, 2011Joseph A. Householder, Director/s/ Joseph A. HouseholderFebruary 24, 2011Mark A. Snell, Director/s/ Mark A. SnellFebruary 24, 2011



EXHIBIT INDEX



The exhibits filed under the Registration Statements, Proxy Statements and Forms 8-K, 10-K and 10-Q that are incorporated herein by reference were filed under Commission File Number 1-14201 (Sempra Energy), Commission File Number 1-40 (Pacific Enterprises/Pacific Lighting Corporation), Commission File Number 1-3779 (San Diego Gas & Electric Company) and/or Commission File Number 1-1402 (Southern California Gas Company).



The following exhibits relate to each registrant as indicated.

EXHIBIT 3 – BYLAWS AND ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION

Sempra Energy

3.1Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Sempra Energy effective May 23, 2008 (Appendix B to the 2008 Sempra Energy Definitive Proxy Statement, filed on April 15, 2008).



3.2Amended Bylaws of Sempra Energy effective December 4, 2
007 (Sempra Energy Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2007, Exhibit 3(ii)).



3.3Amended and Restated Bylaws of Sempra Energy effective May 26, 1998 (Registration Statement on Form S-8 Sempra Energy Registration Statement No. 333-56161 dated June 5, 1998, Exhibit 3.2).

San Diego Gas & Electric Company

3.4Amended and Restated Bylaws of San Diego Gas & Electric effective June 15, 2010 (Form8-K filed on June 17, 2010, Exhibit 3).



3.5Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of San Diego Gas & Electric Company effective November 10, 2006 (2006 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 3.02).

Pacific Enterprises / Southern California Gas Company

3.6Amended and Restated Bylaws of Pacific Enterprises effective June 14, 2010 (Form 8-K filed on June 17, 2010, Exhibit 3.2).



3.7Amended and Restated Bylaws of Southern California Gas Company effective June 14, 2010 (Form 8-K filed on June 17, 2010, Exhibit 3.1).



3.8Restated Articles of Incorporation of Pacific Enterprises (1996 PE Form 10-K, Exhibit 3.01).



3.9Restated Articles of Inc
orporation of Southern California Gas Company (1996 SoCalGas Form 10-K, Exhibit 3.01).

EXHIBIT 4 – INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

The companies agree to furnish a copy of each such instrument to the Commission upon request.

Sempra Energy

4.1Description of rights of Sempra Energy Common Stock (Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Sempra Energy effective May 23, 2008, Exhibit 3.1 above).

San Diego Gas & Electric Company

4.2Description of preferences of Cumulative Preferred Stock, Preference Stock (Cumulative) and Series Preference Stock (SDG&E Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation as of November 10, 2006, Exhibit 3.5 above).

Pacific Enterprises / Southern California Gas Company

4.3Description of preferences of Preferred Stock, Preference Stock and Series Preferred Stock (Southern California Gas Co
mpany Restated Articles of Incorporation, Exhibit 3.9 above).

Sempra Energy / San Diego Gas & Electric Company

4.4Mortgage and Deed of Trust dated July 1, 1940 (SDG&
E Registration Statement No. 2-49810, Exhibit 2A).



4.5Ninth Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 1, 1968 (SDG&E Registration Statement No. 2-68420, Exhibit 2D).



4.6Sixteenth Supplemental Indenture dated August 28, 1975 (SDG&E Registration Statement No. 2-68420, Exhibit 2E).



4.7Thirtieth Supplemental Indenture dated September 28, 1983 (SDG&E Registration Statement No. 33-34017, Exhibit 4.3).

Sempra Energy / Pacific Enterprises / Southern California Gas Company

4.8First Mortgage Indenture of Southern California Gas Company to American Trust Company dated October 1, 1940 (Registration Statement No. 2-4504 filed by Southern California Gas Company on September 16, 1940, Exhibit B-4).



4.9Supplemental Indenture of Southern California Gas Company to American Trust Company dated as of August 1, 1955 (Registration Statement No. 2-11997 filed by Pacific Lighting Corporation on October 26, 1955, Exhibit 4.07).



4.10Supplemental Indenture of Southern California Gas Company to American Trust Company dated as of June 1, 1956 (Registration Statement No. 2-12456 filed by Southern California Gas Company on April 23, 1956, Exhibit 2.08).



4.11Supplemental Indenture of Southern California Gas Company to American Trust Company dated as of December 1, 1956 (2006 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 4.09).



4.12Supplemental Indenture of Southern California Gas Company to Wells Fargo Bank dated as of June 1, 1965 (2006 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 4.10).



4.13Supplemental Indenture of Southern California Gas Company to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association dated as of August 1, 1972 (Registration Statement No. 2-59832 filed by Southern California Gas Company on September 6, 1977, Exhibit 2.19).



4.14Supplemental Indent
ure of Southern California Gas Company to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association dated as of May 1, 1976 (Registration Statement No. 2-56034 filed by Southern California Gas Company on April 14, 1976, Exhibit 2.20).



4.15 &nb
sp;Supplemental Indenture of Southern California Gas Company to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company of California, successor to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, and Crocker National Bank as Successor Trustee dated as of May 18, 1984 (Southern California Gas Company 1984 Form 10-K, Exhibit 4.29).

EXHIBIT 10 – MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Sempra Energy / San Diego Gas & Electric Company / Pacific Enterprises / Southern California Gas Company

10.1Form of Continental Forge and California Class Action Price Reporting Settlement Agreement d
ated as of January 4, 2006 (Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2006, Exhibit 99.1).



10.2Form of Nevada Antitrust Settlement Agreement dated as of January 4, 2006 (Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2006, Exhibit 99.2).

Sempra Energy / Pacific Enterprises

10.3Indemnity Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2008, between Sempra Energy, Pacific Enterprises, Enova Corporation and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (Sempra Energy March 31, 2008 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.2).



10.4First Amendment to Indemnity Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2009, by and among Sempra Energy, Pacific Enterprises, Enova Corporation and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. (Sempra Energy March 31, 2009 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.3).



10.5Second Amendment to Indemnity Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2009, by and among Sempra Energy, Pacific Enterprises, Enova Corporation and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. (Sempra Energy June 30, 2009 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.1).



10.6Third Amendment to Indemnity Agreement, dated as of December 3, 2009, by and among Sempra Energy, Pacific Enterprises, Enova Corporation and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (2009 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.06).

Sempra Energy

10.7Master Confirmation for Share Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2010, between Sempra Energy and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association. (Sempra Energy September 30, 2010 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.1).



10.8First Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2010, entered into by and among J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation, Sempra Energy Trading LLC, RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, Sempra Energy and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. (Sempra Energy June 30, 2010 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.1).



10.9Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2010, entered into by and among J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation, Sempra Energy Trading LLC, RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, Sempra Energy
 and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. (Sempra Energy Form 8-K filed on February 19, 2010, Exhibit 10.1)



10.10Letter Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2010, entered into by and between Sempra Energy and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. (Sempra Energy Form 8-K filed on February 19, 2010, Exhibit 10.2)



10.11Limited Liability Partnership Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2008, between Sempra Energy, Sempra Commodities, Inc., Sempra Energy Holdings, VII B.V., RBS Sempra Commodities LLP and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (Sempra Energy March 31, 2008 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.1).

<
td width=509 style="BORDER-RIGHT:0px; PADDING-RIGHT:1.45pt; BORDER-TOP:0px; PADDING-LEFT:0.7pt; PADDING-BOTTOM:0in; BORDER-LEFT:0px; WIDTH:381.55pt; PADDING-TOP:0in; BORDER-BOTTOM:0px" valign=bottom>

10.12First Amendment to Limited Liability Partnership Agreement, dated as of April 6, 2009 and effective as of November 14, 2008, by and among The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Sempra Energy, Sempra Commodities, Inc., Sempra En
ergy Holdings VII B.V. and RBS Sempra Commodities LLP. (Sempra Energy March 31, 2009 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.4).



10.13Second Amendment to Limited Liability Partnership Agreement, dated as of April 6, 2009 and effective as of December 23, 2009, by and among The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Sempra Energy, Sempra Commodities, Inc., Sempra Energy Holdings VII B.V. and RBS Sempra Commodities LLP (2009 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.11).



10.14Master Confirmation for Share Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2008, between Sempra Energy and Merrill Lynch International (June 30, 2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.4).



10.15First amendment to the Master Formation and Equity Interest Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2008, by and among Sempra Energy, Sempra Global, Sempra Energy Tr
ading International, B.V. and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (Sempra Energy March 31, 2008 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.3).



10.16Master Formation and Equity Interest Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 9, 2007, by and among Sempra Energy, Sempra Global, Sempra Energy Trading International, B.V. and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (Sempra Energy Form 8-K filed on July 9, 2007, Exhibit 10.2).



10.17Energy Purchase Agreement between Sempra Energy Resources and the California Department of Water Resources, executed May 4, 2001 (2001 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.01).

Sempra Energy / San Diego Gas & Electric Company

10.18Amended and Restated Operating Agreement between San Diego Gas & Electric and the California Department of Water Resources dated November 12, 2004 (2009 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.16).



10.19Amended and Restated Servicing Agreement between San Diego Gas & Electric and the California Department of Water Resources effective March 15, 2007
 (2009 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.17).

Compensation

Sempra Energy / San Diego Gas & Electric Company / Pacific Enterprises / Southern California Gas Company

10.20Amendment to the Amendment and Restatement of the Sempra Energy 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan.



10.21Amendment to the Amended and Restated Sempra Energy Severance Pay Agreement between Sempra Energy and Donald E. Felsinger (see Exhibit 10.32 below).



10.22Form of Sempra Energy 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan, 2010 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award (Sempra Energy March 31, 2010 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.1).



10.23Form of 2009 Sempra E
nergy Severance Pay Agreement (2009 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.18).



10.24Form of Sempra Energy 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan, 2009 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award (March 31, 2009 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.1).



10.25Form of Sempra Energy 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan, 2009 Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (March 31, 2009 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.2).



10.26Sempra Energy 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan (Appendix A to the 2008 Sempra Energy Definitive Proxy Statement, filed on April 15, 2008).

<
/td>

10.27Form of Indemnification Agreement with Directors and Executive Officers (June 30, 2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.2).



10.28Form of Sempra Energy 2008 Long Term 
Incentive Plan, 2008 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award (June 30, 2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.3).



10.29Form of Sempra Energy 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan, 2008 Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (June 30, 2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.4).



10.30Sempra Energy Amended and Restated Executive Life Insurance Plan (2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.15).



10.31Amendment and Restatement of the Sempra Energy Cash Balance Restoration Plan (2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.16).



10.32Form of Amended and Restated Sempra Energy Severance Pay Agreement (2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.17).



10.33Amendment and Restatement of the Sempra Energy 2005 Deferred Compen
sation Plan (2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.18).



10.34Amendment and Restatement of the Sempra Energy Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.19).



<
p style="MARGIN:0in 0in 0pt; TEXT-ALIGN:right" align=right>10.35Sempra Energy Executive Personal Financial Planning Program Policy Document (September 30, 2004 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.11).

<
/p>

10.362003 Sempra Energy Executive Incentive Plan B (2003 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.10).



10.37Sempra Energy Executive Incentive Plan effective January 1, 2003 (2002 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.09).



10.38Amended and Restated Sempra Energy Deferred Compensation and Excess Savings Plan (September 30
, 2002 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.3).



10.39Sempra Energy Employee Stock Ownership Plan and Trust Agreement effective January 1, 2001 (September 30, 2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.1).



10.40Amendment to the Amended and Restated Sempra Energy Deferred Compensation and Excess Savings Plan (2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.25).



10.41Sempra Energy Amended and Restated Executive Medical Plan. (2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.26).



10.42Form of Sempra Energy 1998 Long Term Incentive Plan, 2008 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award (2007 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.09).



10.43Form of Sempra Energy 1998 Long Term Incentive Plan, 2008 Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (2007 Se
mpra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.10).



10.44Amended and Restated Sempra Energy 1998 Long-Term Incentive Plan (June 30, 2003 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.2).

Sempra Energy

10.45Form of Sempra Energy 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan, 2010 Restricted Stock Unit Award for Sempra Energy’s Board of Directors (Sempra Energy June 30, 2010 Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.2).



10.46Sempra Energy 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan for EnergySouth, Inc. Employees and Other Eligible Individuals (Registration Statement on Form S-8 Sempra Energy Registration Statement No. 333-155191 dated November 7, 2008, Exhibit 10.1).



10.47Form of Sempra Energy 2008 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan, Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (June 30, 2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.5).



10.48Sempra Energy Amended and Restated Sempra Energy Retirement Plan for Directors (June 30, 2008 Sempra Energy Form 10-Q, Exhibit 10.7).



10.49Form of Sempra Energy 1998 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (2006 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.09).



10.50Sempra Energy 1998 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Plan (Registration Statement on Form S-8 Sempra Energy Registration Statement No. 333-56161 dated June 5, 1998, Exhibit 4.2).





Nuclear

Sempra Energy / San Diego Gas & Electric Company

10.51Nuclear Facilities Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating St
ation, approved November 25, 1987 (1992 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.7).



10.52Amendment No. 1 to the Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement dated September 22, 1994 (see Exhibit 10.51 above)(1994 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.56).



10.53Second Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (see Exhibit 10.51 above)(1994 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.57).



10.54Third Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (see Exhibit 10.51 above)(1996 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.59).



10.55Fourth Amendment to the San 
Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (see Exhibit 10.51 above)(1996 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.60).



10.56Fifth Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (see Exhibit 10.51 above)(1999 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.26).



10.57Sixth Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (see Exhibit 10.51 above)(1999 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.27).



10.58Seventh Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Sta
tion dated December 24, 2003 (see Exhibit 10.51 above)(2003 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.42).



10.59Nuclear Facilities Non-Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, approved November 25, 1987 (1992 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.8).



10.60First Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Non-Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (see Exhibit 10.59 above)(1996 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.62).



10.61Second Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Non-Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (see Exhibit 10.59 above)(1996 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.63).



10.62Third Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Non-Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (see Exhibit 10.59 above)(1999 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.31).



10.63Fourth Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Non-Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (see Exhibit 10.59 above)(1999 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.32).



10.64Fifth Amendment to the San Diego Gas & Electric Company Nuclear Facilities Non-Qualified CPUC Decommissioning Master Trust Agreement for San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station dated December 24, 2003 (see Exhibit 10.59 above)(2003 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.48).



10.65Second Amended San Onofre Operating Ag
reement among Southern California Edison Company, SDG&E, the City of Anaheim and the City of Riverside, dated February 26, 1987 (1990 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.6).



10.66U. S. Department of Energy contract for disposal of spent nuclear fuel and/or high-level radioactive waste, entered into between the DOE and Southern California Edison Company, as agent for SDG&E and others; Contract DE-CR01-83NE44418, dated June 10, 1983 (1988 SDG&E Form 10-K, Exhibit 10N).



10.67San Onofre Unit No. 1 Decommissioning Agreement between Southern California Edison Company and San Diego Gas & Electric Company dated March 23, 2000 (2009 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.62).



10.68First Amendment to the San Onofre Unit No. 1 Decommissioning Agreement between Southern California Edison Company and San Diego Gas
 & Electric Company dated January 22, 2010 (2009 Sempra Energy Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.63).

EXHIBIT 12 – STATEMENTS RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Sempra Energy

12.1Sempra Energy Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

San Diego Gas & Electric Company

12.2San Diego Gas & Electric Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Pacific Enterprises

12.3Pacific Enterprises Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Southern California Gas Company

12.4Southern California Gas Company Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

EXHIBI
T 13 – ANNUAL REPORT TO SECURITY HOLDERS

Sempra Energy / San Diego Gas & Electric Company / Pacific Enterprises / Southern California Gas Company

13.1Sempra Energy 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. (Such report, except for the portions thereof which are expressly incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, is furnished for the information of the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be deemed "filed" as part of this Annual Report).

EXHIBIT 14 – CODE OF ETHICS

San Diego Gas & Electric C
ompany / Southern California Gas Company

14.1Sempra Energy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board of Directors and Senior Officers (also applies to directors and officers of San Diego Gas & Electric Company and Southern California Gas Company) (2006 SDG&E and SoCalGas Forms 10-K, Exhibit 14.01).

EXHIBIT 21 -- SUBSIDIARIES

Sempra Energy

21.1Sempra Energy Schedule of Significant Subsidiaries at December 31, 2010.

Pacific Enterprises

21.2Pacific Enterprises Schedule of Significant Subsidiaries at December 31, 2010.

EXHIBIT 23 – CONSENTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM AND REPORT ON SCHEDULE, PAGES 32 TO 35.

EXHIBIT 31 – SECTION 302 CERTIFICATIONS

Sempra Energy

31.1Statement of Sempra Energy's Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



31.2<
p style="MARGIN:0in 0in 0pt">Statement of Sempra Energy's Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

San Diego Gas & Electric Company

31.3Statement of San Diego Gas & Electric Company’s Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



31.
4Statement of San Diego Gas & Electric Company’s Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Pacific Enterprises

31.5Statement of Pacific Enterprise's Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



31.6Statement of Pacific Enterprise's Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Southern California Gas Company

31.7Statement of Southern California Gas Company's Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



31.8Statement of Southern California Gas Company's Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

EXHIBIT 32 – SECTION 906 CERTIFICATIONS

Sempra Energy

32.1Statement of Sempra Energy's Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350.



32.2Statement of Sempra Energy's Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350.

San Diego Gas & Electric Company

32.3Statement of San Diego Gas & Electric Company’s Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350.



32.4Statement of San Diego Gas & Electric Company’s  Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350.

Pacific Enterprises

32.5Statement of Pacific Enterprise's Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350.



32.6Statement of Pacific Enterprise's Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350.

Southern California Gas Company

32.7Statement of Southern California Gas Company's Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350.



32.8Statement of Southern California Gas Company's Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350.

EXHIBIT 101 -- INTERACTIVE DATA FILE

101.INSXBRL Instance Document



101.SCHXBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document



101.CALXBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document



101.DEFXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document



101.LABXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document



101.PREXBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document







GLOSSARYAnnual Report2010 Annual Report to ShareholdersLNGLiquefied natural gasAPSCAlabama Public Service CommissionMobile GasMobile Gas Service CorporationBay GasBay Gas Storage CompanyMWMegawattBcfBillion cubic feet (of natural gas)Noble GroupNoble Group LtdCARBCalifornia Air Resources BoardNRCNuclear Regulatory CommissionCECCalifornia Energy CommissionPEPacific EnterprisesCPUCCalifornia Public Utilities CommissionPEMEXPetroleos Mexicanos (the Mexican state-owned oil company)DOEDepartment of EnergyPGEPortland General Electric CompanyDOTDepartment of TransportationQFsQualifying FacilitiesDWRDepartment of Water ResourcesRBSThe Royal Bank of Scotland plcEdisonSouthern California Edison CompanyRBS Sempra CommoditiesRBS Sempra Commodities LLPEPAEnvironmental Protection AgencyRockies ExpressRockies Express Pipeline LLCERREligible Renewable Energy ResourceRESRenewable Energy StandardFERCFederal Energy Regulatory CommissionRPSRenewables Portfolio StandardGHGGreenhouse GasSDG&ESan Diego Gas & Electric CompanyIOUsInvestor-Owned UtilitiesSECSecur
ities and Exchange CommissionISFSIIndependent Spent Fuel Storage InstallationSempra UtilitiesSan Diego Gas & Electric Company and Southern California Gas CompanyISOIndependent System OperatorSoCalGasSouthern California Gas CompanyJ.P. Morgan VenturesJ.P. Morgan Ventures Energy CorporationSONGSSan Onofre Nuclear Generating StationkVKilovoltThe BoardSempra Energy's board of directors



