Item 1.  Business



The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992 to serve as the holding company for Allstate Insurance Company.  Its business is conducted principally through Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company and other subsidiaries (collectively, including The Allstate Corporation, “Allstate”).  Allstate is primarily engaged in the property-liability insurance business and the life insurance, retirement and investment products business.  It offers its products in the United States and Canada.

The Allstate Corporation is the largest publicly held personal lines insurer in the United States.  Allstate’s strategy is to serve distinct customer segments with differentiated offerings.  The Allstate brand is widely known through the “You’re In Good Hands With Allstate®” slogan.  Allstate is the 2ndlargest personal property and casualty insurer in the United States on the basis of 2015 statutory direct premiums written according to A.M. Best.  In addition, according to A.M. Best, it is the nation’s 18thlargest issuer of life insurance business on the basis of 2015 ordinary life insurance in force and 31stlargest on the basis of 2015 statutory admitted assets.

Allstate has four business segments:

•    Allstate Protection•    Discontinued Lines and Coverages•    Allstate Financial•    Corporate and Other

To achieve its goals in2017, Allstate is focused on the following priorities:

•better serve our customers;

•achieve target economic returns on capital;

•grow customer base;

•proactively manage investments; and

•build long-term growth platforms.

In this annual report on Form 10-K, we occasionally refer to statutory financial information.  All domestic United States insurance companies are required to prepare statutory-basis financial statements.  As a result, industry data is available that enables comparisons between insurance companies, including competitors that are not subject to the requirement to prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).  We frequently use industry publications containing statutory financial information to assess our competitive position.



ALLSTATE PROTECTION SEGMENT

Products and Distribution

Total Allstate Protection premiums written were$31.60 billionin2016.  Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for 93% of Allstate’s2016consolidated insurance premiums and contract charges.  In this segment, we principally sell private passenger auto, homeowners, and other property-liability insurance products through agencies and directly through contact centers and the internet.  These products are underwritten under the Allstate®, Esurance®and Encompass®brand names.

Our Unique StrategyConsumer Segments












Allstate serves four different consumer segments with distinct interaction preferences (local advice and assistance versus self-directed) and brand preferences (brand-neutral versus brand-sensitive).

•Allstate brand auto and homeowners insurance products are sold primarily through Allstate exclusive agencies and serve customers who prefer local personalized advice and service and are brand-sensitive.  Allstate agencies also sell specialty auto products including motorcycle, trailer, motor home and off-road vehicle insurance policies; other personal lines products including renter, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella and manufactured home insurance policies; commercial lines products for small business owners; roadside assistance products; and service contracts and other products sold in conjunction with auto lending and vehicle sales transactions.  Allstate brand sales and service are supported through contact centers and the internet.  In 2016, the Allstate brand represented 91% of the Allstate Protection segment’s written premium.  In the U.S., we offer these Allstate brand products in approximately 10,200 locations through approximately 34,160 licensed producers including approximately 10,360 Allstate exclusive agencies and approximately 23,800 licensed sales professionals.  We also offer these products through approximately 2,200 independent agencies that are primarily in rural areas in the U.S.  In Canada, we offer Allstate brand products through approximately 870 employee producers working in five provinces across the country (Ontario, Quebec, Alberta, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia).

•Esurance brand auto, homeowners, renter and motorcycle insurance products are sold to customers online, through contact centers or through select agents.  Esurance serves self-directed, brand-sensitive customers.  In 2016, the Esurance brand represented 5% of the Allstate Protection segment’s written premium.

•Encompass brand auto, homeowners, umbrella and other insurance products, sold predominantly in the form of a single annual household (“package”) policy, are distributed through independent agencies that serve customers who prefer personal advice and assistance from an independent adviser and are brand neutral.  In 2016, the Encompass brand represented 4% of the Allstate Protection segment’s written premium. Encompass brand products are distributed through approximately 2,400 independent agencies.  Encompass is among the top 20 largest providers of personal property and casualty insurance products through independent agencies in the United States, based on statutory written premium information provided by A.M. Best for 2015.

•Answer Financial, a personal lines insurance agency, serves self-directed, brand-neutral consumers who want a choice between insurance carriers.  It offers comparison quotes for auto and homeowners insurance from approximately 25 insurance companies through its website and over the phone and receives commissions for this service.  Answer Financial had $599 million of non-proprietary premiums written in 2016.

Through arrangements made with other companies, agencies, and brokers, the Allstate Protection segment may offer non-proprietary products to consumers when an Allstate product is not available.  As of December 31, 2016, Allstate agencies had approximately $1.3 billion of non-proprietary personal insurance premiums under management, primarily related to property business in hurricane exposed areas, and approximately $200 million of non-proprietary commercial insurance premiums under management.

Competition

The markets for personal private passenger auto and homeowners insurance are highly competitive.  The following charts provide the market shares of our principal competitors in the U.S. by direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2015 according to A.M. Best.

Personal Lines InsurancePrivate Passenger Auto InsuranceHomeowners InsuranceInsurerMarket ShareInsurerMarket ShareInsurerMarket ShareState Farm18.6%State Farm18.3%State Farm19.1%Allstate9.6GEICO11.4Allstate8.5GEICO7.8Allstate10.1Liberty Mutual6.5Progressive6.3Progressive8.8Farmers5.7Liberty Mutual5.5USAA5.3USAA5.4USAA5.3Farmers5.0Nationwide4.0Farmers5.2Liberty Mutual5.0Travelers3.7Nationwide3.8Nationwide3.7

In the personal property and casualty insurance market, we compete principally using customer value propositions for each consumer segment.  This includes different brands, the scope and type of distribution system, price and the breadth of product offerings, product features, customer service, claim handling, and use of technology.  In addition, our proprietary database of underwriting and pricing experience enables Allstate to use sophisticated pricing algorithms to more accurately price risks while also seeking to attract and retain more customers.  For auto insurance, risk evaluation factors can include but are not limited to vehicle make, model and year; driver age and marital status; territory; years licensed; loss history; years insured with prior carrier;








prior liability limits; prior lapse in coverage; and insurance scoring utilizing certain credit report information.  For property insurance, risk evaluation factors can include but are not limited to the amount of insurance purchased; geographic location of the property; loss history; age, condition and construction characteristics of the property; and characteristics of the insured including insurance scoring utilizing certain credit report information.

Allstate differentiates itself from competitors by focusing on the needs of the entire household and offering a comprehensive range of innovative product options and features through distribution channels that best suit each market segment.  Allstate’s Your Choice Auto®insurance allows qualified customers to choose from a variety of options, such as Accident Forgiveness, Deductible Rewards®, Safe Driving Bonus®, and New Car Replacement.  We believe that Your Choice Auto insurance promotes increased growth and increased retention.  We also offer a Claim Satisfaction GuaranteeSMfeature that promises a return of premium to Allstate brand standard auto insurance customers dissatisfied with their claims experience.  Allstate House and Home®insurance is our homeowners product that provides options of coverage for roof damage including graduated coverage and pricing based on roof type and age.  Good Hands Rescue®is a service that provides pay on demand access to roadside services.

Our Allstate branded Drivewise®and our Esurance branded DriveSense®offerings are telematic-based insurance programs that use a mobile application or an in-car device to capture driving behaviors and reward customers for driving safely.  The Drivewise mobile application also provides customers with information and tools to encourage safer driving and incentivize them through driving challenges.  Drivewise offers Allstate Rewards®, a program that provides reward points for safe driving.

Our Allstate Milewise®and Esurance Pay Per Mile®usage-based insurance products give customers flexibility to customize their insurance and pay based on the number of miles they drive.

In 2016, we launched Arity, a non-insurance technology company that leverages software, data and analytics and our telematics-based insurance programs to help better manage risk.  Allstate brand, Esurance and Answer Financial are currently using Arity’s software, data and analytics.  Arity is planning to market its services to non-affiliates in 2017.

The Encompass®package policy offers broad coverage options specifically focused on customers who prefer an independent agency while simplifying the insurance experience by packaging a product into a single annual household policy with one premium, one bill, one policy deductible and one renewal date.  Broad coverage options include features such as enhanced home replacement with a cash-out option should the insured decide not to rebuild, additional living expense coverage with no specific time or dollar limit, water-sewer back up coverage, an unlimited accident forgiveness feature and roadside assistance.

On November 28, 2016, we announced an agreement to acquire SquareTrade Holding Company, Inc. (“SquareTrade”), a consumer product protection plan provider that distributes through many of America’s major retailers.  Known for its exceptional service, SquareTrade provides protection plans for consumer appliances and electronics, such as TVs, smartphones and computers.  This will broaden Allstate’s product offerings to better meet consumers’ needs.  The transaction closed on January 3, 2017.

Geographic Markets

The Company’s principal geographic markets for auto, homeowners, and other personal property and casualty products are in the United States.  Through various subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell a variety of personal property and casualty insurance products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.  We also sell personal property and casualty insurance products in Canada.

The following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of premiums earned for the Allstate Protection segment for 2016, based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments.  No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of the premiums earned for the segment.

Texas11.1%California9.4New York8.9Florida7.2

Additional Information

Information regarding the last three years’ revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Protection segment is contained in Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements.  Note 19 also includes information regarding the last three years’ identifiable assets attributable to our property-liability operations, which includes our Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments.  Note 19 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.

Information regarding the amount of premium earned for Allstate Protection segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II, Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in the table regarding premiums earned by brand.  That table is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.










ALLSTATE FINANCIAL SEGMENT

Products and Distribution

Our Allstate Financial segment sells traditional, interest-sensitive and variable life insurance and voluntary accident and health insurance products.  We previously offered and continue to have in force fixed annuities such as deferred and immediate annuities.  We sell Allstate Financial products through Allstate exclusive agencies and approximately 1,000 exclusive financial specialists, and 6,000 workplace enrolling independent agents.  The majority of life insurance business written involves exclusive financial specialists, including referrals from exclusive agencies and licensed sales professionals.  The table below lists our current distribution channels with the associated products and target customers.

Distribution ChannelsProprietary ProductsTarget CustomersAllstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialistsTerm life insuranceCustomers who prefer local personalized advice and service and are brand-sensitiveWhole life insuranceInterest-sensitive life insuranceVariable life insuranceWorkplace enrolling independent agentsAllstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialistsWorkplace life and voluntary accident and health insurance:Middle market consumers with family financial protection needs employed by small, medium, and large size firmsInterest-sensitive and term life insuranceDisability income insuranceCancer, accident, critical illness and heart/stroke insuranceHospital indemnityDental insurance

Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists also sell non-proprietary retirement and investment products, including mutual funds, fixed and variable annuities, disability insurance, and long-term care insurance to provide a broad suite of protection and retirement products.  As of December 31, 2016, Allstate agencies had approximately $14.1 billion of non-proprietary mutual funds and fixed and variable annuity account balances under management.  New and additional deposits into these non-proprietary products were $1.9 billion in 2016.

Competition

We compete on a wide variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength and ratings, price, distribution and the level of customer service.  The market for life insurance continues to be highly fragmented and competitive.  As of December 31, 2015, there were approximately 380 groups of life insurance companies in the United States, most of which offered one or more similar products.  According to A.M. Best, as of December 31, 2015, the Allstate Financial segment is the nation’s 18thlargest issuer of life insurance and related business on the basis of 2015 ordinary life insurance in force and 31stlargest on the basis of 2015 statutory admitted assets.

The market for voluntary benefits is growing as employers seek to shift benefit costs to employees.  Favorable industry and economic trends have increased competitive pressure and attracted new traditional and non-traditional entrants to the voluntary benefits market.  Recent entrants, including large group medical and life insurance carriers, are leveraging core benefit capabilities by bundling and discounting to capture voluntary market share.  Allstate will need to continue strengthening its value proposition and add new capabilities to maintain its strong leadership position in voluntary benefits.

Geographic Markets

We sell life insurance and voluntary accident and health insurance throughout the United States.  Through subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell various types of these products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam.  We also sell voluntary accident and health insurance in Canada.

The following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of direct statutory premiums and annuity considerations for the Allstate Financial segment for 2016, based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments.  Direct statutory premiums and annuity considerations exclude reinsurance assumed.  No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of the direct statutory premiums and annuity considerations.

New York10.8%Texas10.1Florida9.9California6.5








Additional Information

Information regarding revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Financial segment for the last three years is contained in Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements.  Note 19 also includes information regarding identifiable assets attributable to the Allstate Financial segment for the last three years.  Note 19 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.

Information regarding premiums and contract charges for Allstate Financial segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II, Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in the table that summarizes premiums and contract charges by product.  That table is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.



ALLSTATE AGENCIES

Allstate exclusive agencies offer products targeted to consumers that prefer local personalized advice and branded products from both the Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial segments.  They offer Allstate brand auto and homeowners insurance policies; specialty auto products including motorcycle, trailer, motor home and off-road vehicle insurance policies; other personal lines products including renter, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella and manufactured home insurance policies; commercial lines products for small business owners; and roadside assistance products.  Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists offer various life insurance products, as well as voluntary accident and health insurance products.  In addition, arrangements made with other companies, agencies, and brokers allow Allstate exclusive agencies the ability to make available non-proprietary products to consumers when an Allstate product is not available.

In the U.S., Allstate brand products are sold in approximately 10,200 locations through approximately 34,160 licensed producers including approximately 10,360 Allstate exclusive agencies employing approximately 23,800 licensed sales professionals, who are licensed to sell our products.  We also offer these products through approximately 2,200 independent agencies in primarily rural areas in the U.S.  All Allstate brand customers who purchase their policies directly through contact centers and the internet, currently less than 7% of new business, are provided an Allstate agency relationship at the time of purchase.  In Canada, we offer Allstate brand products through approximately 870 producers working in five provinces across the country (Ontario, Quebec, Alberta, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia).

Trusted AdvisorIn 2016, we continued to focus on a multi-year effort to position exclusive agents, licensed sales professionals and exclusive financial specialists to serve customers as trusted advisors.  Being a trusted advisor means that our agencies:

•Have a local presence that instills confidence;

•Know their customers and understand the unique needs of their households;

•Help them assess the potential risks they face;

•Provide local expertise and personalized guidance on how to protect what matters most to them by offering customized solutions; and

•Support them when they have changes in their lives and during their times of need.

To ensure agencies have the resources, capacity, and support needed to serve customers at this level, we are deploying education and support focused on relationship initiation and insurance and retirement expertise and are continuing efforts to enhance agency capabilities with customer-centric technology while simplifying and automating service processes to enable agencies to focus more time in an advisory role.

Allstate exclusive agencies engage with exclusive financial specialists through a partnership agreement, which documents common business goals and commitments to deliver customer solutions for life and retirement products.  Exclusive agencies utilize an exclusive financial specialist for their expertise with advanced life and retirement cases and other financial needs of customers.  Successful partnerships will assist agencies with building stronger and deeper customer relationships and increased compensation.

We support our exclusive agencies in a variety of ways to facilitate customer service and Allstate’s overall growth strategy.  For example, we offer assistance with marketing, sales, service and business processes and provide education and other resources to help them acquire more business and retain more customers.  Our programs support exclusive agencies and help them grow by offering financing to acquire other agencies and awarding additional resources to better performing agencies.  We support our relationship with Allstate exclusive agencies through several national and regional working groups:

•The Agency Executive Council engages exclusive agencies on our customer service and growth strategies.  Membership includes approximately 14 Allstate exclusive agency owners selected on the basis of performance, thought leadership and credibility among their peer group.








•The National Advisory Board brings together Allstate’s senior leadership and a cross section of Allstate exclusive agents and exclusive financial specialists from around the country to address national business issues and develop solutions.

•Regional Advisory Boards support Allstate exclusive agency owner engagement within each of Allstate’s 15 regional offices in the U.S. and within Canada.

The compensation structure for Allstate exclusive agencies rewards agencies for delivering high value to our customers and achieving certain business outcomes such as product profitability, net growth and household penetration.  Allstate exclusive agent remuneration comprises a base commission (Property-Liability and Allstate Financial products), variable compensation and a bonus.  Variable compensation consists of three components: agency success factors (Allstate Financial insurance policies sold and licensed staff), which must be achieved in order to qualify for the second and third components, customer satisfaction and Allstate Financial insurance policies sold relative to the size of the agency.  A bonus, based on a percentage of premiums can be earned by agents who achieve a targeted loss ratio and a defined amount of Allstate Financial sales.  The bonus is earned by achieving a targeted percentage of multi-category households (customers with policies purchased through an Allstate agent in at least two of the following product categories: vehicle, personal property, or life and retirement) and increases in Allstate Protection (Allstate brand) and Allstate Financial policies in force.  In addition, through arrangements made with other companies, agencies, and brokers, Allstate exclusive agencies have the ability to earn commissions on non-proprietary products provided to consumers when an Allstate product is not available.

Allstate independent agent remuneration comprises a base commission (Property-Liability products) and a bonus which can be earned by agents who achieve a target loss ratio.  The bonus, which is a percentage of premiums, is earned by achieving a targeted percentage of multi-category households (customers with Allstate policies in at least two of the following product categories: vehicle, personal property or life and retirement) and increased Allstate Protection (Allstate brand) net written premium above a minimum threshold.  Other elements of independent agency compensation and support include marketing support payments, national and regional promotions and recognition trips based on achievement.  There are no significant changes to the compensation framework planned for 2017.

Allstate employs field sales leaders who are responsible for recruiting and retaining Allstate agents and helping them grow their business and profitability.  The field sales leaders’ compensation is aligned with agency success and includes a bonus based on the level of agent remuneration described above and agency geographic footprint.



OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.  Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements contains information regarding the revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our Corporate and Other segment over the last three years.

Our Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from property-liability insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for certain commercial and other businesses in run-off.  Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is presented in this segment.  Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements contains information for the last three years regarding revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our property-liability operations, which includes both our Allstate Protection and our Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments.  Note 19 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.












REGULATION

Allstate is subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level.  The method, extent, and substance of such regulation varies by state but generally has its source in statutes that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and that delegate regulatory authority to a state agency.  These rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters, including insurer solvency and statutory surplus sufficiency, reserve adequacy, insurance company licensing and examination, agent and adjuster licensing, policy forms, rate setting, the nature and amount of investments, claims practices, participation in shared markets and guaranty funds, transactions with affiliates, the payment of dividends, underwriting standards, statutory accounting methods, trade practices, corporate governance and risk management.  Some of these matters are discussed in more detail below.  In addition, state legislators and insurance regulators continue to examine the appropriate nature and scope of state insurance regulation.  For a discussion of statutory financial information, see Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements.  For a discussion of regulatory contingencies, see Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements.  Notes 14 and 16 are incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.

As part of an effort to strengthen the regulation of the financial services market, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) was enacted in 2010.  Dodd-Frank created the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”).  The FIO monitors the insurance industry, provides advice to the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), represents the U.S. on international insurance matters, and studies the current regulatory system.

Additional regulations or new requirements may emerge from activities of various regulatory entities, including the Federal Reserve Board, FIO, FSOC, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), and the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”), that are evaluating solvency and capital standards for insurance company groups.  In addition, the NAIC has adopted amendments to its model holding company law, which have been adopted by some jurisdictions.  The outcome of these actions is uncertain; however, these actions may result in an increase in the level of capital and liquidity required by insurance holding companies.  Additional discussion of Dodd-Frank appears later in this section.

We cannot predict whether any specific state or federal measures will be adopted to change the nature or scope of the regulation of insurance or what effect any such measures would have on Allstate.  We are working for changes in the regulatory environment to make insurance more available and affordable for customers, encourage market innovation, improve driving safety, strengthen cybersecurity, and promote better catastrophe preparedness and loss mitigation.

Agent and Broker Compensation.In recent years, several states considered new legislation or regulations regarding the compensation of agents and brokers by insurance companies.  The proposals ranged in nature from new disclosure requirements to new duties on insurance agents and brokers in dealing with customers.  New York requires the disclosure of certain information concerning agent and broker compensation.

Limitations on Dividends By Insurance Subsidiaries.As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own, The Allstate Corporation relies on dividends from Allstate Insurance Company as one of the principal sources of cash to pay dividends and to meet its obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on debt or to fund non-insurance related businesses.  Allstate Insurance Company is regulated as an insurance company in Illinois and its ability to pay dividends is restricted by Illinois law.  For additional information regarding those restrictions, see Part II, Item 5 of this report.  The laws of the other jurisdictions that generally govern our other insurance subsidiaries contain similar limitations on the payment of dividends and in some jurisdictions the laws may be more restrictive.

Insurance Holding Company Regulation – Change of Control.










Rate Regulation.Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring personal property and casualty insurers to file rating plans, policy or coverage forms, and other information with the state’s regulatory authority.  In many cases, such rating plans, policy forms, or both must be approved prior to use.

The speed with which an insurer can change rates in response to competition or in response to increasing costs depends, in part, on whether the rating laws are (i) prior approval, (ii) file-and-use, or (iii) use-and-file laws.  In states having prior approval laws, the regulator must approve a rate before the insurer may use it.  In states having file-and-use laws, the insurer does not have to wait for the regulator’s approval to use a rate, but the rate must be filed with the regulatory authority prior to being used.  A use-and-file law requires an insurer to file rates within a certain period of time after the insurer begins using them.  Eighteen states, including California and New York, have prior approval laws.  Under all three types of rating laws, the regulator has the authority to disapprove a rate filing.

An insurer’s ability to adjust its rates in response to competition or to changing costs is dependent on an insurer’s ability to demonstrate to the regulator that its rates or proposed rating plan meets the requirements of the rating laws.  In those states that significantly restrict an insurer’s discretion in selecting the business that it wants to underwrite, an insurer can manage its risk of loss by charging a rate that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance.  In those states that significantly restrict an insurer’s ability to charge a rate that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance, the insurer can manage its risk of loss by being more selective in the type of business it underwrites.  When a state significantly restricts both underwriting and pricing, it becomes more difficult for an insurer to maintain its profitability.

From time to time, the personal lines insurance industry comes under pressure from state regulators, legislators, and special interest groups to reduce, freeze, or set rates at levels that do not correspond with our analysis of underlying costs, catastrophe loss exposure, and expenses.  We expect this kind of pressure to persist.  Allstate and other insurers are using increasingly sophisticated pricing models and rating plans that are reviewed by regulators and special interest groups.  State regulators may interpret existing law or rely on future legislation or regulations to impose new restrictions that adversely affect profitability or growth.  We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative and regulatory measures regarding rating.

Involuntary Markets.As a condition of maintaining our licenses to write personal property and casualty insurance in various states, we are required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations that provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers.  Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to our results of operations.

Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association.The Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association (“MCCA”) is a mandatory insurance coverage and reinsurance indemnification mechanism for personal injury protection losses that provides indemnification for losses over a retention level that increases every other MCCA fiscal year by the lesser of 6% or the increase in the Consumer Price Index.  It operates similar to a reinsurance program and is funded by participating member companies (companies actively writing motor vehicle coverage in Michigan) through a per vehicle annual assessment that is currently $160 for automobiles.  This assessment is incurred by the Company as policies are written and recovered as a component of premiums from our customers.  The participating company retention level will be $555 thousand per claim for the fiscal two-years ending June 30, 2019 compared to $545 thousand per claim for the fiscal two-years ending June 30, 2017.

New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty Association.The New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty Association (“PLIGA”) provides reimbursement to insurers for the medical benefits portion of personal injury protection coverage paid in excess of $75,000 with no limits for policies issued or renewed prior to January 1, 1991, and paid in excess of $75,000 and capped at $250,000 for policies issued or renewed from January 1, 1991 to December 31, 2004.  As the statutory administrator of the New Jersey Unsatisfied Claim and Judgment Fund (“UCJF”), PLIGA also provides compensation to qualified claimants for










personal injury protection, bodily injury, or death caused by private passenger automobiles operated by uninsured or “hit and run” drivers.  The UCJF also provides private passenger stranger pedestrian personal injury protection benefits when no other coverage is available.  A significant portion of the incurred claim reserves and the recoverable can be attributed to a small number of catastrophic claims.  PLIGA annually assesses all admitted property and casualty insurers writing motor vehicle liability insurance in New Jersey for direct PLIGA expenses and UCJF reimbursements and expenses.  No insurer may be assessed in any year an amount greater than 2% of that insurer’s net direct written premiums.  It has been the practice of the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance to issue a recoupment order allowing insurance companies to recover the assessment from the Company’s customers over a reasonable period of time.  As of December 31, 2015, PLIGA had a surplus of $279 million.  We do not anticipate any material adverse financial impact from PLIGA or the UCJF on Allstate.

Guaranty Funds.Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in order to cover certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies.  We do not anticipate any material adverse financial impact on Allstate from these assessments.

National Flood Insurance Program.

Investment Regulation.Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that require investment portfolio diversification and that limit the amount of investment in certain categories.  Failure to comply with these rules leads to the treatment of non-conforming investments as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus.  Further, in some instances, these rules require divestiture of non-conforming investments.

Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Non-Renewing Policies.Most states regulate an insurer’s ability to exit a market.  For example, states may limit, to varying degrees, an insurer’s ability to cancel and non-renew policies.  Some states restrict or prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department.  Regulations that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject withdrawal plans to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer’s ability to exit unprofitable markets.

Variable Life Insurance and Registered Fixed Annuities.The sale and administration of variable life insurance and registered fixed annuities with market value adjustment features are subject to extensive regulatory oversight at the federal and state level, including regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”).

Broker-Dealers, Investment Advisors, and Investment Companies.










Allstate is expected to be immaterial.  Compliance of certain components of the rule is required by April 10, 2017 and full compliance is required by January 1, 2018.  On February 3, 2017, the President of the United States executed a memorandum directing the DOL to examine the fiduciary duty rule to determine whether it might adversely affect the ability of Americans to gain access to retirement information and financial advice.  The outcome of the DOL’s examination of the rule is yet to be determined but could result in a delay in the compliance dates or changes to the rule’s requirements.

Dodd-Frank.The Secretary of the Treasury (operating through FIO) and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) are jointly authorized, pursuant to Dodd-Frank, to negotiate a Covered Agreement with one or more foreign governments, authorities, or regulatory entities.  A Covered Agreement is a written bilateral or multilateral agreement that “relates to the recognition of prudential measures with respect to the business of insurance or reinsurance that achieves a level of protection for insurance or reinsurance consumers that is substantially equivalent to the level of protection achieved under State insurance or reinsurance regulation.”  A Covered Agreement becomes effective 90 days after the Secretary of the Treasury and USTR jointly submit a final agreement to the House Financial Services, House Ways and Means, Senate Banking, and Senate Finance committees.  The House and Senate committees are not required to vote on the Covered Agreement for it to become effective.  As provided in Dodd-Frank, a Covered Agreement cannot preempt (i.e., displace) state insurance measures that govern an insurer’s rates, premiums, underwriting or sales practices; any state insurance coverage requirements; the application of antitrust laws of any state to the business of insurance; or any state insurance measure governing insurer capital or solvency, except where a state insurance measure results in less favorable treatment of a non-U.S. insurer than a U.S. insurer.

In November 2015, pursuant to Dodd-Frank, Treasury and USTR notified Congress that they were formally initiating negotiations on a Covered Agreement with the European Union (“EU”) (the “Covered Agreement”) addressing: permanent equivalence treatment of the U.S. regulatory system by the EU; confidential sharing of information across jurisdictions; and uniform treatment of EU-based reinsurers operating in the U.S., including with respect to reinsurance collateral.  On January 13, 2017, the Secretary of the Treasury and USTR jointly submitted a Covered Agreement consistent with their November 2015 notification to Congress.  Once effective, the Covered Agreement is designed to secure equivalence treatment of the U.S. regulatory system by the EU, addresses the confidential sharing of information by regulators across jurisdictions, and eliminate reinsurance collateral requirements for EU-based foreign reinsurers in all States that meet certain conditions.  In accordance with authorities provided in Dodd-Frank, the Covered Agreement may preempt (i.e., displace) state laws after 60 months from its effective date if then existing State insurance measures affected by the Covered Agreement result in less favorable treatment of an EU insurer or reinsurer subject to the Covered Agreement than a U.S. insurer domiciled, licensed, or otherwise admitted in a U.S. State.

Prior to the Secretary of the Treasury and the USTR submitting the Covered Agreement to Congress, the NAIC had amended its Credit for Reinsurance Model Law and Regulation in 2011 (“Revised Reinsurance Model Law”), and statutory enactments implementing the amendments have been passed in 35 states.  The amendments establish a new category of “certified reinsurers,” allowing domestic insurers to receive statutory capital credit for reinsurance ceded to certified reinsurers absent the reinsurers fully collateralizing their assumed reinsurance obligations.  Under the NAIC’s regulatory scheme preceding the Revised Reinsurance Model Law, which remains in effect in Illinois, domestic ceding companies are not allowed to take statutory capital credit for reserves ceded to unauthorized reinsurers unless the insurer withholds funds due to the reinsurer in an amount equal to the reserves, obtains a letter of credit on behalf of the unauthorized reinsurer equal to the amount of the reserves, or is the beneficiary of a credit for reinsurance trust with assets equal to the amount of the reserves.

The terms of the Covered Agreement provide states with 60 months from the effective date of the Covered Agreement to modify their state-based regulatory requirements to comply with the terms of the Covered Agreement.  In accordance with the terms of the Covered Agreement, and consistent with the authorities set forth in Dodd-Frank, after 42 months from the effective date of the Covered Agreement, the U.S. is to begin a process of notifying states of potential preemption for any state insurance measure that is inconsistent with the terms of the Covered Agreement.  After 60 months from the effective date of the Covered Agreement, the U.S. is to complete any preemption determinations with respect to any U.S. State insurance measures subject to evaluation.

On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which they voted to leave the EU.  Following the vote, the U.K. is developing a formal plan for withdrawal under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty that is expected to commence as early as March of 2017.  If the British Parliament authorizes the initiation of Brexit discussions in March 2017 pursuant to Article 50, withdrawal is expected to be completed during 2019.  Article 50 provides only for the negotiation of a withdrawal arrangement but does not address future relationships between the U.K. and EU.  Upon exiting the EU, the U.K. insurance market will no longer be in the scope of the Covered Agreement.

Federal Reserve Board.In June 2016, the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking soliciting comments on two separate capital framework proposals developed for insurance groups designated as systemically important financial institutions (“SIFI”) and insurance companies that own insured depository institutions (“IDIs”).  As of December 31, 2016, we are not designated as a SIFI and do not own an IDI.  The proposals at a very high level describe how capital and financial risk could be measured.  The capital proposal applicable to insurance IDIs uses a Building Block Approach (“BBA”).










The BBA uses, as a starting point, available and required capital obtained from existing regulatory frameworks, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Risk-Based Capital, developed from financial statements constructed using Statutory Accounting Principles (“SAP”) and applies a Basel-like approach to remaining assets not covered by a specific regulatory framework.  The proposed capital framework applicable to SIFI’s would be a Consolidated Approach, which would rely on a new risk-based framework to be applied to consolidated U.S. GAAP based financial measures.

While the proposed application of the SIFI proposal is limited, the potential implication of its wider application could be significant.  Most insurance groups, including those that currently prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, typically do not develop audited U.S. GAAP financial statements for all domestic and international insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries.  The current Consolidated Approach proposal as communicated does not require insurance companies, subject to the framework, to prepare U.S. GAAP financial statements for their underlying subsidiaries.  However, any change to the final rule, which requires application of risk-based capital requirements to audited U.S. GAAP financial statements at the subsidiary level would require the preparation of U.S. GAAP financial statements.  This could create significant incremental costs to maintain audited financial statements and maintenance of regulatory capital computations for subsidiaries on both a U.S. GAAP and SAP basis.  The FRB proposals remain in the development stage and their final form, content, and applicability of the framework(s) may be significantly different from the current proposals.

Privacy Regulation.Federal law and the laws of many states require financial institutions to protect the security and confidentiality of customer information and to notify customers about their policies and practices relating to collection and disclosure of customer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information.  Federal law and the laws of many states also regulate disclosures and disposal of customer information.  Congress, state legislatures, and regulatory authorities are expected to consider additional regulation relating to privacy and other aspects of customer information.

Asbestos.Congress has considered legislation to address asbestos claims and litigation in the past, and during the last Congress, the House of Representatives passed the Furthering Asbestos Claims Transparency Act.  The Act is designed to enable asbestos trust funds to pay only those who are entitled by law to compensation from the funds.  The Act failed to move in the Senate.  The Act must now be re-introduced in the new Congress to be considered by either the House or Senate.  We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative measures regarding asbestos.

Environmental.



INTERNET WEBSITE

Our Internet website address is allstate.com.  The Allstate Corporation’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to such reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on the Investor Relations section of our website (www.allstateinvestors.com), free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the SEC.  In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Succession Committee, Executive Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, and Risk and Return Committee are available on the Investor Relations section of our website and in print to any stockholder who requests copies by contacting Investor Relations, The Allstate Corporation, 2775 Sanders Road, Northbrook, Illinois 60062-6127, 1-847-402-2800.  The information found on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document filed with the SEC.










OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT ALLSTATE

As of December 31, 2016, Allstate had approximately 43,050 full-time employees and 450 part-time employees.

Allstate continues to explore and invest in innovative solutions for the consumer and to expand its use of global resources, including business process and information technology operations in India and Northern Ireland.

Information regarding revenues generated outside of the United States is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference to Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements.

Allstate’s four business segments use shared services, including human resources, investment, finance, information technology and legal services, provided by Allstate Insurance Company and other affiliates.

Although the insurance business generally is not seasonal, claims and claims expense for the Allstate Protection segment tend to be higher for periods of severe or inclement weather.

“Allstate” is a very well-recognized brand name in the United States.  We use the names “Allstate,” “Esurance,” “Encompass” and “Answer Financial” extensively in our business, along with related service marks, logos, and slogans, such as “Good Hands®.”  Our rights in the United States to these names, service marks, logos, and slogans continue so long as we continue to use them in commerce.  Many service marks used by Allstate are the subject of renewable U.S. and/or foreign service mark registrations.  We believe that these service marks are important to our business and we intend to maintain our rights to them.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names of our executive officers, their ages as of February 1,2017, their positions, and the years of their first election as officers. “AIC” refers to Allstate Insurance Company.

NameAgePosition/OfficesYear FirstElectedOfficerThomas J. Wilson59Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC.1995Don Civgin55President, Emerging Businesses of AIC.2008Mary Jane Fortin52President, Allstate Financial of AIC.2015Sanjay Gupta48Executive Vice President, Marketing, Innovation and Corporate Relations of AIC.2012Suren Gupta55Executive Vice President, Enterprise Technology and Strategic Ventures of AIC.2011Harriet K. Harty50Executive Vice President, Human Resources of AIC.2012Susan L. Lees59Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC (Chief Legal Officer).2008Samuel H. Pilch70Senior Group Vice President and Controller of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC.1996Steven E. Shebik60Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC.1999Matthew E. Winter60President of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC.2009

Each of the officers named above may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the board of directors of the relevant company.

Messrs. Wilson, Civgin, Suren Gupta, Pilch, Shebik and Winter, and Mses. Harty and Lees have held the listed positions for at least the last five years or have served Allstate in various executive or administrative capacities for at least five years.

Prior to joining Allstate in 2015, Ms. Fortin served as Chief Financial Officer of AIG’s Consumer Insurance business from 2012 to 2015 and President and CEO of American General Life Insurance Company from 2009 to 2012.

Prior to joining Allstate in 2012, Mr. Sanjay Gupta served as Chief Marketing Officer of Ally Financial from 2008 to 2012 and Senior Vice President of Global Consumer and Small Business Marketing at Bank of America from 2001 to 2008.



Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains “forward-looking statements” that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty.  These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may be identified by their use of words like “plans,” “seeks,” “expects,” “will,” “should,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “believes,” “likely,” “targets” and other words with similar meanings.  These statements may address, among other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe exposure management, product development, investment results, regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results,








litigation and reserves.  We believe that these statements are based on reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.  In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks or uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those communicated in these forward-looking statements.  These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Part 1, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report and those described from time to time in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.



