Item 1.  Business

The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992 to serve as the holding company for Allstate Insurance Company.  Its business is conducted principally through Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company and other subsidiaries (collectively, including The Allstate Corporation, “Allstate”).  Allstate is primarily engaged in the property and casualty insurance business and the sale of life and accident and health insurance products in the United States and Canada.The Allstate Corporation is the largest publicly held personal lines insurer in the United States.  Allstate’s strategy is to serve distinct customer segments with differentiated offerings.  The Allstate brand is widely known through the “You’re In Good Hands With Allstate®” slogan.  Allstate is the 2ndlargest personal property and casualty insurer in the United States on the basis of 2016 statutory direct premiums written according to A.M. Best.In addition, according to A.M. Best, Allstate is the nation’s 19thlargest issuer of life insurance business on



the basis of 2016 ordinary life insurance in force and 36thlargest on the basis of 2016 statutory admitted assets.  In this annual report on Form 10-K, we occasionally refer to statutory financial information.  All domestic United States insurance companies are required to prepare statutory-basis financial statements.  As a result, industry data is available that enables comparisons between insurance companies, including competitors that are not required to prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).  We frequently use industry publications containing statutory financial information to assess our competitive position.To achieve its goals in2018, Allstate is focused on the following priorities:•Better serve our customers•Achieve target economic returns on capital•Grow customer base•Proactively manage investments•Build long-term growth platforms



Segment Information

We evaluate performance and make resource and capital decisions across seven reportable segments.





Reportable segments

Allstate Protection(1)Includes the Allstate, Encompass and Esurance brands and Answer Financial.  Offers private passenger auto, homeowners, other personal lines and small commercial insurance products through agencies and directly through contact centers and the internet.

Service BusinessesIncludes SquareTrade, Arity, Allstate Roadside Services and Allstate Dealer Services, which offer a broad range of products and services that expand and enhance our customer value propositions.

Allstate LifeOffers traditional, interest-sensitive and variable life insurance products through Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists.

Allstate BenefitsOffers voluntary benefits products, including life, accident, critical illness, short-term disability and other health products sold through workplace enrolling independent agents and Allstate exclusive agencies.

Allstate AnnuitiesConsists of deferred fixed annuities and immediate fixed annuities (including standard and sub-standard structured settlements) in run-off.  We exited the sale of annuities over an eight year period from 2006 to 2014.  In 2006, we disposed of substantially all of the variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements.

Discontinued Lines and Coverages(1)Relates to property and casualty insurance policies primarily written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s.  Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims arises from direct excess commercial insurance, assumed reinsurance coverage, direct primary commercial insurance and other businesses in run-off.

Corporate and OtherIncludes holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.

(1)Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments comprise Property-Liability.

To conform to the current year presentation, certain amounts in the prior years’ financial information have been updated to reflect changes in reportable segments.  See Notes 1, 2 and 4 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information on changes in reportable segments.





The Allstate Corporation1





2017 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Allstate Protection Segment

Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for 91% of Allstate’s2017consolidated insurance premiums and contract charges.  In this segment, weprincipally offer consumer private passenger auto, homeowners, and other personal lines insurance products through agencies and directly through contact centers and the internet.  Our strategy is to position our product offerings and distribution channels to meet customers’ evolving needs and effectively address the risks they face.

Allstate Protection has four market-facing businesses with products and services that cater to different customer preferences for advice and brand recognition to improve our competitive position and performance.



Strategy

We serve all four consumer segments with unique products and value propositions, while leveraging our claims, pricing and operational capabilities.Allstate brand strategyOur strategy is to grow by positioning Allstate exclusive agencies as trusted advisors to customers and leveraging best-in-class operational capabilities.Our target customers prefer to purchase multiple products from one insurance provider, including auto, homeowners, life insurance and financial products.  The Allstate brand differentiates itself by offering comprehensive product options and features through agencies that provide local advice and service, including a partnership with exclusive financial specialists to deliver life and retirement solutions.GrowthWe are expanding distribution by strategically increasing the number of agency owners and licensed sales professionalsbased on market opportunities with a focus on penetrating underserved markets.  We utilize targeted marketing, with messaging that communicates the value of our Good Hands®,the importance of having proper coverage, product options, and the ease of doing business with Allstate and our exclusive agencies.Broader Customer RelationshipsOur trusted advisor initiative is a critical component to creating broader relationships by positioning agents, licensed sales professionals and exclusive financial specialists to better know their customers and their unique



protection needs.  Being a trusted advisor means that our agencies:•Have a local presence that instills confidence•Know their customers and understand the unique needs of their households•Help our customers assess the potential risks they face•Provide local expertise and personalized guidance on how to protect what matters most to customers by offering customized solutions•Support customers when they have changes in their lives and during their times of needAllstate exclusive agencies offer life and retirement solutions and can engage with exclusive financial specialists who provide expertise with advanced life and retirement cases and other financial needs of our customers.We support our exclusive agencies and financial specialists, through marketing assistance, service and business processes, education, offering financing to grow their businesses and other resources to help them enhance the customer experience and to acquire and retain more customers.We utilize the Net Promoter Score to measure how we serve our customers and how likely our customers are to recommend Allstate.  It brings together customer survey data from our brands including Allstate, Esurance, and Encompass along withSquareTradeand Allstate Roadside Services included in our Services Businesses segment.  The score is



2www.allstate.com



Item 1. Business2017 Form 10-K



calculated by weighting the net written premium contribution of each business to the overall enterprise, with the Allstate brand comprising approximately 90% of the score.  The Net Promoter Score improved 1.6 points during 2017, with Allstate brand, Esurance and SquareTrade all showing improvements.

Exclusive Agency Compensation StructureThe compensation structure for Allstate exclusive agencies rewards agencies for delivering high value to customers and achieving certain business outcomes such as product profitability, net growth and household penetration.  Allstate exclusive agent remuneration comprises a base commission, variable compensation and a bonus.

•Variable compensation includes factors such as customer satisfaction and life insurance and retirement policies sold relative to the size of the agency.

•Bonus compensation is based on a percentage of premiums and can be earned by agents who are meeting certain sales goals and selling additional policies to meet customer needs profitably.

Allstate exclusive agencies have the ability to earn commissions and additional bonuses on non-proprietary products provided to consumers when an Allstate product is not available.

Allstate exclusive financial specialists receive commissions for proprietary and non-proprietary sales and earn a bonus based on the volume of business produced with Allstate exclusive agents.

Allstate independent agent remuneration comprises a base commission and a bonus that can be earned by agents who achieve a target loss ratio.

Best-in-class Operational CapabilitiesWe are actively focusing on enhancing the customer experience through the following strategic efforts:

•Improve our core operations is focused on enhanced loss cost management, expense control and customer experience.  To achieve this, we are continuing to modernize our operating platform (including enhanced digital capabilities), improving estimating accuracy and optimizing vendor relationships.

•Invest in our foundation is focused on leveraging operational efficiency, mitigating risk, quality assurance and a continued pursuit to automate and simplify processes.  To achieve this, we are investing in long-term growth platforms, leveraging continuous improvement, enabling consistent data and metrics, and modernizing claims handling through digitization.

•Lead into our future is focused on leveraging emerging technologies and predictive analytics to simplify the customer experience and expedite the claims process.  To achieve this, we have opened several Digital Operating Centers to handle auto claims countrywide utilizing our virtual estimation capabilities, which includes estimating damage through photos and video with the use of



QuickFoto Claim®and Virtual AssistSM(video chat technology used to review supplemental damage with auto body shops).  We are assessing wind and hail property claims using drones, piloted airplanes and satellite imagery.

Esurance strategy

Our strategy is to drive higher growth across all lines of business, improve our competitive position, maintain focus on expense management, and increase retention through investments in processes and operations to improve the customer experience.To best serve our self-directed customers we:

•Offer a seamless online and mobile experience.

•Provide hassle-free purchases and claims processing using regionalized call centers and intuitive tools.

•Offer a broad suite of protection products and solutions to our customers.

•Offer innovative product options and features.

Encompass strategy

Our strategy is to expand the agent footprint, geographic diversification, enhance pricing and underwriting sophistication and operational excellence in underwriting and claims processes.  Over the past several years, Encompass has been executing on a profit improvement plan emphasizing pricing, governance and operational improvements at both the state and countrywide level.  These actions have improved underlying profitability but led to a reduction of policies in force, new issued applications, and the renewal ratio compared to prior years for both auto and homeowners.

While profit improvement actions continue in many markets, targeted growth plans are in place for states with sustainable profitability trends and long-term growth potential.  We are also focused on growing our independent agency distribution partners who understand the value of our products.

Answer Financial strategy

Our strategy as a technology-enabled insurance agency is to provide comparison shopping and related services for businesses, offering customers choice, convenience and ease of use.

Allstate Protection Pricing and Risk Management Strategies

Our pricing and underwriting strategies and decisions are designed to generate sustainable profitable growth.

Our proprietary database of underwriting and pricing experience enables sophisticated pricing algorithms and methodologies to more accurately price risks while also seeking to attract and retain customers in multiple risk segments.

•For auto insurance, risk evaluation factors can include, but are not limited to, vehicle make, model and year; driver age and marital status; territory;



The Allstate Corporation3



2017 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



years licensed; loss history; years insured with prior carrier; prior liability limits; prior lapse in coverage; and insurance scoring utilizing telematics data and certain consumer report information.

•For property insurance, risk evaluation factors can include, but are not limited to, the amount of insurance purchased; geographic location of the property; loss history; age, condition and construction characteristics of the property; and characteristics of the insured including insurance scoring utilizing certain consumer report information.

A combination of underwriting information, pricing and discounts are also used to achieve a more competitive position and growth.  Our pricing strategy involves local marketplace pricing and underwriting decisions that are based on these risk evaluation factors and an evaluation of competitors to the extent permissible by applicable law.

Pricing of property products is intended to establish risk-adjusted returns that are acceptable over a long-term period.

We pursue rate increases to keep pace with loss trends, including losses from catastrophic events and those that are weather-related (such as wind, hail, lightning and freeze not meeting our criteria to be declared a catastrophe).  We also take into consideration potential customer disruption, the impact on our ability to market our auto and homeowners lines, regulatory limitations, our competitive position and profitability.

Therefore, in any reporting period, loss experience from catastrophic events and weather-related losses may contribute to negative or positive underwriting



performance relative to the expectations we incorporated into product pricing.

We manage our property catastrophe exposure with the goal of providing shareholders an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce the variability of our earnings.  Our property business includes personal homeowners, commercial property and other property insurance lines.  As of December 31, 2017, we have less than a 1% likelihood of exceeding average annual aggregate catastrophe losses by $2 billion, net of reinsurance, from hurricanes and earthquakes, based on modeled assumptions and applications currently available.  The use of different assumptions and updates to industry models, and updates to our risk transfer program, could materially change the projected loss.  Our growth strategies include areas where we believe we can enhance diversification and earn an appropriate return for the risk and as a result our modeled exposure may increase, but in aggregate remain lower than $2 billion as noted above.  In addition, we have exposure to other severe weather events, which impact catastrophe losses.

Property catastrophe exposure management includes purchasing reinsurance to provide coverage for known exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, fires following earthquakes and other catastrophes.  We are also working to promote measures to prevent and mitigate losses and make homes and communities more resilient, including enactment of stronger building codes and effective enforcement of those codes, adoption of sensible land use policies, and development of effective and affordable methods of improving the resilience of existing structures.

Products and Distribution

Allstate Protection differentiates itself by offering solutions to meet broad-based household protection needs and a comprehensive range of innovative product options and features through distribution channels that best suit each consumer segment.

Insurance productsAllstate brandAutoHomeownersSpecialty auto (motorcycle, trailer, motor home and off-road vehicle)Other personal lines (renters, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella and manufactured home)Commercial linesEsurance brandAutoHomeownersMotorcycleRentersEncompass brandAutoHomeownersOther personal lines (renters, condominium, landlord, boat and umbrella)Answer FinancialComparison quotes for non-proprietary auto, homeowners and other personal lines (condominium, renters, motorcycle, recreational vehicle and boat)



4www.allstate.com



Item 1. Business2017 Form 10-K







Innovative product offerings and features

Allstate brandYour Choice Auto®Qualified customers choose from a variety of options, such as Accident Forgiveness, Deductible Rewards®, Safe Driving Bonus®and New Car Replacement.

Allstate House and Home®Featured options include Claim RateGuard®, Claim-Free Bonus and flexibility in options and coverages, including graduated roof coverage and pricing based on roof type and age for damage related to wind and hail events.

Claim Satisfaction Guarantee®Promised return of premium to standard auto insurance customers dissatisfied with their claims experience.

Drivewise®Telematics-based insurance program, available in 49 states and the District of Columbia as of December 31, 2017, that uses a mobile application or an in-car device to capture driving behaviors and encourage safe driving.  It provides customers with information and tools, incentives and driving challenges.  For example, Allstate Rewards®provides reward points for safe driving.

MilewiseSMUsage-based insurance product, launched in 2016, currently available as a limited market test.  It gives customers flexibility to customize their insurance and pay based on the number of miles they drive.

Esurance brandDriveSense®Telematics-based insurance program, available in 32 states as of December 31, 2017, that uses a mobile application or an in-car device to capture driving behaviors and reward customers for safe driving.

Esurance Pay Per Mile®Usage-based insurance product that gives customers flexibility to customize their insurance and pay based on the number of miles they drive, currently available to a limited market.

Encompass brandEncompassOne Policy®Packaged insurance product with one premium, one bill, one policy deductible and one renewal date.  Broad coverage options include customizable features such as enhanced accident forgiveness, new-car replacement coverage, walk-away home coverage option should the insured decide not to rebuild, flexible additional living expense coverage, water-sewer backup coverage options and roadside assistance.

Answer FinancialStreetWiseTelematics-based driving application available in all 50 states that uses location and motion settings to reward good drivers.

Distribution channelsAllstate brandIn the U.S., we offer products through 10,430 Allstate exclusive agencies, operating in 10,300 locations, supported by 24,800 licensed sales professionals and 1,100 exclusive financial specialists.  We also offer products through 2,400 independent agencies that are primarily in rural areas and through contact centers and online.  In Canada, we offer Allstate brand products through 920 employee producers.Esurance brandSold to customers online, through contact centers or through select agents.Encompass brandDistributed through 2,500 independent agencies.Answer FinancialComparison quotes offered to customers online or through contact centers.

Allstate exclusive agencies also support the Service Businesses, Allstate Life and Allstate Benefits segments through offering roadside assistance, life insurance and voluntary benefits products.

When an Allstate product is not available, we may offer non-proprietary products to consumers through arrangements made with other companies, agencies, and brokers.  As of December 31, 2017, Allstate agencies had approximately $1.4 billion of non-proprietary personal insurance premiums under management, primarily related to property business in hurricane exposed areas, and approximately $210 million of non-proprietary commercial insurance premiums under management.  Additionally, we offer a homeowners product through our subsidiary North Light Specialty Insurance Company in certain areas with higher risk of catastrophes or where customers do not meet our standard underwriting profile.



The Allstate Corporation5



2017 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Competition

The markets for personal lines insurance, which includes private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, are highly competitive.  The following charts provide Allstate Protection’s market share compared to our principal competitors in the U.S. using statutory direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2016, according to A.M. Best.





Esurance is among the top 25 largest providers of personal property and casualty insurance products in the U.S., and Encompass is among the top 20 largest providers of personal property and casualty insurance products through independent agencies in the U.S., based on statutory direct written premium according to A.M. Best for 2016.

Our customer-focused strategy enables us to address changing needs in a targeted manner.This includes different brands, the scope and type of distribution system, price and the breadth of product offerings, product features, customer service, claims handling, and use of technology.

Geographic Markets

Our principal geographic markets are in the U.S.  Through various subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell a variety of personal property and casualty products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada.  The top U.S. geographic markets are reflected below.

Geographic distribution of premiums earned(1) (2)Texas11.6%California9.9New York8.9Florida7.0

(1)Based on 2017 information contained in statements filed

with the state insurance departments.

(2)No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent.





6www.allstate.com





Item 1. Business2017 Form 10-K



Service Businesses Segment

Service Businesses include SquareTrade, Arity, Allstate Roadside Services and Allstate Dealer Services, which offer a broad range of products and services that expand and enhance customer value propositions.  Our strategy is to deliver superior value propositions and build strategic platforms to connect and engage with customers and effectively address their changing needs and preferences.

StrategySquareTrade®Rapidly grow new and existing domestic retail customer accounts and expand internationally while increasing profitability and returns.AritySMBuild a strategic mobility platform that provides data and analytics solutions to insurance customers, consumers and other businesses (including government agencies) on a recurring basis.Allstate Roadside Services®Digitize the roadside assistance business and enhance capabilities to deliver a superior customer experience while lowering costs in the customer assistance centers and optimizing the rescue network.Allstate Dealer Services®Leverage relationships with auto dealerships while improving operational efficiency and profitability.

Products and Distribution





Products and services

SquareTradeA leading and innovative provider of consumer electronics and appliance protection plans, covering products including TVs, smartphones and computers.  Under these protection plans, SquareTrade agrees to repair, replace or indemnify the customer for the cost to repair or replace consumer goods from mechanical or electrical failure due to normal wear and tear after expiration of the term of the original manufacturer’s warranty.  Our protection plans also provide additional coverages beyond the manufacturer’s warranty, and in certain cases, accidental damage from handling.

ArityA connected car technology and data analytics company with offerings including device and mobile data collection services, analytics and customer risk assessment solutions and telematics services.

Allstate Roadside ServicesA leading roadside assistance provider in North America offering towing, jump-start, lockout, fuel delivery, and tire change services to retail customers and customers of our wholesale partners.  Good Hands Rescue®is a 24/7 pay-per-use service offered through a mobile application that connects users to a select network of countrywide providers to assist with emergencies.

Allstate Dealer ServicesOffers finance and insurance products through independent agencies and brokers to auto dealerships countrywide.  Products primarily include vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset protection waivers, road hazard tire and wheel protection, and paintless dent repair protection.

Distribution channelsSquareTradeDistributed primarily through many of the U.S.’s major retailers and mobile operators in Europe.ArityAllstate and Esurance brands and Answer Financial use Arity’s services through their Drivewise, DriveSense and StreetWise telematics solutions.  In 2017, Arity began providing services to non-affiliates.Allstate Roadside ServicesDistributed through Allstate exclusive agencies, relationships with wholesale partners, affinity groups and through a mobile application. We serve customers through a combination of proprietary and third party services, Allstate-branded and pay-per-use plans.Allstate Dealer ServicesThese products and services are distributed nationwide by independent agencies and brokers through auto dealerships in the U.S. to customers in conjunction with the purchase of a new or used vehicle.

Geographic Markets

The Service Businesses primarily operate in the U.S., with certain businesses offering services in Europe, Canada and Puerto Rico.

Competition

We compete on a wide variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength, price, distribution and the customer experience.  The market for these products and services continues to be highly fragmented and competitive.





The Allstate Corporation7





2017 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Allstate Life Segment

Strategy

The Allstate Life segment’s product offerings position Allstate exclusive agencies and financial specialists as trusted advisors.  We also distribute non-proprietary retirement product solutions offered by third-party providers.  Our target customers are those who prefer local personalized advice and service and are brand-sensitive.

Our strategy is to deepen Allstate customer relationships by fully integrating into the Allstate brand customer value proposition while modernizing our operating model through tailored distribution support, product innovation and enhancing the underwriting process.  Our product positioning provides solutions to help meet customer needs during various life stages.  Basic mortality protection solutions are provided through less complex products, such as term and whole life insurance, sold primarily through exclusive agents and licensed sales professionals.  More advanced mortality and financial planning solutions such as universal life are provided primarily through exclusive financial specialists.

Many Allstate exclusive agencies partner with exclusive financial specialists to deliver life and retirement solutions.  These specialists have expertise with advanced life and retirement cases and other financial needs of customers.  Successful partnerships assist agencies with building stronger and deeper customer relationships.  Sales producer education and technology improvements are being made to ensure agencies have the tools and information needed to help customers meet their needs and build personal relationships as trusted advisors.

Products and Distribution

Insurance productsTerm lifeInterest-sensitive lifeWhole lifeVariable life

Distribution channelAllstate exclusive agencies and 1,100 exclusive financial specialists.  The majority of life insurance business written involves exclusive financial specialists, including referrals from exclusive agencies and licensed sales professionals.

Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists also sell certain non-proprietary products, including mutual funds, fixed and variable annuities, disability insurance, and long-term care insurance to provide a broad suite of protection and retirement products.  As of December 31, 2017, Allstate agencies had approximately $16.8 billion of non-proprietary mutual funds and fixed and variable annuity account balances under management.  New and additional deposits into these non-proprietary products were $2.1 billion in 2017.



CompetitionWe compete on a wide variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength and ratings, price, distribution and the level of customer service.  The market for life insurance continues to be highly fragmented and competitive.  As of December 31, 2016, there were approximately 370 groups of life insurance companies in the United States.Geographic MarketsThrough subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell various types of these products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.  The top geographic markets are reflected below.Geographic distribution of statutory direct premiums(1)New York19.0%California10.3Texas8.7Florida6.1Illinois5.9(1)No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent.



8www.allstate.com





Item 1. Business2017 Form 10-K



Allstate Benefits Segment

Strategy

The Allstate Benefits segment provides consumers with financial protection against the risk of accidents, illness, and mortality.  We are an industry leader in the rapidly growing voluntary benefits market, offering a broad range of products through workplace enrollment.  Market trends for voluntary benefits are favorable as the market has doubled in size over the last decade, driven by the ability of voluntary benefits to fill the increasing financial burden placed on employees from employers seeking to contain rising benefit costs.  We have introduced new products and enhanced existing products to address these financial gaps by providing protection for catastrophic events such as a critical illness, accident or hospital stay.  We are expanding our life capabilities, offering employer paid group term life in addition to employee paid individual and group term and permanent life solutions.

Our products are offered through a network of independent agents and Allstate exclusive agencies.  We differentiate ourselves by offering a broad product portfolio, flexible enrollment solutions and technology (including significant presence on employer benefit administration systems), and our strong national accounts team, as well as the well-recognized Allstate brand.

Our strategy for growth includes investing in new generation enrollment and administrative technology to improve our customer experience and modernize our operating model, continued expansion of our national accounts team relationships, deeper engagement with independent agents and Allstate agencies, and continued investment in product innovation.

Products and Distribution

Our target customers are middle market consumers with family financial protection needs employed by small, medium and large sized firms.

Voluntary benefits productsLifeShort-term disabilityAccidentOther healthCritical illness

Distribution channelsOur primary distribution channel continues to be through 6,000 workplace enrolling independent agents.We also distribute products using Allstate exclusive agencies, focusing on small employers.



CompetitionWe compete on a wide variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength and ratings, price, distribution, and customer service.The market for voluntary benefits is growing as these products help employees fill the increasing gaps associated with continued medical cost inflation and the shifting of costs from employers to employees to cover co-pays and deductibles.  Favorable industry and economic trends have increased competitive pressure and attracted new traditional and non-traditional entrants to the voluntary benefits market.  Recent entrants, including large group medical, life and disability insurance carriers, are leveraging core benefit capabilities by bundling and discounting to capture voluntary market share.Geographic MarketsThrough subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell voluntary benefits products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam and Canada.  The top geographic markets are reflected below.Geographic distribution of statutory direct premiums(1)Florida11.9%Texas11.5North Carolina6.3Georgia5.1(1)No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent.



The Allstate Corporation9





Item 1. Business2017 Form 10-K



Allstate Annuities Segment

Strategy

The Allstate Annuities segment consists of deferred fixed annuities and immediate fixed annuities (including standard and sub-standard structured settlements).  The segment is in run-off and is focused on increasing lifetime economic value.  Both the deferred and immediate annuity businesses have been adversely impacted by the historically low interest rate environment.  Our immediate annuity business has also been impacted by medical advancements that have resulted in annuitants living longer than anticipated when many of these contracts were originated.

Allstate Annuities focuses on the distinct risk and return profiles of the specific products when developing investment and liability management strategies.  The level of legacy deferred annuities in force has been significantly reduced and the investment portfolio and crediting rates are proactively managed to improve profitability of the business while providing appropriate levels of liquidity.

The investment portfolio supporting our immediate annuities is managed to ensure the assets match the characteristics of the liabilities and provide the long-term returns needed to support this business.  To better match the long-term nature of our immediate annuities, we continue to increase performance-based investments in which we have ownership interests and a greater proportion of return is derived from idiosyncratic asset or operating performance.  While we anticipate higher returns on these investments over time, the investment income can vary significantly between periods.

We continue to review strategic options to reduce exposure and improve returns of the business.  As a result, we may take additional operational and financial actions that offer return improvement and risk reduction opportunities.

Products and Distribution

We previously offered and continue to have in force deferred fixed annuities and immediate fixed annuities (including standard and sub-standard structured settlements).  We exited the continuing sale of annuities over an eight year period from 2006 to 2014, reflecting our expectations of declining returns. In 2006, we disposed of substantially all of the variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements.  For discussion of non-proprietary retirement and investment products sold through our Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists, see Part I, Item 1. Allstate Life Segment of this report.







Other Business Segments

Discontinued Lines and Coverages Segment

The Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from property and casualty insurance coverage that primarily relates to policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s.

StrategyWe have assigned management of this segment to a designated group of professionals with expertise in claims handling, policy coverage interpretation, exposure identification and reinsurance collection.  As part of its responsibilities, this group may at times be engaged in policy buybacks, settlements and reinsurance assumed and ceded commutations.

We may continue to experience development in the reserves established for asbestos and/or environmental losses in the future, which could be due to the potential adverse impact of new information relating to new and additional claims or the impact of resolving unsettled claims based on unanticipated events such as arbitrations, litigation, legislative, judicial or regulatory actions.  Environmental losses may also increase as the result of additional funding for environmental site cleanup.

We continue toaddress challenges related to the concentration of insurance and reinsurance claims from companies who specialize in this business.

Corporate and Other Segment

Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.

Additional information

Information regarding the last three years’ revenues and income from operations attributable to reportable segments is contained in Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements and Part II, Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  Note 4 also includes information regarding the last three years’ identifiable assets attributable to our operations.  Note 4 and Part II, Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.



The Allstate Corporation10





Item 1. Business2017 Form 10-K



Regulation

Allstate is subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level.  The method, extent and substance of such regulation vary by state but generally have their source in statutes that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and that also delegate regulatory authority to a state agency.  These rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters, including insurer solvency and statutory surplus sufficiency, reserve adequacy, insurance company licensing and examination, agent and adjuster licensing, policy forms, rate setting, the nature and amount of investments, claims practices, participation in shared markets and guaranty funds, transactions with affiliates, the payment of dividends, underwriting standards, statutory accounting methods, trade practices, corporate governance and risk management.  In addition, state legislators and insurance regulators continue to examine the appropriate nature and scope of state insurance regulation.  For a discussion of statutory financial information, see Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements.  For a discussion of regulatory contingencies, see Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements.  Notes 14 and 16 are incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.

As part of an effort to strengthen the regulation of the financial services market, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) was enacted in 2010.  Dodd-Frank created the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”).  The FIO monitors the insurance industry, provides advice to the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), represents the U.S. on international insurance matters, and studies the current regulatory system.

Additional regulations or new requirements may emerge from the activities of various regulatory entities, including the Federal Reserve Board, FIO, FSOC, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), and the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”), that are evaluating solvency and capital standards for insurance company groups.  In addition, the NAIC has adopted amendments to its model holding company law that have been adopted by some jurisdictions.  The outcome of these actions is uncertain; however, these actions may result in an increase in the level of capital and liquidity required by insurance holding companies.

We cannot predict whether any specific state or federal measures will be adopted to change the nature or scope of the regulation of insurance or what effect any such measures would have on Allstate.  We are working for changes in the regulatory environment to make insurance more available and affordable for customers, encourage market innovation, improve driving safety, strengthen cybersecurity, and promote better catastrophe preparedness and loss mitigation.

Agent and Broker Compensation.In recent years, several states considered new legislation or regulations regarding the compensation of agents and brokers by insurance companies.  The proposals



ranged in nature from new disclosure requirements to new duties on insurance agents and brokers in dealing with customers.  New York requires the disclosure of certain information concerning agent and broker compensation.

Limitations on Dividends by Insurance Subsidiaries.As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own, The Allstate Corporation relies on dividends from Allstate Insurance Company as one of the principal sources of cash to pay dividends and to meet its obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on debt or to fund non-insurance-related businesses.  Allstate Insurance Company is regulated as an insurance company in Illinois, and its ability to pay dividends is restricted by Illinois law.  For additional information regarding those restrictions, see Part II, Item 5 of this report.  The laws of the other jurisdictions that generally govern our other insurance subsidiaries contain similar limitations on the payment of dividends.  However, such laws in some jurisdictions may be more restrictive.

Insurance Holding Company Regulation – Change of Control.



The Allstate Corporation11



2017 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Rate Regulation.Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring personal property and casualty insurers to file rating plans, policy or coverage forms, and other information with the state’s regulatory authority.  In many cases, such rating plans, policy forms, or both must be approved prior to use.

The speed with which an insurer can change rates in response to competition or increasing costs depends, in part, on whether the rating laws are (i) prior approval, (ii) file-and-use or (iii) use-and-file laws.  In states having prior approval laws, the regulator must approve a rate before the insurer may use it.  In states having file-and-use laws, the insurer does not have to wait for the regulator’s approval to use a rate, but the rate must be filed with the regulatory authority prior to being used.  A use-and-file law requires an insurer to file rates within a certain period of time after the insurer begins using them.  Eighteen states, including California and New York, have prior approval laws.  Under all three types of rating laws, the regulator has the authority to disapprove a rate filing.

An insurer’s ability to adjust its rates in response to competition or to changing costs is dependent on an insurer’s ability to demonstrate to the regulator that its rates or proposed rating plan meets the requirements of the rating laws.  In those states that significantly restrict an insurer’s discretion in selecting the business that it wants to underwrite, an insurer can manage its risk of loss by charging a rate that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance.  In those states that significantly restrict an insurer’s ability to charge a rate that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance, the insurer can manage its risk of loss by being more selective in the type of business it underwrites.  When a state significantly restricts both underwriting and pricing, it becomes more difficult for an insurer to maintain its profitability.

From time to time, the personal lines insurance industry comes under pressure from state regulators, legislators, and special-interest groups to reduce, freeze, or set rates at levels that do not correspond with our analysis of underlying costs, catastrophe loss exposure, and expenses.  We expect this kind of pressure to persist.  Allstate and other insurers are using increasingly sophisticated pricing models and rating plans that are reviewed by regulators and special-interest groups.  State regulators may interpret existing law or rely on future legislation or regulations to impose new restrictions that adversely affect profitability or growth.  We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative and regulatory measures regarding insurance rates.

Involuntary Markets.As a condition of maintaining our licenses to write personal property and casualty insurance in various states, we are required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations that provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers.  Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to our results of operations.



For a discussion of these items see Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements.  Note 14 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.

Reinsurance recoverables with the Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association (“MCCA”) and the New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty Association (“PLIGA”).

The MCCA is a state-mandated indemnification mechanism for personal injury protection losses that



The PLIGA provides reimbursement to insurers for the medical benefits portion of personal injury protection coverage paid in excess of certain thresholds based on the year of policy issuance.  As the statutory administrator of the New Jersey Unsatisfied Claim and Judgment Fund (“UCJF”), PLIGA also provides compensation to qualified claimants for personal injury protection, bodily injury, or death caused by private passenger automobiles operated by uninsured or hit-and-run drivers.  PLIGA annually assesses all admitted property and casualty insurers writing motor vehicle liability insurance in New Jersey for PLIGA reimbursements and expenses.  UCJF assessments can be expensed as losses recoverable in rates as appropriate.  As of December 31, 2016, PLIGA had a surplus of $277 million.  We do not anticipate any material adverse financial impact from PLIGA or the UCJF on Allstate.

For a discussion of MCAA and PLIGA see Note 10 of the consolidated financial statements.  Note 10 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.



12www.allstate.com



Item 1. Business2017 Form 10-K



Guaranty Funds.Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in order to cover certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies.  We do not anticipate any material adverse financial impact on Allstate from these assessments.

National Flood Insurance Program.

.  In response to concerns from members of Congress, the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) audited FEMA’s Sandy claims review process and on January 24, 2018, issued an audit report titled “Unsupported Payments Made to Policyholders Who Participated in the Hurricane Sandy Claims Review Process”.  The report contains seven recommendations to FEMA, which emphasize the importance of FEMA communicating clear guidance to adjusters, and identifying and implementing better methods to inform policyholders of flood coverage limitations.  We cannot predict the impact this report or recommendations will have on FEMA or the operations of the NFIP.  Congressional authorization for the NFIP is set to expire March 23, 2018.  FEMA purchased $1.46

billion of reinsurance to cover any qualifying flood losses in 2018 for the NFIP.  Congress is considering reforms to the program that would be incorporated in legislation to reauthorize the NFIP as well as evaluating the funding of the program.



Investment Regulation.Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that require investment portfolio diversification and that limit the



amount of investment in certain categories.  Failure to comply with these rules leads to the treatment of non-conforming investments as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus.  Further, in some instances, these rules require divestiture of non-conforming investments.

Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Non-Renewing Policies.Most states regulate an insurer’s ability to exit a market.  For example, states may limit, to varying degrees, an insurer’s ability to cancel and non-renew policies.  Some states restrict or prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department.  Regulations that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject withdrawal plans to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer’s ability to exit unprofitable markets.

Variable Life Insurance and Registered Fixed Annuities.The sale and administration of variable life insurance and registered fixed annuities with market value adjustment features are subject to extensive regulatory oversight at the federal and state level, including regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”).

Broker-Dealers, Investment Advisors and Investment Companies.



The Allstate Corporation13



2017 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



delay will allow the DOL to determine whether the Rule may adversely affect investors or retirees or adversely affect the ability of Americans to gain access to retirement information and financial advice.  The delay also allows the DOL to coordinate with other regulators, such as state insurance regulators and the SEC, and Congress.  It is yet to be determined whether any changes to the Rule’s requirements will result from the DOL’s continued examination of the Rule.

Dodd-Frank: Covered Agreement.The Secretary of the Treasury (operating through FIO) and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) are jointly authorized, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank, to negotiate Covered Agreements.  A Covered Agreement is a bilateral or multilateral agreement that “relates to the recognition of prudential measures with respect to the business of insurance or reinsurance that achieves a level of protection for insurance or reinsurance consumers that is substantially equivalent to the level of protection achieved under State insurance or reinsurance regulation.”

On September 22, 2017, theU.S. and European Union (“EU”) signed a Covered Agreement.  In addition to signing the Covered Agreement, Treasury and the USTR jointly issued a policy statement clarifying how the U.S. views implementation of certain provisions of the Covered Agreement.  The policy statement affirms the U.S. system of insurance regulation, including the role of state insurance regulators as the primary supervisors of the business of insurance and addresses several other key provisions of the Covered Agreement for which constituents sought clarity, including prospective application to reinsurance agreements and an affirmation that the Covered Agreement does not require development of a group capital standard or group capital requirement in the U.S.

The U.S. has five years from the date of signing to remove collateral requirements from reinsurance laws and regulations for EU reinsurers that meet certain standards, or face federal preemption determinations by FIO.  We expect states to initiate changes to reinsurance laws and regulations consistent with clarifications provided in the policy statement issued by Treasury and the USTR.  Additionally, the NAIC may pursue development of a Model Law to provide a uniform basis from which all states implement changes to their reinsurance laws and regulations to conform with the terms of the Covered Agreement and the interpretive guidance of the policy statement issued by Treasury and the USTR.

Division Statute.On May 3, 2017, the Connecticut state Senate passed legislation authorizing a statute that makes available a process by which a domestic insurance company may divide into two or more domestic insurance companies.  The statute could be used to isolate an existing block of life, health or property-casualty business for sale to a third party in a transaction that without the statute could only be accomplished through reinsurance.  The statute could also be used to divide continuing blocks of insurance business from insurance business that is no longer marketed, or otherwise has been discontinued, into separate companies with separate capital.  Before a



plan of division can be effected, it must be approved according to the organizational documents of the dividing insurer and submitted for approval by the Connecticut Insurance Department.

Presidential Executive Order - Core Principles for Financial Services Regulation.Treasury released a report on October 26, 2017, examining the regulatory framework for the asset management and insurance industries pursuant to Executive Order 13772, Core Principles for Regulating the United States Financial System (“Executive Order”).  The report examines the current regulatory framework for asset managers and insurers with the goal of identifying areas out of alignment with the core principles identified in the Executive Order and makes recommendations to bring these areas into alignment.

The report includes several recommendations for legislative and regulatory actions to enhance systemic risk management, make regulation more efficient and effective, and strengthen U.S. engagement in international regulation.  In addition, the report recommends the SEC consider steps to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the regulation of insurance products under its jurisdiction by developing and maintaining accounting standards for the insurance industry that are consistent with insurance business models.  As it relates to potential changes in accounting standards for the insurance industry, the report acknowledges the SEC’s authority to develop accounting and financial reporting standards for public companies, its oversight authority over the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which it uses to develop financial accounting and reporting standards, and recommends that the SEC engage with the insurance industry and its regulators to assess current and proposed accounting standards affecting the insurance industry.

Privacy Regulation.Federal law and the laws of many states require financial institutions to protect the security and confidentiality of customer information and to notify customers about their policies and practices relating to collection and disclosure of customer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information.  Federal law and the laws of many states also regulate disclosures and disposal of customer information.  Congress, state legislatures, and regulatory authorities are expected to consider additional regulation relating to privacy and other aspects of customer information.

Asbestos.Congress has repeatedly considered legislation to address asbestos claims and litigation in the past.  In February 2017, legislation was introduced in the House titled the Furthering Asbestos Claims Transparency Act of 2017 (the “FACT Act”).  The Act requires transparency of asbestos trust funds, requiring quarterly reports on claims made to the trusts, as well as requiring the trusts to release information sought by defendants in asbestos lawsuits.  The House Judiciary Committee approved the Act, but a full House vote has not occurred.  In 2017, the House introduced an additional bill called the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act of 2017.  This legislation is with the



14www.allstate.com



Item 1. Business2017 Form 10-K



Senate Judiciary Committee.  We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative measures regarding asbestos.

Environmental.



Website

Our website is allstate.com.  The Allstate Corporation’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to such reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on the Investor Relations section of our website (www.allstateinvestors.com), free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the SEC.  In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, our global code of business conduct, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Succession Committee, Executive Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, and Risk and Return Committee are available on the Investor Relations section of our website and in print to any stockholder who requests copies by contacting Investor Relations, The Allstate Corporation, 2775 Sanders Road, Northbrook, Illinois 60062-6127, 1-847-402-2800.  The information found on our website is not incorporated



by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document filed with the SEC.



Other Information About Allstate

•As of December 31, 2017, Allstate had approximately 42,460 full-time employees and 440 part-time employees.

•Information regarding revenues generated outside the United States is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference to Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements.

•Allstate’s seven reportable segments use shared services, including human resources, investment, finance, information technology and legal services, provided by Allstate Insurance Company and other affiliates.

•Although the insurance business generally is not seasonal, claims and claims expense for the Allstate Protection segment tend to be higher for periods of severe or inclement weather.

•“Allstate” is a very well-recognized brand name in the United States.  We use the “Allstate,” “Esurance,” “Encompass” and “Answer Financial” brands extensively in our business.  We also provide additional protection products and services through “SquareTrade,” “Arity,” “Allstate Roadside Services,”“Allstate Dealer Services” and “Allstate Benefits.”  These brands, products and services are supported with the related service marks, logos, and slogans.  Our rights in the United States to these names, service marks, logos and slogans continue as long as we continue to use them in commerce.  Many service marks used by Allstate are the subject of renewable U.S. and/or foreign service mark registrations.  We believe that these service marks are important to our business and we intend to maintain our rights to them.



The Allstate Corporation15





2017 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names of our executive officers, their ages as of February 1,2018, their positions, business experience, and the years of their first election as officers. “AIC” refers to Allstate Insurance Company. Each of the officers named below may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the board of directors of the relevant company.





NameAgePosition with Allstate and Business ExperienceYear FirstElectedOfficer

Thomas J. Wilson60Chair of the Board (May 2008 to present), President (June 2005 to January 2015 and February 2018 to present), and Chief Executive Officer (January 2007 to present) of The Allstate Corporation and AIC.1995

Don Civgin56President, Service Businesses of AIC (January 2018 to present); President, Emerging Businesses of AIC (February 2015 to January 2018); President and Chief Executive Officer, Allstate Financial of AIC (March 2012 to February 2015).2008

John E. Dugenske51Executive Vice President and Chief Investment and Corporate Strategy Officer of AIC (January 2018 to present); Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of AIC (March 2017 to January 2018); Group Managing Director and Global Head of Fixed Income at UBS Global Asset Management (December 2008 to February 2017).2017

Eric K. Ferren44Senior Vice President, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer of The Allstate Corporation (May 2017 to present) and of AIC (December 2017 to present); Senior Vice President of External Reporting and Corporate Accounting of AIC (April 2014 to December 2017); Chief Financial Officer of HSBC Bank USA, N.A. (January 2014 to April 2014); Chief Accounting Officer of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. (July 2010 to April 2014).2014

Mary Jane Fortin53President, Allstate Financial of AIC (February 2017 to present); President, Allstate Life and Retirement of AIC (October 2015 to February 2017); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Global Consumer Insurance of AIG (April 2012 to September 2015); President and Chief Executive Officer, American General Life Insurance Company (August 2009 to March 2012).2015

Suren Gupta56Executive Vice President, Enterprise Technology and Strategic Ventures of AIC (February 2015 to present); Executive Vice President, Allstate Technology and Operations of AIC (April 2011 to February 2015).2011

Harriet K. Harty51Executive Vice President, Human Resources of AIC (February 2015 to present); Senior Vice President of AIC (November 2012 to February 2015).2012

Susan L. Lees60Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of The Allstate Corporation (May 2013 to present) and of AIC (June 2013 to present); Executive Vice President and General Counsel of The Allstate Corporation (June 2012 to May 2013) and of AIC (June 2012 to June 2013).2008

Jesse E. Merten43Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of AIC (December 2017 to present) and Treasurer of The Allstate Corporation (January 2015 to present) and of AIC (February 2015 to present); Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Allstate Financial of AIC (January 2012 to February 2015).2012

Mario Rizzo51Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation and AIC (January 2018 to present); Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Allstate Personal Lines of AIC (February 2015 to January 2018); Senior Vice President and Treasurer of The Allstate Corporation (November 2010 to January 2015) and of AIC (November 2010 to February 2015).2010

Glenn T. Shapiro52President, Allstate Personal Lines of AIC (January 2018 to present); Executive Vice President, Claims of AIC (April 2016 to January 2018); Executive Vice President and Chief Claims Officer of Liberty Mutual Commercial Insurance (May 2011 to March 2016).2016

Steven E. Shebik61Vice Chair of The Allstate Corporation and AIC (January 2018 to present); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation (February 2012 to January 2018) and of AIC (March 2012 to January 2018).1999



Forward-Looking Statements



16www.allstate.com





Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures2017 Form 10-K



