Item 1.  Business

The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992, to serve as the holding company for Allstate Insurance Company.  Its business is conducted principally through Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company and other subsidiaries (collectively, including The Allstate Corporation, “Allstate”).Allstate’s purpose is to protect people from life’s uncertainties and prepare them for the future so they can realize their hopes and dreams.  Allstate is primarily engaged in the property and casualty insurance business in the United States and Canada.  Additionally, Allstate provides customers other protection offerings such as life, accident and health insurance and protection plans that cover electronic devices and personal identities.The Allstate Corporation is one of the largest publicly held personal lines insurers in the United States.  Allstate’s personal property-liability strategy is to increase market share by providing auto insurance with a competitive value proposition and offering a circle of protection.  The Allstate brand is widely known through the “You’re In Good Hands With Allstate®” slogan.  Allstate is the third largest personal property and casualty insurer in the United States on the basis of 2018 statutory direct premiums written according to A.M. Best.



In addition, Allstate also has strong market positions in other protection products.  According to A.M. Best, Allstate is the nation’s 20thlargest issuer of life insurance business on the basis of 2018 ordinary life insurance in force and 40thlargest on the basis of 2018 statutory admitted assets.  Allstate Benefits provides accident, health and life insurance through employers and is one of the top five voluntary benefits carriers in the market based on a 2018 voluntary/worksite industry survey.  SquareTrade, which sells consumer protection plans using theAllstate Protection Plansname in the U.S., provides protection plans on a wide variety of consumer goods such as cell phones, tablets, computers and appliances, and has a leading position in distribution through major retailers.  InfoArmor, which provides identity protection through employers using theAllstate Identity Protectionname, has a leading position in this distribution channel.  In total, Allstate had145.9 millionpolicies in force (“PIF”) as of December 31, 2019.

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we occasionally refer to statutory financial information.  All domestic United States insurance companies are required to prepare statutory-basis financial statements.  As a result, industry data is available that enables comparisons between insurance companies, including competitors that are not required to prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).  We frequently use industry publications containing statutory financial information to assess our competitive position.



The Allstate Corporation1





2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Strategy and Segment Information

Allstate’s strategy has two components: increase personal property-liability market share and expand protection businesses including Service Businesses, Allstate Life and Allstate Benefits.  We create shareholder value through customer satisfaction, unit growth, attractive returns on capital, sustainable profitability and a diversified business platform.



Transformative Growth Plan

We have implemented a multi-year Transformative Growth Plan that leverages the Allstate brand, people and technology.  The Transformative Growth Plan will enable us to better serve customers in a changing world.  The plan will ensure Allstate remains a strong competitor and local agencies continue to provide high value to customers. Winning is our past, our present and our future.

Allstate has thrived for 88 years by adapting to better serve customers. Our Transformative Growth Plan builds on our success by leveraging the Allstate brand, people and technology to improve our long-term competitive position and accelerate growth.  The plan has three components:

Expanded customer access— Consumers currently can access Allstate branded property-liability products through Allstate agencies, contact centers and online.  Access will be expanded to enable consumers to select a method of interaction. All consumers will have the opportunity to decide if they want access to an Allstate agency, so we will no longer need to use both the Allstate and Esurance brands for direct sales and Esurance will be integrated into the Allstate brand in 2020.

Improved customer value—Property-liability products will be redesigned to be affordable, simple and connected.  Insurance pricing will utilize sophisticated rating algorithms, such as telematics, and reflect the service model a customer chooses.

Centralized customer service capabilities are being expanded to improve consistency, reduce costs and enable Allstate agencies to focus on acquiring new customers and developing relationships with existing customers.



2www.allstate.com



2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



We will improve our expense position by focusing on reducing spending while eliminating redundancies.  Simplification efforts will continue to eliminate the need for manual work and optimize our operating model.

Increased investments in marketing and technology—Investments in marketing the Allstate brand will be increased by reallocating Esurance spending.  New technology ecosystems are being built to support increased connectivity, new products and operational adaptability.

This plan is focused on the customer experience, providing a circle of protection through people and technology along with increased connectivity, combined with distribution, product, and technology enhancements.

We are expanding protection businesses utilizing enterprise capabilities and resources such as distribution, analytics, claims, investment expertise, talent and capital.  Using innovative growth platforms (such as telematics and identity protection) and broad distribution including Allstate exclusive agencies, contact centers, online, retailers, workplace benefits brokers, auto dealers, original equipment manufacturers and telecom providers further enhance our customer value proposition.

We evaluate performance and make resource and capital decisions across seven reportable segments.

Reportable segmentsAllstate Protection(1)Includes the Allstate, Encompass and Esurance brands and Answer Financial.  Offers private passenger auto, homeowners, other personal lines and commercial insurance through agencies, contact centers and online.  Esurance will be integrated into the Allstate brand in 2020 as we are repositioning the Allstate brand for broader customer access.Service BusinessesIncludes Allstate Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside Services, Arity and Allstate Identity Protection, which offer a broad range of products and services that expand and enhance our customer value propositions.Allstate LifeOffers traditional, interest-sensitive and variable life insurance products primarily through Allstate exclusive agents and exclusive financial specialists.Allstate BenefitsOffers voluntary benefits products, including life, accident, critical illness, short-term disability and other health insurance products sold through independent agents, benefits brokers and Allstate exclusive agents.Allstate AnnuitiesConsists of deferred fixed annuities and immediate fixed annuities (including standard and sub-standard structured settlements) in run-off.Discontinued Lines and Coverages(1)Relates to property and casualty insurance policies written during the 1960's through the mid-1980's with exposure to asbestos, environmental and other claims in run-off.Corporate and OtherIncludes holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.

(1)Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments comprise Property-Liability.



3www.allstate.com





2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Allstate Protection Segment

Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for90.3%of Allstate’s2019consolidated insurance premiums and contract charges and23.1%of Allstate’s December 31,2019PIF.Private passenger auto, homeowners, other personal lines and commercial insurance products offered through agencies and directly through contact centers and online are included in this segment.  Our strategy is to position product offerings, distribution and technology to meet customers’ evolving needs and protect them from life’s uncertainties.

Strategy

Allstate Protection currently has four market-facing property-liability businesses with products and services that cater to different customer preferences for advice and brand recognition to improve our competitive position and performance.  As part of the Transformative Growth Plan, we will enable consumers to select a method of interaction and Esurance will be integrated into the Allstate brand in 2020.  Investments in marketing for the Allstate brand will be increased by reallocating Esurance spending.



We currently serve our consumers using differentiated products, analytical expertise, telematics and an integrated digital enterprise that leverages data and technology to redesign our processes with a focus on greater effectiveness and efficiencies and long-term expense savings.

Allstate brand strategy

Our strategy is to grow profitably through exclusive agencies and direct channels, while leveraging best-in-class operational capabilities to gain market share and efficiencies.The Allstate brand differentiates itself by offering comprehensive product options and features with access to agencies that provide local advice and service, including a partnership with exclusive financial specialists to deliver life and retirement solutions.

This strategy focuses on four customer-centric themes to expand anddeliver profitable growth:

AvailableCompetitiveSimpleConnectedProvide products and services that protectwhat matters mostOffer products that make good use of our customers’ hard-earned moneyEasy to interact withKnow our customers and proactively interact invalue-added waysInnovative and integrated distribution system that provides consumers with broad points of presence across all channels and offers a comprehensive product portfolioImprove price competitiveness through advancing sophistication and reducing our expensesProvide easy, seamless and unified customer experience with open access across all touchpointsDigitally connected with customers, enabling continual interactions that deepen relationships and provide value

AvailableBeing available is about making sure customers can find us whenever, wherever and however they choose.  And once they do, offer them the protection they need as effectively as possible.  In 2020, we are expanding access by allowing customers to choose how they interact with us.Consumers will have the opportunity to select an Allstate agency to get tailored solutions and supportbased on their needs from Allstate’s10,800exclusive agencies or interact directly with Allstate through mobile, online or contact centers.  Agencies are establishedin10,700locations, supported by27,100licensed sales professionals and1,000exclusive financial specialists.Allstate exclusive agents also offer life and retirement solutions and can partner with exclusive



4www.allstate.com



Item 1. Business2019 Form 10-K



financial specialists who provide expertise with more complex life and retirement solutions and other financial needs of our customers.

Exclusive agencies and financial specialists are supported through marketing assistance, service and business processes, technology, education, offering financing to grow their businesses and other resources to help them enhance the customer experience and to acquire and retain more customers.

Focus areas include improving the effectiveness of the sales and distribution systems through integrated support, tools and technology and reinventing products and services, supported by people and technology.

AffordableLeveraging the Allstate brand, people and technology to improve our long-term competitive position and accelerate growth.

Data, analytics and technology support advances in pricing sophistication for all lines of business.Pricing and underwriting strategies and decisions are designed to generate sustainable profitable growth.

Targeted marketing includesmessaging that communicates the value of our Good Hands®,the importance of having proper coverage, product options, and the ease of doing business with Allstate.

Enhanced loss cost management and expense control are priorities.  To achieve this, we are continuing to modernize our operating platform (including enhanced digital capabilities) and optimizing vendor relationships.  Investments are being made to increase efficiencies and reduce expenses.

SimpleThe strategy to keep things simple for customers and improve their experience with us across the board, giving them open access to shop, get service or file a claim in whatever channel is convenient.

Focus areas include streamlined quoting and binding processes, intelligent services allowing customers to easily find the optimal channel to address their service needs, expanded customer self-service, and continued claims transformation.

Emerging technologies and predictive analytics are being used to simplify the customer experience and expedite the quoting, underwriting and claims processes.

ConnectedWeare enhancing customer connectivity by broadening and deepening the way we stay connected, providing compelling features to customers that connect to us through our Allstate Mobile application while continually developing solutions to enhance offerings and make Allstate Mobile core to the customer experience.

Current capabilities are being expanded through our partnership with Arity, which uses telematics to offer personalized, engaging programs that empower drivers with insights about their vehicle’s health, costs and safety.



Exclusive agent compensation structureThe compensation structure for Allstate exclusive agents rewards them for delivering high value to customers and achieving certain business outcomes such as profitable growth and household penetration.  Allstate exclusive agent remuneration comprises a base commission, variable compensation and a bonus.

•Agents receive a monthly base commission payment as a percentage of their total eligible written premium.

•Variable compensation rewards agents for acquiring new customers by exceeding a base production goal.

•Bonus compensation is based on a percentage of premiums and can be earned by agents who are meeting certain sales goals and selling additional policies to meet customer needs profitably.

Compensation changes for 2020 shift variable compensation toward new business and eliminates variable compensation for renewing customers.  We are aligning agent compensation to emphasize growth while simultaneously improving customer service consistency.

Agents have the ability to earn commissions and additional bonuses on non-proprietary products provided to customers when an Allstate product is not available.  In2019Ivantage, which provides access to these products, had$1.90 billionnon-proprietary premiums under management and is a leading provider of property and casualty brokerage services.

Allstate agents and exclusive financial specialists receive commissions for proprietary and non-proprietary life and retirement sales and are eligible for a quarterly bonus based on the volume of non-proprietary sales.

Allstate independent agent remuneration comprises a base commission and a bonus that can be earned by agents who achieve sales goals and a target loss ratio.

Commercial lines strategyWe are actively pursuing profitable expansion of our commercial lines business in the shared economy, including transportation and home-sharing network companies.  Profit improvement actions have been implemented for our traditional commercial lines insurance products, emphasizing pricing, claims, governance and operational improvements.

Esurance strategy

Esurance has grown in the direct channel with a focus on making insurance surprisingly painless by innovating to make it simple, transparent and affordable with a seamless online and mobile experience.  Esurance is 2.4 times bigger, as measured by premiums written, than when it was acquired eight years ago.  Esurance will be integrated into the Allstate brand in 2020.



The Allstate Corporation5



2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Encompass strategy

Currently, customers who prefer an independent agent can access products under either the Encompass or Allstate brand.  As part of Allstate’s multi-year Transformative Growth Plan, independent agent access will be increased as we combine our Allstate and Encompass brand independent agency businesses and go to market exclusively with the Encompass brand.  In addition to bringing the organizations together, we will expand the independent agency footprint, provide a superior agency and customer experience, and offer contemporary products with sophisticated pricing.

Over the past several years, Encompass has been executing a profit improvement plan emphasizing pricing, governance and operational improvements at both the state and countrywide levels.  These actions have improved underlying profitability but led to a reduction of policies in force compared to prior years for both auto and homeowners.  We expect these profit improvement actions to continue as we implement the Transformative Growth Plan.

Answer Financial strategy

Answer Financial is an insurance agency that sells other insurance companies’ products directly to customers online.  Our strategy as a technology-enabled insurance agency is to provide comparison shopping and related services for businesses, offering customers choice, convenience and ease of use.

Allstate Protection pricing and risk management strategies

Our pricing and underwriting strategies and decisions are designed to generate sustainable profitable growth.

A proprietary database of underwriting and loss experience enables sophisticated pricing algorithms and methodologies to more accurately price risks while also seeking to attract and retain customers in multiple risk segments.

•For auto insurance, risk evaluation factors can include, but are not limited to: vehicle make, model and year; driver age and marital status; territory; years licensed; loss history; years insured with prior carrier; prior liability limits; prior lapse in coverage; and insurance scoring utilizing telematics data and other consumer information.

•For property insurance, risk evaluation factors can include, but are not limited to: the amount of insurance purchased; geographic location of the property; loss history; age, condition and construction characteristics of the property; and characteristics of the insured including insurance scoring utilizing other consumer information.



A combination of underwriting information, pricing and discounts are also used to achieve a more competitive position and growth.  The pricing strategy involves local marketplace pricing and underwriting decisions based on risk evaluation factors to the extent permissible by applicable law and an evaluation of competitors.

Pricing of property products is intended to generate risk-adjusted returns that are acceptable over a long-term period.  Rate increases are pursued to keep pace with loss trends, including losses from catastrophic events and those that are weather-related (such as wind, hail, lightning and freeze not meeting our criteria to be declared a catastrophe).  We also take into consideration potential customer disruption, the impact on our ability to market our products, regulatory limitations, our competitive position and profitability.

In any reporting period, loss experience from catastrophic events and weather-related losses may contribute to negative or positive underwriting performance relative to the expectations incorporated into product pricing.

Property catastrophe exposure is managed with the goal of providing shareholders an acceptable return on the risks assumed in the property business.  Catastrophe exposure management includes purchasing reinsurance to provide coverage for known exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes and fires following earthquakes, wildfires and other catastrophes.  Our current catastrophe reinsurance program supports our risk tolerance framework that targets less than a 1% likelihood of annual aggregate catastrophe losses from hurricanes and earthquakes, net of reinsurance, exceeding$2 billion.

The use of different assumptions and updates to industry models and to our risk transfer program could materially change the projected loss.  Growth strategies include areas where we believe diversification can be enhanced and an appropriate return can be earned for the risk.  As a result, our modeled exposure may increase, but in aggregate remain lower than$2 billionas noted above.  In addition, we have exposure to other severe weather events and wildfires, which impact catastrophe losses.

We are promoting measures to prevent and mitigate losses and make homes and communities more resilient, including enactment of stronger building codes and effective enforcement of those codes, adoption of sensible land use policies, and development of effective and affordable methods of improving the resilience of existing structures.



6www.allstate.com



Item 1. Business2019 Form 10-K



Products and distribution

Allstate Protection differentiates itself by offering solutions to meet broad-based household protection needs and a comprehensive range of innovative product options and features across distribution channels that best suit each consumer segment.

ProductsInsurance products(1)AutoHomeownersSpecialty auto (motorcycle, trailer, motor home and off-road vehicle)Other personal lines (renters, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella, manufactured home and stand-alone scheduled personal property)Commercial linesAnswer FinancialComparison quotes and sales of non-proprietary auto, homeowners and other personal lines (condominium, renters, motorcycle, recreational vehicle and boat)

(1)Insurance products are offered by the Allstate, Esurance and Encompass brands.

Distribution channelsAllstate brandIn the U.S., we offer products through 10,800 Allstate exclusive agencies operating in 10,700 locations, supported by 27,100 licensed sales professionals, and 1,000 exclusive financial specialists.  We also offer products through 3,400 independent agencies, contact centers and online.  In Canada, we offer Allstate brand products through 1,000 employee producers.Esurance brandSold to customers online and through contact centers. (Esurance will be integrated into the Allstate brand in 2020.)Encompass brandDistributed through 2,800 independent agencies.Answer FinancialComparison quotes and sales offered to customers online or through contact centers.

Allstate exclusive agencies also support the Service Businesses, Allstate Life and Allstate Benefits segments through offering roadside assistance, consumer protection plans, identity protection, life insurance and voluntary benefits products.

When an Allstate product is not available, we may offer non-proprietary products to consumers through Ivantage and arrangements made with other companies, agencies, and brokers.  As of December 31, 2019, Allstate agencies had approximately $1.7 billion of non-proprietary personal insurance premiums under management, primarily related to property business in hurricane exposed areas, and approximately $225 million of non-proprietary commercial insurance premiums under management.  Additionally, we offer a homeowners product through our excess and surplus lines carrier, North Light Specialty Insurance Company, in certain areas with higher risk of catastrophes or where customers do not meet the Allstate brand standard underwriting profile.



The Allstate Corporation7



2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business







Innovative product offerings and features

Market-leading solutions

Allstate brandYour Choice Auto®Qualified customers choose from a variety of options, such as Accident Forgiveness, Deductible Rewards®, Safe Driving Bonus®and New Car Replacement.

Allstate House and Home®Featured options include Claim RateGuard®, Claim-Free Bonus, Deductible RewardsSMand flexibility in options and coverages, including graduated roof coverage and pricing based on roof type and age for damage related to wind and hail events.

Claim Satisfaction Guarantee®Promised return of premium to standard auto insurance customers dissatisfied with their claims experience.

Bundling BenefitsAuto customers with a qualifying property policy are provided an auto renewal guarantee and a deductible waiver (when the same event, with the same covered cause of loss, damages both auto and property).  Offered in 39 states as of December 31, 2019.

New Car ReplacementProtectionReplaces a qualifying customer’s vehicle (two model years old or less) involved in a total loss accident with a vehicle of the same or similar make and model. Offered in 39 states as of December 31, 2019.

Encompass brandEncompassOne®PolicyPackaged insurance product with one premium, one bill, one policy deductible and one renewal date.  Broad coverage options include customizable features such as enhanced accident forgiveness, new-car replacement coverage, walk-away home coverage option should the insured decide not to rebuild, flexible additional living expense coverage, water-sewer backup coverage options and roadside assistance.  This product is offered in 36 states and the District of Columbia (“D.C.”) as of December 31, 2019.

Surround Solutions by Encompass®Offers auto (6-months), homeowner and specialty lines products, pricing, services and support designed to provide flexibility and be customized based on consumer needs.  Offered exclusively in four states for Encompass as of December 31, 2019.

Telematics offerings

Allstate brandDrivewise®Telematics-based program, available in 50 states and the District of Columbia as of December 31, 2019, that uses a mobile application or an in-car device to capture driving behaviors and encourage safe driving.  It provides customers with information and tools, incentives and driving challenges.  For example, in most states, Allstate Rewards®provides reward points for safe driving.

Milewise®Usage-based insurance product, available in 14 states as of December 31, 2019, that gives customers flexibility to customize their insurance and pay based on the number of miles they drive.

Esurance brandDriveSense®Telematics-based insurance program, available in 37 states as of December 31, 2019, that primarily uses a mobile application to capture driving behaviors and reward customers for safe driving.

Encompass brandRoute ReportSMTelematics application, available in 16 states as of December 31, 2019, used to capture driving behaviors and reward customer participation.

Shared economy solutions

Allstate brandTransportation Network Company Commercial AutoCommercial coverage of transportation networking company independent drivers during various phases of the ride sharing service.

Allstate Ride for Hire®/ HostAdvantage®Supplemental personal insurance coverage for those using their vehicle to drive for a transportation network company or their house for peer-to-peer property sharing.



8www.allstate.com



Item 1. Business2019 Form 10-K



Competition

The personal lines insurance markets, including private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, are highly competitive.  The following charts provide Allstate Protection’s combined market share compared to our principal U.S. competitors using statutory direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2018, according to A.M. Best.





Geographic markets

We primarily operate in the U.S (all 50 states and D.C.) and Canada.  Our top geographic markets based on 2019 statutory direct written premiums are reflected below.









The Allstate Corporation9





2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Service Businesses Segment

Our Service Businesses segment accounted for3.7%of Allstate’s2019consolidated total revenue and72.6%of Allstate’s December 31,2019PIF.Service Businesses includesAllstate Protection Plans®, Allstate Dealer Services®, Allstate Roadside Services®, Arity®andAllstate Identity Protection®, which offer a broad range of products and services that expand and enhance customer value propositions.

Strategy- To deliver superior value propositions and build strategic platforms to connect and engage with customers and effectively address their changing needs and preferences.

AllstateSMProtection PlansExpand distribution of consumer protection plan and technical support products through new and existing retail and mobile operator accounts while increasing profitability and returns.Allstate Dealer Services®Expand distribution of Allstate branded finance and insurance products and services to auto dealerships, while pursuing additional distribution through strategic partnerships.Allstate Roadside Services®Modernize the roadside assistance business through technology and enhance capabilities to deliver a superior customer experience while improving efficiency and returns.Arity®Leverage analytics and deep understanding of driver risk to create a strategic platform.  The platform will be used by those industries affected most by the changing face of transportation, including insurance companies, shared mobility companies and the automotive ecosystem.AllstateSMIdentity ProtectionCreate a leading position in the identity protection market, offering full identity protection monitoring with proactive alerts, digital exposure reporting and identity theft reimbursement as well as expanding into other distribution channels.

Products and distribution

Products and servicesAllstate Protection PlansProvides consumer protection plans and related technical support for mobile phones, consumer electronics and appliances which provide customers protection from mechanical or electrical failure, and in certain cases, accidental damage from handling.Allstate Dealer ServicesOffers finance and insurance products, including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset protection waivers, road hazard tire and wheel protection, and paintless dent repair protection.Allstate Roadside ServicesOffers towing, jump-start, lockout, fuel delivery and tire change services to retail customers and customers of our wholesale partners.  Good Hands Rescue®is a pay-per-use mobile application service that connects users to a select countrywide network of third-party providers and a proprietary crowdsourced network to assist with emergencies.ArityProvides data and analytics solutions with the Arity platform using automotive telematics information.  Customers receive value from our solutions either by using web-based software tools, white labeled mobile applications or through embedding our technology in their mobile applications.Allstate Identity ProtectionProvides identity protection services including monitoring, alerts, remediation and a proprietary indicator of identity health.

Distribution channelsAllstate Protection PlansMajor retailers in the U.S. and mobile operators in Europe.Allstate Dealer ServicesIndependent agencies and brokers through auto dealerships in the U.S. in conjunction with the purchase of a new or used vehicle.Allstate Roadside ServicesAllstate exclusive agencies, wholesale partners, affinity groups and a mobile application.AritySells directly to affiliate and non-affiliate customers and through strategic partners.Allstate Identity ProtectionPrimarily through workplace benefit programs.

Geographic markets

The Service Businesses primarily operate in the U.S., with certain businesses offering services in Europe, Canada, and Puerto Rico.

Competition

We compete on a variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength, price, distribution and the customer experience.  The market for these services is highly fragmented and competitive.



10www.allstate.com





Item 1. Business2019 Form 10-K



Allstate Life Segment

Strategy

Our Allstate Life segment accounted for4.4%of Allstate’s2019consolidated total revenue and1.3%of Allstate’s December 31,2019PIF.Our overall strategy is to broaden Allstate’s customer relationships and value proposition.  We also distribute non-proprietary retirement products offered by third-party providers.  Our target customers are middle market consumers with family and financial protection needs.

Our product positioning provides solutions to help meet customer needs during various phases of life.  Term and whole life insurance products offer basic life protection solutions while universal life and retirement products cover more advanced needs.  Many Allstate exclusive agencies partner with exclusive financial specialists to deliver life and retirement solutions to their customers.  These specialists have expertise with advanced life and retirement cases and other more complex customer needs.  Successful partnerships assist agencies with building stronger and deeper customer relationships.  Improvements in sales education and technology are being made to ensure agencies have the tools and information needed to help customers meet their needs and build personal relationships.

The operating model is being modernized through investments in data and analytics and technology capabilities, tailoring distribution support, product innovation and enhancing the underwriting process.

Products and distribution

Insurance productsTerm lifeInterest-sensitive lifeWhole lifeVariable life

Distribution channelAllstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists.

Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists also sell certain non-proprietary products, including mutual funds, fixed and variable annuities, disability insurance, and long-term care insurance to provide a broad suite of protection and retirement products.  As of December 31, 2019, Allstate agencies had approximately $16.5 billion of non-proprietary mutual funds and fixed and variable annuity account balances under management.  New and additional deposits into these non-proprietary products were $2.4 billion in 2019.



CompetitionWe compete on a variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength and ratings, price, distribution and customer service.  The market for life insurance continues to be highly fragmented and competitive.  As of December 31, 2018, there were approximately 350 groups of life insurance companies in the United States.Geographic marketsWe primarily operate in the U.S. (all 50 states and D.C.).  Our top geographic markets based on 2019 statutory direct premiums are reflected below.



The Allstate Corporation11





2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Allstate Benefits Segment

Strategy

Our Allstate Benefits segment accounted for2.8%of Allstate’s2019consolidated total revenue and2.9%of Allstate’s December 31,2019PIF.The Allstate Benefits segment provides consumers with financial protection against the risk of accidents, illness and mortality.  We are among the industry leaders in the growing voluntary benefits market, offering a broad range of products through workplace enrollment.  Our life insurance portfolio includes individual and group permanent life solutions.  Target customers are middle market consumers with family and financial protection needs employed by small, medium and large sized firms.  Allstate Benefits is well represented in all market segments and is a leader in the large and mega (over 10,000 employees) market segments.

Our products are offered through independent agents, benefits brokers and Allstate exclusive agencies.  Allstate Benefits is differentiated through its broad product portfolio, flexible enrollment solutions, strong national accounts team and well-recognized brand.

Our strategy for growth is to deliver substantially more value through innovative products and technology, tailored solutions and exceptional service.  Initiatives are focused on expanding into non-traditional products and becoming an integrated digital enterprise through investments in future-state technologies and data and analytics capabilities.

Products and distribution

Voluntary benefits productsLifeShort-term disabilityAccidentOther healthCritical illness

Distribution channels4,960 workplace enrolling independent agents and benefits brokers.Allstate exclusive agencies, focusing on small employers.



CompetitionWe compete on a wide variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength and ratings, price, distribution and customer service.The market for voluntary benefits is growing as these products help employees fill the increasing gaps associated with continued medical cost inflation and the shifting of costs from employers to employees to cover co-pays and deductibles.  Favorable industry and economic trends have increased competitive pressure and attracted new traditional and non-traditional entrants to the voluntary benefits market.  Recent entrants, including large group medical, life and disability insurance carriers, are leveraging core benefit capabilities by bundling and discounting to capture voluntary market share.Geographic marketsWe primarily operate in the U.S. (all 50 states and D.C.) and Canada.  The top geographic markets based on 2019 statutory direct premiums are reflected below.



12www.allstate.com





2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Allstate Annuities Segment

Strategy

Our Allstate Annuities segment accounted for2.9%of Allstate’s2019consolidated total revenue and0.1%of Allstate’s December 31,2019PIF.The Allstate Annuities segment consists primarily of deferred fixed annuities and immediate fixed annuities (including standard and sub-standard structured settlements).  The segment is in run-off and is focused on increasing lifetime economic value.  Both the deferred and immediate annuity businesses have been adversely impacted by the historically low interest rate environment.  Our immediate annuity business has also been impacted by medical advancements that have resulted in annuitants living longer than anticipated when many of these contracts were originated.

Allstate Annuities focuses on the distinct risk and return profiles of the specific products when developing investment and liability management strategies.  The level of legacy deferred annuities in force has been significantly reduced and the investment portfolio and crediting rates are proactively managed to improve profitability of the business while providing appropriate levels of liquidity.

The investment portfolio supporting our immediate annuities is managed to ensure the assets match the characteristics of the liabilities and provide the long-term returns needed to support this business.  To better match the long-term nature of our immediate annuities, we use performance-based investments (primarily limited partnership investments) in which we have ownership interests and a greater proportion of return is derived from idiosyncratic asset or operating performance.

We continue to review strategic options to reduce exposure and improve returns of the business.  As a result, we may take additional operational and financial actions that offer return improvement and risk reduction opportunities.

Products and distribution

We previously offered and continue to have in force deferred fixed annuities and immediate fixed annuities.  We discontinued the sale of proprietary annuities over an eight-year period from 2006 to 2014, reflecting our expectations of declining returns. In 2006, we disposed of substantially all of the variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements.  For discussion of non-proprietary retirement and investment products sold through our Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists, see Part I, Item 1. Allstate Life Segment of this report.







Other Business Segments

Discontinued Lines and Coverages Segment

The Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from property and casualty insurance coverage that primarily relates to policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s.

StrategyManagement of this segment has been assigned to a designated group of professionals with expertise in claims handling, policy coverage interpretation, exposure identification, litigation and reinsurance collection.As part of its responsibilities, this group pursues settlement agreements including policy buybacks on direct excess commercial business when appropriate to improve the certainty of the liabilities.  At the end of 2019,72.2%of the direct excess gross case reserves were attributable to settlement agreements.  This group also manages other direct commercial and assumed reinsurance business in runoff and engages in reinsurance ceded and assumed commutations as required or when considered economically advantageous.

Changes in the reserves established for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines losses have occurred and may continue.  Reserve changes can be caused by new information relating to new and additional claims, new exposures or the impact of resolving unsettled claims based on unanticipated events such as arbitrations, litigation, legislative, judicial or regulatory actions.  Environmental losses may also increase as the result of additional funding for environmental site clean-up.

Challenges related to the concentration of insurance and reinsurance claims from companies who specialize in this business continue to be addressed.

Corporate and Other Segment

Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.





13www.allstate.com





2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Regulation

Allstate is subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level.  The method, extent and substance of such regulation vary by state but generally have their source in statutes that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and that also delegate regulatory authority to a state agency.  These rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters, including insurer solvency and statutory surplus sufficiency, reserve adequacy, insurance company licensing and examination, agent and adjuster licensing, agent and broker compensation, policy forms, rate setting, the nature and amount of investments, claims practices, participation in shared markets and guaranty funds, transactions with affiliates, the payment of dividends, underwriting standards, statutory accounting methods, trade practices, privacy regulation and data security, corporate governance and risk management.  In addition, state legislators and insurance regulators continue to examine the appropriate nature and scope of state insurance regulation.  For a discussion of statutory financial information, see Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements.

For a discussion of regulatory contingencies, see Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements.  Notes 14 and 16 are incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.

As part of an effort to strengthen the regulation of the financial services market, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) was enacted in 2010.  Dodd-Frank created the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”).  The FIO monitors the insurance industry, provides advice to the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), represents the U.S. on international insurance matters, and studies the current regulatory system.

Additional regulations or new requirements may emerge from the activities of various regulatory entities, including the Federal Reserve Board, FIO, FSOC, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), and the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”), that are evaluating solvency and capital standards for insurance company groups.  In addition, the NAIC has adopted amendments to its model holding company law that have been adopted by some jurisdictions.  The outcome of these actions is uncertain; however, these actions may result in an increase in the level of capital and liquidity required by insurance holding companies.

We cannot predict whether any specific state or federal measures will be adopted to change the nature or scope of the regulation of insurance or what effect any such measures would have on Allstate.  We are working for changes in the regulatory environment to make insurance more available and affordable for customers, encourage market innovation, improve driving safety, strengthen cybersecurity, promote better catastrophe preparedness and loss mitigation



and advocate for appropriate long-term capital standards to support optimal risk adjusted returns.

Limitations on Dividends by Insurance Subsidiaries.As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own, The Allstate Corporation relies on dividends from Allstate Insurance Company as one of the principal sources of cash to pay dividends and to meet its obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on debt or to fund non-insurance-related businesses.  Allstate Insurance Company is regulated as an insurance company in Illinois, and its ability to pay dividends is restricted by Illinois law.    The laws of the other jurisdictions that generally govern our other insurance subsidiaries contain similar limitations on the payment of dividends.  However, such laws in some jurisdictions may be more restrictive.

For additional information regarding limitations, see Part II, Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report.

In addition, the NAIC has formed a working group for the development of a group capital calculation covering all entities of the insurance company group for use in solvency monitoring activities.  The calculation is intended to provide analytical information and we do not expect potential revisions to impact our current dividend plans, any increase in the amount of capital or reserves our insurance subsidiaries are required to hold could reduce the amount of future dividends such subsidiaries are able to distribute to the holding company.  Any reduction in the RBC ratios of our insurance subsidiaries could also adversely affect their financial strength ratings as determined by statistical rating agencies.

Insurance Holding Company Regulation – Change of Control.The Allstate Corporation and Allstate Insurance Company are insurance holding companies subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which their insurance subsidiaries do business.  In the U.S., these subsidiaries are organized under the insurance codes of Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Texas, and Wisconsin.  Additionally, some of these subsidiaries are considered commercially domiciled in California and Florida.

Generally, the insurance codes in these states provide that the acquisition or change of “control” of a domestic or commercially domiciled insurer or of any person that controls such an insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the relevant insurance regulator.  In general, a presumption of “control” arises from the ownership, control, possession with the power to vote, or possession of proxies with respect to ten percent or more of the voting securities of an insurer or of a person who controls an insurer.  In addition, certain state insurance laws require pre-acquisition notification to state agencies of a change in control with respect to a non-domestic insurance company licensed to do business in that state.  While such pre-acquisition notification



14www.allstate.com



Item 1. Business2019 Form 10-K



statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, such statutes do authorize certain remedies, including the issuance of a cease-and-desist order with respect to the non-domestic insurer if certain conditions exist, such as undue market concentration.

Thus, any transaction involving the acquisition of ten percent or more of The Allstate Corporation’s common stock would generally require prior approval by the state insurance departments in California, Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Texas and Wisconsin.  Moreover, notification would be required in those other states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions and where the insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business.  Such approval requirements may deter, delay or prevent certain transactions affecting the ownership of The Allstate Corporation’s common stock.

Rate Regulation.Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring personal property and casualty insurers to file rating plans, policy or coverage forms, and other information with the state’s regulatory authority.  In many cases, such rating plans, policy forms, or both must be approved prior to use.

The speed with which an insurer can change rates in response to competition or increasing costs depends on the state rating laws, which include the following categories:

•Prior approval — Regulators must approve a rate before the insurer may use it

•File-and-use — Insurers do not have to wait for the regulator’s approval to use a rate, but the rate must be filed with the regulatory authority prior to being used

•Use-and-file — Requires an insurer to file rates within a certain period of time after the insurer begins using them

•No approval — One state, representing less than 1% of 2019 statutory direct written premiums, does not impose a rate filing requirement

Under these rating laws, the regulator has the authority to disapprove a rate filing.  The percentage of 2019 statutory direct written premiums based on state rating laws are reflected below.



An insurer’s ability to adjust its rates in response to competition or to changing costs is dependent on an insurer’s ability to demonstrate to the regulator that its rates or proposed rating plan meets the requirements of the rating laws.  In those states that significantly restrict an insurer’s discretion in selecting the business



that it wants to underwrite, an insurer can manage its risk of loss by charging a rate that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance.  In those states that significantly restrict an insurer’s ability to charge a rate that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance, the insurer can manage its risk of loss by being more selective in the type of business it underwrites.  When a state significantly restricts both underwriting and pricing, it becomes more difficult for an insurer to maintain its profitability.

From time to time, the personal lines insurance industry comes under pressure from state regulators, legislators, and special-interest groups to reduce, freeze, or set rates at levels that do not correspond with our analysis of underlying costs, catastrophe loss exposure, and expenses.  We expect this kind of pressure to persist.  Allstate and other insurers are using increasingly sophisticated pricing models and rating plans that are reviewed by regulators and special-interest groups.  State regulators may interpret existing law or rely on future legislation or regulations to impose new restrictions that adversely affect profitability or growth.  We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative and regulatory measures regarding insurance rates.

Involuntary Markets.As a condition of maintaining our licenses to write personal property and casualty insurance in various states, we are required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations that provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers.  Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to our results of operations.

For a discussion of these items see Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements.  Note 14 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.

Indemnification Programs.We are a participant in state-based industry pools, facilities or associations, mandating participation by insurers offering certain coverage in their state, including the Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association (“MCCA”), the New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty Association, the North Carolina Reinsurance Facility and the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund.  We also participate in the Federal Government National Flood Insurance Program.

Recent regulatory changes have occurred related to the MCCA.At this time, we are unable to determine whether, or to what extent, these changes will have on our claims and claims expense reserves and corresponding MCCA indemnification recoverables.

•On May 17, 2018, member companies of the MCCA were notified of the ratification of amendments to the MCCA’s Plan of Operation.  The amendments were designed to clarify the MCCA’s preapproval requirements for certain actions and activities involving benefits provided to covered claimants, including the preapproval of any agreement that sets attendant care rates or residential care facility



The Allstate Corporation15



2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



rates and the preapproval of all non-emergency medical flights.

•On May 30, 2019, the Governor of Michigan signed new legislation to reform Michigan’s no-fault auto insurance system.  The reform includes:

–Allowing insureds to choose levels of personal injury protection coverage, including the option to opt-out of personal injury protection coverage in certain circumstances.

–Implementing mandated rate reductions that correspond to the level of personal injury protection coverage chosen by insureds, which go into effect July 2, 2020.

–Setting fee schedules for personal injury protection claims at 200% of Medicare rates in 2021, declining to 195% in 2022 and 190% in 2023, for any providers other than certain unique categories of providers and applying to treatment on existing and new claims beginning after July 1, 2021.

–Implementing or creating new processes for reviewing claims, assessing allowable expenses and setting limits on certain allowable expenses.

•Other legislative proposals to change the MCCA operation in the future are put forth periodically.

For a discussion of these items see Note 10 of the consolidated financial statements.  Note 10 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.

Guaranty Funds.Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in order to cover certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies.  We do not anticipate any material adverse financial impact on Allstate from these assessments.

Investment Regulation.Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulation that specifies the types of investments that can be made and concentration limits of invested assets.  Failure to comply with these rules leads to the treatment of non-conforming investments as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus.  Further, in some instances, these rules require divestiture of non-conforming investments.

Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Non-Renewing Policies.Most states regulate an insurer’s ability to exit a market.  For example, states may limit, to varying degrees, an insurer’s ability to cancel and non-renew policies.  Some states restrict or prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department.  Regulations that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject withdrawal plans to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer’s ability to exit unprofitable markets.

Variable Life Insurance and Registered Fixed Annuities.The sale and administration of variable life insurance and registered fixed annuities with market value adjustment features are subject to extensive



regulatory oversight at the federal and state level, including regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”).

Broker-Dealers, Investment Advisors and Investment Companies.The Allstate entities that operate as broker-dealers, registered investment advisors, and investment companies are subject to regulation and supervision by the SEC, FINRA and/or, in some cases, state securities administrators.  The SEC has adopted a best interest standard that has a compliance effective date of June 30, 2020 and applies to recommendations of securities products to retail customers.  Certain other state and federal regulators are considering or have implemented best interest or fiduciary standards.  Such standards could impact products provided by Allstate agencies and Allstate’s broker-dealers, their sales processes, sales volume, and producer compensation arrangements.

Dodd-Frank: Covered Agreement.The Secretary of the Treasury (operating through FIO) and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) are jointly authorized, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank, to negotiate Covered Agreements.  A Covered Agreement is a bilateral or multilateral agreement that “relates to the recognition of prudential measures with respect to the business of insurance or reinsurance that achieves a level of protection for insurance or reinsurance consumers that is substantially equivalent to the level of protection achieved under State insurance or reinsurance regulation.”

On September 22, 2017, the U.S. and European Union (“EU”) signed a Covered Agreement.  In addition to signing the Covered Agreement, Treasury and the USTR jointly issued a policy statement clarifying how the U.S. views implementation of certain provisions of the Covered Agreement.  The policy statement affirms the U.S. system of insurance regulation, including the role of state insurance regulators as the primary supervisors of the business of insurance and addresses several other key provisions of the Covered Agreement for which constituents sought clarity, including prospective application to reinsurance agreements and an affirmation that the Covered Agreement does not require development of a group capital standard or group capital requirement in the U.S.

The U.S. has five years from the date of signingto amend its credit for reinsurance laws and regulations to conform with the requirements of the Covered Agreement or face federal preemption determinations by the FIO.  To address the requirements of the Covered Agreement, the NAIC has formally adopted revisions to its existing credit for reinsurance model law and model regulation to conform with the requirements of the Covered Agreement with the expectation that states will adopt and implement the modified model law and regulation by September 2022.

On December 19, 2018, the U.S. and the United Kingdom (“UK”) signed a separate Covered Agreement consistent with the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement to coordinate regulation of the insurance industry doing business in the U.S. and UK in the event the UK leaves



16www.allstate.com



Item 1. Business2019 Form 10-K



the EU.  Consistent with the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement (the “Agreement”) signed in 2017, Treasury and the USTR also issued a policy statement regarding implementation of the Agreement affirming the role that state insurance regulators play as the primary supervisors of the U.S. insurance industry.  The Agreement will become effective once U.S. and UK governments exchange written notifications that they have completed all domestic internal requirements and procedures.  This is anticipated to occur when the UK is no longer covered by the Agreement following the UK withdrawal from the EU.

Division Statute.On November 27, 2018, the Illinois General Assembly passed legislation authorizing a statute that makes available a process by which a domestic insurance company may divide into two or more domestic insurance companies.  The statute, which became effective January 1, 2019, can be used to divide continuing blocks of insurance business from insurance business no longer marketed, or otherwise has been discontinued, into separate companies with separate capital.  The statute can also be used for sale to a third party or to manage risks associated with indemnification programs.  Before a plan of division can be effected it must be approved according to the organizational documents of the dividing insurer and submittedfor approval by the Illinois Department of Insurance.

Privacy Regulation and Data Security.Federal law and the laws of many states require financial institutions to protect the security and confidentiality of consumer information and to notify consumers about their policies and practices relating to collection, use, and disclosure of consumer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information.  Federal law and the laws of many states also regulate disclosures and disposal of consumer information.  Congress, state legislatures, and regulatory authorities are expected to consider additional regulation relating to privacy and other aspects of consumer information.

For example, the European Commission adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of its laws and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, such as the public disclosure of significant data breaches, privacy impact assessments, data portability and the appointment of data protection officers. The California Consumer Privacy Act, which took effect in January 2020, adopted similar compliance requirements for businesses that collect personal information on California residents.  Additional states are likely to adopt similarly themed privacy requirements in the future.  Further, the New York State Department of Financial Services has issued cybersecurity regulations for financial services institutions, including banking and insurance entities, that impose a variety of detailed security measures on covered entities.  The NAIC has also adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law, which, if adopted as state legislation, would establish standards for data security and for the investigation of and notification to insurance commissioners of cybersecurity events.  We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible



future legislative measures regarding privacy or cybersecurity.

Asbestos.Congress has repeatedly considered legislation to address asbestos claims and litigation in the past.  We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative measures regarding asbestos.

Environmental.

Allstate’s exposure to liability with regard to its insureds that have been, or may be, named as PRPs is uncertain.  While comprehensive Superfund reform proposals have been introduced in Congress, only modest reform measures have been enacted.  In May 2017, the Environmental Protection Agency created a Superfund Task Force that issued proposed reforms in a July 2018 report.  These recommendations address expediting clean-up and remediation processes, reducing the financial burden of the clean-up process, encouraging private investment, promoting redevelopment and community revitalization, and building and strengthening partnerships.  We cannot predict which, if any, of these reforms will be enacted.

Developments in the insurance and reinsurance industries have fostered a movement to segregate asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines exposures into separate legal entities with dedicated capital.  Regulatory bodies in certain cases have supported these actions.  We are unable to determine the impact, if any, that these developments will have on the collectability of reinsurance recoverables in the future.



The Allstate Corporation17





2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



WebsiteOur website is allstate.com.  The Allstate Corporation’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on the Investor Relations section of our website (www.allstateinvestors.com), free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the SEC.  In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Global Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Succession Committee, Executive Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, and Risk and Return Committee are available on the Investor Relations section of our website and in print to any stockholder who requests copies by contacting Investor Relations, The Allstate Corporation, 2775 Sanders Road, Northbrook, Illinois 60062-6127, 1-847-402-2800.  The information found on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document filed with the SEC.



Other Information About Allstate•As of December 31, 2019, Allstate had approximately 45,780 full-time employees and 510 part-time employees.•Allstate’s seven reportable segments use shared services, including human resources, investment, finance, information technology and legal services, provided by Allstate Insurance Company and other affiliates.•Although the insurance business generally is not seasonal, claims and claims expense for the Allstate Protection segment tend to be higher for periods of severe or inclement weather.•“Allstate®” is a very well-recognized brand name in the United States.  We use the “Allstate®,” “Esurance®,” “Encompass®” and “Answer Financial®” brands extensively in our business.  We also provide additional protection products and services through “AllstateSMProtection Plans”, “Allstate Dealer Services®”, “Allstate Roadside Services®”,“Arity®”, “AllstateSMIdentity Protection” and “Allstate Benefits®”.  These brands, products and services are supported with the related service marks, logos, and slogans.  Our rights in the United States to these names, service marks, logos and slogans continue as long as we continue to use them in commerce.  Many service marks used by Allstate are the subject of renewable U.S. and/or foreign service mark registrations.  We believe that these service marks are important to our business and we intend to maintain our rights to them.



18www.allstate.com





Item 1. Business2019 Form 10-K



Information about our Executive Officers

The following table sets forth the names of our executive officers, their ages as of February 1,2020, their positions, business experience, and the years of their first election as officers. “AIC” refers to Allstate Insurance Company. Each of the officers named below may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the board of directors of the relevant company.





NameAgePosition with Allstate and Business ExperienceYear FirstElectedOfficer

Thomas J. Wilson62Chair of the Board (May 2008 to present), President (June 2005 to January 2015 and February 2018 to present), and Chief Executive Officer (January 2007 to present) of The Allstate Corporation and AIC.1995

Carolyn D. Blair51Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of AIC (October 2019 to present); President of Tartan Advisory Group, Inc. (November 2018 to October 2019); Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources & Communications Officer of Sun Life Financial (April 2014 to June 2018).2019

Elizabeth A. Brady55Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing, Customer and Communications Officer of AIC (January 2020 to present); Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing, Innovation and Corporate Relations Officer of AIC (August 2018 to January 2020); Senior Vice President, Global Brand Management of Kohler Co. (November 2013 to July 2018).2018

Don Civgin58Chief Executive Officer, Protection Products and Services of AIC (January 2020 to present); President, Service Businesses of AIC (January 2018 to January 2020); President, Emerging Businesses of AIC (February 2015 to January 2018); President and Chief Executive Officer, Allstate Financial of AIC (March 2012 to February 2015).2008

John E. Dugenske53President, Investments and Financial Products of AIC (January 2020 to present); Executive Vice President and Chief Investment and Corporate Strategy Officer of AIC (January 2018 to January 2020); Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of AIC (March 2017 to January 2018); Group Managing Director and Global Head of Fixed Income at UBS Global Asset Management (December 2008 to February 2017).2017

Mary Jane Fortin55President, Financial Products of AIC (January 2020 to present); President, Allstate Financial Businesses of AIC (February 2017 to January 2020); President, Allstate Life and Retirement of AIC (October 2015 to February 2017); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Global Consumer Insurance of AIG (April 2012 to September 2015).2015

Suren Gupta58Executive Vice President, Chief Information Technology and Enterprise Services Officer of AIC (January 2020 to present); Executive Vice President, Enterprise Technology and Strategic Ventures of AIC (February 2015 to January 2020); Executive Vice President, Allstate Technology and Operations of AIC (April 2011 to February 2015).2011

Susan L. Lees62Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel, and Secretary of The Allstate Corporation and AIC (January 2020 to present); Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of The Allstate Corporation (May 2013 to January 2020) and of AIC (June 2013 to January 2020); Executive Vice President and General Counsel of The Allstate Corporation (June 2012 to May 2013) and of AIC (June 2012 to June 2013).2008

Jesse E. Merten45Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of AIC (December 2017 to present); Treasurer of The Allstate Corporation (January 2015 to April 2019) and of AIC (February 2015 to May 2019); Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Allstate Financial of AIC (January 2012 to February 2015).2012

John C. Pintozzi54Senior Vice President, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer of The Allstate Corporation (August 2019 to present) and of AIC (September 2019 to present); Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Allstate Investments (May 2012 to August 2019)2005

Mario Rizzo53Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation and AIC (January 2018 to present); Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Allstate Personal Lines of AIC (February 2015 to January 2018); Senior Vice President and Treasurer of The Allstate Corporation (November 2010 to January 2015) and of AIC (November 2010 to February 2015).2010

Glenn T. Shapiro54President, Personal Property-Liability of AIC (January 2020 to present); President, Allstate Personal Lines of AIC (January 2018 to January 2020); Executive Vice President, Claims of AIC (April 2016 to January 2018); Executive Vice President and Chief Claims Officer of Liberty Mutual Commercial Insurance (May 2011 to March 2016).2016

Steven E. Shebik63Vice Chair of The Allstate Corporation and AIC (January 2018 to present); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation (February 2012 to January 2018) and of AIC (March 2012 to January 2018).1999



The Allstate Corporation19





2019 Form 10-KItem 1. Business



Forward-Looking Statements



20www.allstate.com





Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and Other Disclosures2019 Form 10-K



