ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

FleetCor is a leading independent global provider of specialized payment products and services to businesses, commercial fleets, major oil companies,
petroleum marketers and government entities in countries throughout North America, Latin America and Europe. Our payment programs enable our customers to better manage and control employee spending and provide card-accepting merchants with a high
volume customer base that can increase their sales and customer loyalty. In 2011, we processed more than 215 million transactions on our proprietary networks and third-party networks. We believe that our size and scale, geographic reach,
advanced technology and our expansive suite of products, services, brands and proprietary networks contribute to our leading industry position.

We provide our payment products and services in a variety of combinations to create customized payment solutions for our customers and partners. In order
to deliver our payment programs and services and process transactions, we own and operate proprietary “closed-loop” networks through which we electronically connect to merchants and capture, analyze and report customized information. We
also use third-party networks to deliver our payment programs and services in order to broaden our card acceptance and use. To support our payment products, we also provide a range of services, such as issuing and processing, as well as specialized
information services that provide our customers with value-added functionality and data. Our customers can use this data to track important business productivity metrics, combat fraud and employee misuse, streamline expense administration and lower
overall fleet operating costs.

We market our payment products directly to a broad range of commercial fleet customers, including vehicle
fleets of all sizes and government fleets. Among these customers, we provide our products and services predominantly to small and medium commercial fleets. We believe these fleets represent an attractive segment of the global commercial fleet market
given their relatively high use of less efficient payment products, such as cash and general purpose credit cards. We also manage commercial fleet card programs for major oil companies, such as British Petroleum (BP) (including its subsidiary Arco),
Chevron and Citgo, and over 800 petroleum marketers.

These companies collectively maintain hundreds of thousands of end-customer
relationships with commercial fleets. We refer to these major oil companies and petroleum marketers with whom we have strategic relationships as our “partners.”

FleetCor’s predecessor company was organized in the United States in 1986.

Our products
and services

We sell a range of customized fleet and lodging payment programs directly and indirectly through partners, such as major oil
companies and petroleum marketers. We provide our customers with various card products that typically function like a charge card to purchase fuel, lodging and related products and services at participating locations. We support these cards with
specialized issuing, processing and information services that enable us to manage card accounts, facilitate the routing, authorization, clearing and settlement of transactions, and provide value-added functionality and data including customizable
card-level controls and productivity analysis tools. Depending on our customer’s and partner’s needs, we provide these services in a variety of outsourced solutions ranging from a comprehensive “end-to-end” solution (encompassing
issuing, processing and network services) to limited back office processing services. In addition, we offer a telematics solution in Europe that combines global positioning, satellite tracking and other wireless technology to allow fleet operators
to monitor the capacity utilization and movement of their vehicles and drivers. Furthermore, we offer prepaid fuel and food vouchers and cards in Mexico that may be used as a form of payment in restaurants, grocery stores and gas stations.
Approximately 10.4% of our revenue during the year ended December 31, 2011 came from our lodging and telematics products.







Index to Financial Statements

Networks

In order to deliver our payment programs and services, we own and operate eight proprietary closed-loop networks in North America and internationally. In other cases we utilize the networks of our major
oil and petroleum marketer partners. Our networks have well-established brands in local markets and proprietary technology that enable us to capture, transact, analyze and report value-added information pertinent to managing and controlling employee
spending. Examples of our networks include:

North American proprietary closed-loop networks



•Fuelman network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in the United States. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement
terms with over 12,000 individual merchants, providing the Fuelman network with more than 42,000 fueling sites and nearly 27,000 maintenance sites across the country.



•Corporate Lodging Consultants network (CLC)—our proprietary lodging network in the United States and Canada. The CLC Lodging network
covers more than 17,700 hotels across the United States and Canada.



•Commercial Fueling Network (CFN)—our “members only” unattended fueling location network in the United States and Canada.
The CFN network is composed of approximately 2,775 fueling sites, each of which is owned by a CFN member, and the majority of which are unattended cardlock facilities. The CFN membership base is comprised of approximately 270 independent petroleum
marketers. Our members join CFN to provide network access to their fleet customers and benefit from fleet card volume generated by our other members’ fleet customers fueling at their locations.

International proprietary closed-loop networks



•Keyfuels network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in the United Kingdom. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement
terms with approximately 575 individual merchants, providing the Keyfuels network with over 1,950 fueling sites.



•CCS network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. We have negotiated card acceptance and
settlement terms with several major oil companies on a brand-wide basis, including Agip, Benzina, OMV and Shell, and with approximately 1,670 other merchants, providing the CCS network with over 2,580 fueling sites and 1,180 other sites accepting
our cards.



•Petrol Plus Region (PPR) network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in Russia, Poland, Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania, Estonia
and Latvia. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with about 500 individual merchants, providing the PPR network with approximately 8,100 fueling sites across the region.



•Mexican network—our newly acquired proprietary fuel and food card and voucher networks in Mexico. We have negotiated acceptance and
settlement terms with approximately 18,230 individual merchants, providing the Mexican network with over 61,890 fueling sites and 5,595 food sites.



•Allstar network—our newly acquired proprietary fleet card network in the United Kingdom. We have negotiated card acceptance and
settlement terms with approximately 3,200 individual merchants, providing this network with over 7,500 fueling sites.

Third-Party networks

In addition
to our proprietary “closed-loop” networks, we also utilize various third-party networks to deliver our payment programs and services. Examples of these networks include:



•MasterCard network—In the United States, we issue corporate cards that utilize the MasterCard payment network, which includes
176,000 fuel sites and 398,000 maintenance locations across the







Index to Financial Statements

country. Our co-branded MasterCard corporate cards have additional purchasing capabilities and can be accepted at over 32.9 million locations worldwide. We market these cards to customers
who require card acceptance beyond our proprietary merchant locations. The MasterCard network delivers the ability to capture value-added transaction data at the point-of-sale and allows us to provide customers with fleet controls and reporting
comparable to those of our proprietary fleet card networks.



•Major oil and fuel marketer networks—The proprietary networks of branded locations owned by our major oil and petroleum marketer
partners in both North America and internationally are generally utilized to support the proprietary, branded card programs of these partners.



•UTA network—UNION TANK Eckstein GmbH & Co. KG (UTA) operates a network of over 46,000 fleet card-accepting locations across
38 countries throughout Europe, including more than 31,000 fueling sites. The UTA network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries.



•DKV network—DKV operates a network of over 45,000 fleet card-accepting locations across 36 countries throughout Europe, including
more than 30,500 fueling sites. The DKV network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries.



•Carnet networks—In Mexico, we issue fuel cards and food cards that utilize the Carnet payment network, which includes approximately
8,700 fueling sites and 78,890 food locations across the country.

Customers and distribution channels

We provide our products and services primarily to fleet customers and our major oil company and petroleum marketer partners. Our commercial fleet
customers are businesses that operate fleets comprised of one or more vehicles, including small fleets (1-10 vehicles), medium fleets (11-150 vehicles), large fleets (over 150 vehicles), and government fleets (which are owned and operated by
governments). We also provide services through strategic relationships with our partners, ranging in size from major oil companies, such as British Petroleum (BP) (including its subsidiary, Arco), Chevron, Shell and Citgo, to small petroleum
marketers with a single fueling location. While we refer to companies with whom we have strategic relationships as “partners,” our legal relationships with these companies are contractual, and do not constitute legal partnerships.

We distribute our products and services directly to fleet customers as well as through our major oil company and petroleum marketer partners.
We provide comprehensive “end-to-end” support for our direct card programs that include issuing, processing and network services. We manage and market the fleet card programs of our partners under our partners’ own brands. We support
these programs with a variety of business models ranging from fully outsourced card programs, which include issuing, processing and network services, to card programs where we may only provide limited back office processing services. These
supporting services vary based on our partners’ needs and their own card program capabilities.

We primarily provide issuing, processing
and information services to our major oil company partners, as these partners utilize their proprietary networks of branded locations to support their card programs. In addition, we provide network services to those major oil company partners who
choose to offer a co-branded MasterCard as part of their card program. Our agreements with our major oil company partners typically have initial terms of five to ten years with current remaining terms ranging from less than one year up to seven
years. Our top three strategic relationships with major oil companies represented in the aggregate approximately 21%, 22% and 18% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. No single partner
represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 except for Chevron, which represented approximately 11% of our consolidated revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2011
and 2010.







Index to Financial Statements

We provide similar products and services to government fleet customers as we provide to other commercial
fleet customers. Our government fleet customers generally constitute local, state or federal government-affiliated departments and agencies with vehicle fleets, such as police vehicle fleets and school bus fleets. For a description of our financial
information by our North American and International segments and geographical areas, see “Note 16—Segments.”

Sales and
marketing

We market our products and services to fleet operators in North America and internationally through multiple channels including
field sales, telesales, direct marketing, point-of-sale marketing and the internet. We also leverage the sales and marketing capabilities of our strategic relationships with over 800 oil companies, petroleum marketers, card marketers and leasing
companies. As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 370 sales and marketing employees worldwide that are focused on acquiring new customers for all of our direct business card programs, as well as select card programs for oil
companies and petroleum marketers. We also utilize tradeshows, advertising and other awareness campaigns to market our products and services.

In marketing our products and services, we emphasize the size and reach of our card acceptance networks, the benefits of our purchasing controls and
reporting functionality and a commitment to high standards of customer service. We utilize proprietary and third-party databases to develop our prospect universe, and segment those prospects by various characteristics, including industry, geography,
fleet size and credit score, to identify potential customers. We develop customized offers for different types of potential customers and work to deliver those offers through the most effective marketing channel. We actively manage prospects across
our various marketing channels to optimize our results and avoid marketing channel conflicts.

Our primary means of acquiring new customers
include:



•Field sales—Our direct sales team includes approximately 140 field sales representatives, as of December 31, 2011, who conduct
face-to-face sales presentations and product demonstrations with prospects, assist with post-sale program implementation and training and provide in-person account management. Our field sales force generally targets fleets with 15 or more vehicles
or cards. Field sales representatives also attend and manage our marketing at tradeshows.



•Telesales—We had approximately 160 telesales representatives handling inbound and outbound sales calls as of December 31, 2011.
Our inbound call volume is primarily generated as a result of referrals, direct marketing, point-of-sale marketing and the internet. Our outbound phone calls typically target fleets that have expressed an initial interest in our services or have
been identified through database analysis as prospective customers. Our telesales teams generally target fleets with 15 or fewer vehicles or cards. We also leverage our telesales channel to cross-sell additional products to existing customers.



•Direct marketing—We market directly to potential fleet customers via mail and email. We test various program offers and promotions,
and adopt the most successful features into subsequent direct marketing initiatives. We seek to enhance the sales conversion rates of our direct marketing efforts by coordinating timely follow-up calls by our telesales teams.



•Point-of-sale marketing—We provide marketing literature at the point-of-sale within our proprietary networks and those of major oil
companies and petroleum marketers. Literature may include “take-one” applications, pump-top advertising and in-store advertising. Our point-of-sale marketing leverages the branding and distribution reach of the physical merchant locations.



•Internet marketing— We manage numerous marketing websites around the world and purchase both banner and pay-per-click
advertisements. Our marketing websites tend to fall into two categories: product-specific websites and marketing portals. Our Web advertisements focus on key words and sites frequently used by our target customers.







Index to Financial Statements

•Product-specific websites—Our product-specific websites, including fuelman.com, cfnnet.com, checkinncard.com and keyfuels.co.uk,
focus on one or more specific products, provide the most in-depth information available online regarding those particular products, allow prospects to apply for cards online (where appropriate) and allow customers to access and manage their accounts
online. We manage product-specific websites for our own proprietary card programs as well as card programs of select oil companies and petroleum marketers.



•Marketing portals—Our marketing portals, including fleetcardsUSA.com and fuelcards.co.uk, serve as information sources for fleet
operators interested in fleet card products. In addition to providing helpful information on fleet management, including maintenance, tax reporting and fuel efficiency, these websites allow fleet operators to research card products, compare the
features and benefits of multiple products, and identify the card product which best meets the fleet manager’s needs. Our exclusive FleetMatch™ technology matches an operator’s information, including fleet size, geographic span of
operations and fuel type usage, to the benefits and features of our various fleet card products and provides a customized product recommendation to the fleet manager.

As part of our internet marketing strategy, we monitor and modify our marketing websites to improve our search engine rankings and test our advertising keywords to optimize our pay-per-click advertising
spend among the major internet search firms such as Google and Yahoo.





•



Strategic relationships

Account management



•Customer service, account activation, account retention.We provide account management and customer services with approximately 590
service professionals as of December 31, 2011. Based in dedicated call centers across our key markets, these professionals handle transaction authorizations, billing questions and account changes. Customers also have the opportunity to
self-service their accounts through interactive voice response and online tools. We monitor the quality of the service we provide to our customers by adhering to industry standard service levels with respect to abandon rates and answer times and
through regular agent call monitoring. We also conduct regular customer surveys to ensure customers are satisfied with our products and services. In addition to our base customer service support, we provide the following specialized services:



•Welcome and activation—We have dedicated teams that contact and welcome our new customers. These teams focus on successful
activation and utilization of our new customers and provide training and education on the use of our products and services.



•Strategic account management—We assign designated account managers who serve as the single point of contact for our large fleets.
Our account managers have in-depth knowledge of our







Index to Financial Statements

programs and our customers’ operations and objectives. Our account managers train fleet operators and support them on the operation and optimal use of our programs, oversee account setup and
activation, review online billing and create customized reports. Our account managers also prepare periodic account reviews, provide specific information on trends in their accounts and work together to identify and discuss major issues and emerging
needs of large fleets.



•Account retention—We have proprietary, proactive strategies to contact customers who may be at risk of terminating their
relationship with us. Through these strategies we seek to address service concerns, enhance product structures and provide customized solutions to address customer issues.



•Merchant network services—Our representatives work with merchants such as fuel and vehicle maintenance providers to enroll them in
one of our proprietary networks, install and test all network and terminal software and hardware and train them on the sale and transaction authorization process. In addition, our representatives provide transaction analysis and site reporting and
address settlement issues.



•Credit underwriting and collections.We follow detailed application credit review, account management, and collections procedures
for all our fleet customers. We use multiple levers including billing frequency, payment terms, spending limits and security to manage risk in our portfolio.



•New account underwriting.We use a combination of quantitative, third-party credit scoring models and judgmental underwriting
to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit terms and spend limits. Our underwriting process provides additional scrutiny for large credit amounts and we utilize tiered credit approval authority among our management.



•Prepaid and secured accounts.We also offer products and services on a prepaid or fully-secured basis. Prepaid customer
accounts are funded with an initial deposit and subsequently debited for each purchase transacted on the cards issued to the customer. Fully-secured customer accounts are funded with an initial deposit equal to the anticipated purchase volume for a
given timeframe. The deposit is held until such time as the customer either fails to pay the account or closes its account after paying outstanding amounts. Under either approach, our prepaid and fully-secured offerings allow us to market to a
broader universe of prospects, including customers who might otherwise not meet our credit standards.



•Monitoring and account management.We have developed proprietary fraud detection programs to monitor transactions and prevent misuse
of our products. We monitor the credit quality of our portfolio monthly utilizing external credit scores and internal behavior data to identify high risk or deteriorating credit quality accounts. We conduct targeted strategies to minimize exposure
to high risk accounts, including reducing spending limits and payment terms or requiring additional security.



•Collections.As accounts become delinquent, we may suspend future transactions based on our risk assessment of the account.
Our collections strategy includes a combination of internal and outsourced resources which use both manual and dialer-based calling strategies. We use a segmented collection strategy which prioritizes higher risk and higher balance accounts. For
severely delinquent, high balance accounts we may pursue legal remedies.

Competition

We face considerable competition in our business. The most significant competitive factors in our business are the breadth of product and service
features, network acceptance size, customer service and account management and price. We believe that we generally compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. However, we may experience competitive disadvantages with respect to each of
these factors from time to time as potential customers prioritize or value these competitive factors differently. As a result, a specific offering of our products and service features, networks and pricing may serve as a competitive advantage with
respect to one customer and a disadvantage for another based on the customers’ preferences.







Index to Financial Statements

We compete with independent fleet card providers, providers of card outsourcing services and major financial
services companies as well as major oil companies and petroleum marketers that issue their own fleet cards. We also compete with providers of alternative payment mechanisms, such as financial institutions that issue corporate and consumer credit
cards, and merchants offering house accounts as well as other forms of credit. Our primary independent fleet card competitors are Wright Express Corporation, Comdata Corporation and U.S. Bank Voyager Fleet Systems Inc. in North America and Wright
Express Corporation, Edenred and Sodexo, Inc. internationally.

Technology

Our technology provides continuous authorization of transactions, processing of critical account and client information and settlement between merchants, issuing companies and individual commercial
entities. We recognize the importance of state-of-the-art, secure, efficient and reliable technology in our business and have made significant investments in our applications and infrastructure. In 2011, we spent more than $27 million in capital and
operating expenses to operate, protect and enhance our technology and we expect to spend approximately $35 million in 2012 due in part to the integration of our Mexican prepaid card business and our UK fuel card business (Allstar) acquisitions
during the second half of 2011.

Our technology function comprises approximately 130 employees, as of December 31, 2011, based in the
United States and Europe with expertise in the management of applications, transaction networks and infrastructure. We operate application development centers in the United States, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Russia and Czech Republic. Our
distributed application architecture allows us to maintain, administer and upgrade our systems in a cost-effective and flexible manner. We integrate our systems with third-party vendor applications for certain products, sales and customer
relationship management and back-office support. Our technology organization has undertaken and successfully executed large scale projects to develop or consolidate new systems, convert oil company and petroleum marketer systems and integrate
acquisitions while continuing to operate and enhance existing systems.

Our technology infrastructure is supported by best-in-class,
highly-secure data centers, with redundant locations. We operate three primary data centers, located in Atlanta, Georgia, Prague, Czech Republic and Las Vegas, Nevada. We use only proven, client-server technology and have no foreseeable capacity
limitations. Our systems meet the highest standards for security with multiple industry certifications. Our network is configured with multiple layers of security to isolate our databases from unauthorized access. We use sophisticated security
protocols for communication among applications, and our employees access critical components on a need-only basis. As of December 31, 2011, we have not experienced any breaches in network, application or data security.

We maintain up-to-date disaster recovery and business continuity plans. Our telecommunications and internet systems have multiple levels of redundancy to
ensure reliability of network service. In 2011, we experienced 99.99% up-time for authorizations.

Proprietary processing systems

We operate several proprietary processing systems that provide the features and functionality to run our card programs, including our
card issuing, processing and information services. Our processing systems also integrate with our proprietary networks, which provide brand awareness and connectivity to our acceptance locations that enables the “end-to-end” card
acceptance, data capture and transaction authorization capabilities of our card programs. Our proprietary processing systems are tailored to meet the unique needs of the individual markets they serve.

Intellectual property

Our intellectual
property is an essential element of our business. We use trademark, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. We own







Index to Financial Statements

trademark registrations supporting a number of our brands, such as
FleetCor®, Fuelman®, FleetNet®, FleetCards USA®, CFN®, and Mannatec®in the United
States. We also own trademark registrations in various European jurisdictions for a number of our brands, such as
Keyfuels®, The Fuelcard Company®, CCS®, iMonitor®, Transit Card®,and Allstar®. Our employees involved in technology development in
some of the countries in which we operate, including the United States, are required to sign agreements acknowledging that all intellectual property created by them on our behalf is owned by us. We also have stringent internal policies regarding the
protection, disclosure and use of our confidential information.

Regulatory

A substantial number of laws and regulations, both in the United States and in other jurisdictions, apply to businesses offering payment cards to customers or processing or servicing for payment cards and
related accounts. In the United States, these laws apply primarily to consumer cards, which are cards used to make purchases for personal, family or household purposes. Because our payment cards are limited to purchases for business purposes only,
they are typically classified as commercial cards and are generally not subject to many of the laws and regulations applicable to consumer cards. As a result, our business is less regulated than one that provides products or services to consumers;
yet, we are still subject to significant domestic and foreign regulation.

The following, while not exhaustive, is a description of several
federal and state laws and regulations in the United States that are applicable to our business. The laws and regulations of other jurisdictions also affect us, and they may be more or less restrictive than those in the United States and may also
impact different parts of our operations. In addition, the legal and regulatory framework governing our business is subject to ongoing revision, and changes in that framework could have a significant effect on us.

Federal Trade Commission Act

The
Federal Trade Commission Act empowers the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, to regulate unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices affecting commerce. While this power is generally exercised to protect consumers, the FTC
has sometimes taken action on behalf of small businesses. A number of state laws and regulations also prohibit unfair and deceptive business practices.

Truth in Lending Act

The Truth in Lending Act, or TILA, was enacted to increase
consumer awareness of the cost of credit and is implemented by Regulation Z. Most provisions of TILA and Regulation Z apply only to the extension of consumer credit, but a limited number apply to commercial cards as well. One example where TILA and
Regulation Z are generally applicable is a limitation on liability for unauthorized use, although a business that acquires 10 or more credit cards for its personnel can agree to more expansive liability. Our cardholder agreements generally provide
for these business customers to waive, to the fullest extent possible, all limitations on liability for unauthorized card use.

Credit
Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009

The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of
2009 amended provisions of TILA that affect consumer credit and also directed the Federal Reserve Board to study the use of credit cards by small businesses and to make legislative recommendations. The report concluded that it is not clear whether
the potential benefits outweigh the increased cost and reduced credit availability if the disclosure and substantive restrictions applicable to consumer cards were to be applied to small business cards. Legislation has been introduced to increase
the protections afforded to small businesses that use payment cards. If legislation of this kind were enacted, our products and services for small businesses could be impacted.







Index to Financial Statements

Equal Credit Opportunity Act

The Equal Credit Opportunity Act, or ECOA, together with Regulation B prohibit creditors from discriminating on certain prohibited bases, such as an applicant’s sex, race, nationality, age and
marital status, and further requires that creditors disclose the reasons for taking any adverse action against an applicant or a customer seeking credit.

The Fair Credit Reporting Act

The Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, regulates
consumer reporting agencies and the disclosure and use of consumer reports. We may obtain consumer reports with respect to an individual who guarantees or otherwise is obligated on a commercial card.

FACT Act

The Fair and Accurate
Credit Transactions Act of 2003 amended FCRA and requires creditors to adopt identity theft prevention programs to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft in connection with covered accounts, which can include business accounts for which there
is a reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft.

Bank Secrecy Act

The Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, which is also known as the Bank Secrecy Act and which has been amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, contains a variety of provisions aimed at
fighting terrorism and money laundering. Among other things, the Bank Secrecy Act and implementing regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury Department require financial-services providers to establish anti-money laundering programs, to report
suspicious activity, and to maintain a number of related records. We maintain anti-money laundering controls designed to prevent our network from being used for money laundering or terrorist financing.

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, effected comprehensive revisions to a wide array of federal laws governing financial institutions, financial
services, and financial markets. Among its most notable provisions is the creation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which is charged with regulating consumer financial products or services and which is assuming much of the rulemaking
authority under TILA, ECOA, FCRA, and other federal laws affecting the extension of credit. The implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act is still in its early stages, and as a result, its overall impact remains far from clear. Its provisions, however,
are sufficiently far reaching that, even though our industry was not targeted, it is possible that we could be directly or indirectly impacted. For example, a provision of the law requires credit card issuers to collect and report information
regarding applications made by women and minority owned businesses and small businesses. We are preparing for this requirement, but proposed regulations have not been published.

Payment card industry rules

Partner banks issuing payment cards bearing the
MasterCard brand, and FleetCor to the extent that we provide certain services in connection with those cards and fleet customers acting as merchants accepting those cards, must comply with the bylaws, regulations and requirements that are
promulgated by MasterCard and other applicable payment-card organizations, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard developed by MasterCard and VISA, the MasterCard Site Data Protection Program and other applicable data-security
program requirements.







Index to Financial Statements

State usury laws

Extensions of credit under many of our card products may be treated as commercial loans. In some states, usury laws limit the interest rates that can be charged not only on consumer loans but on
commercial loans as well. To the extent that these usury laws apply, we are limited in the amount of interest that we can charge and collect from our customers. Because we have substantial operations in multiple jurisdictions, we utilize choice of
law provisions in our cardholder agreements as to the laws of which jurisdiction to apply. In addition, the interest rates on certain of our card products are set based upon the usury limit of the cardholder’s state. With respect to card
products where we work with a partner or issuing bank, the partner bank may utilize the law of the jurisdiction applicable to the bank and “exports” the usury limit of that state in connection with cards issued to residents of other states
or we may use our choice of law provisions.

Other laws and regulations

We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations governing privacy, data security, and breach notification. We are also subject to debt-collection laws and to bankruptcy and other debtor-relief laws
that can affect our ability to collect amounts owed to us.

Employees and labor relations

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 2,130 employees, approximately 700 of whom were located in the United States. None of our
employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good and have never experienced a work stoppage.

Additional Information

Our website address iswww.fleetcor.com. You may obtain free
electronic copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to such reports required to be filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, at our website under the headings “Investor Relations—SEC Filing.”







Index to Financial Statements

ITEM X. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, with their respective ages as of December 31, 2011. Our
officers serve at the discretion of our board of directors. There are no family relationships between any of our directors or executive officers.



NameAgePosition(s)Ronald F. Clarke56Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of DirectorsEric R. Dey52Chief Financial OfficerTodd W. House40President—U.S. Direct Business and Chief Operating OfficerRobert P. Brandes51Executive Vice President—Global Business ProductsJohn S. Coughlin44Executive Vice President—Corporate DevelopmentJeffrey D. Lamb54Executive Vice President—Global Strategy and U.S. Sales and MarketingWilliam J. Schmit55President—North American Partner BusinessTimothy J. Downs54President—Corporate Lodging ConsultantsCharles Freund39President—Developing MarketsAndrew R. Blazye53Chief Executive Officer—FleetCor Europe

Ronald F. Clarkehas been our Chief Executive Officer since August 2000 and was appointed Chairman of our board of
directors in March 2003. From 1999 to 2000, Mr. Clarke served as President and Chief Operating Officer of AHL Services, Inc., a staffing firm. From 1990 to 1998, Mr. Clarke served as chief marketing officer and later as a division
president with Automatic Data Processing, Inc., a computer services company. From 1987 to 1990, Mr. Clarke was a principal with Booz Allen Hamilton, a global management consulting firm. Earlier in his career, Mr. Clarke was a marketing
manager for General Electric Company, a diversified technology, media, and financial services corporation.

Eric R. Deyhas been our
Chief Financial Officer since November 2002. From October 2000 to October 2002, Mr. Dey served as Chief Financial Officer of NCI Corporation, a call center company. From July 1999 to October 2000, Mr. Dey served as Chief Financial Officer
of Leisure Time Technology, a software development/manufacturing company. From 1994 to 1999, Mr. Dey served as Corporate Controller with Excel Communications, a telecommunications service provider. From 1984 to 1994, Mr. Dey held a variety
of financial and accounting positions with PepsiCo, Inc., a global beverage, snack and food company.

Todd W. Househas been our
President—U.S. Direct Business since December 2010 and our Chief Operating Officer since April 2009. From July 2007 to April 2009, Mr. House held various positions, including Chief Financial Officer, with Axiant, LLC, a provider of
financial services and recovery management solutions. From April 2005 to July 2007, Mr. House was Vice President and Chief Credit Officer with Carmax, Inc., an automobile retailer. From August 1993 to April 2005, Mr. House was Vice
President–Credit Risk Management with Capital One Financial Corp., a financial services company. On November 20, 2009, Axiant, LLC filed a petition for bankruptcy under the federal bankruptcy laws.

Robert P. Brandeshas been with us since June 2002. Mr. Brandes was named our Executive Vice President—Global Business Products
effective December 2010. From September 2009 to December 2010, Mr. Brandes served as our President—Universal Fleet Cards. Mr. Brandes served as Senior Vice President—Product Management from December 2008 to September 2009, Senior
Vice President—Co-Brand from January 2007 to December 2008 and Vice President—Marketing from June 2002 to January 2007.

John S.
Coughlinhas served as our Executive Vice President—Corporate Development since September 2010. From 2007 to 2010, Mr. Coughlin served as a Managing Director at PCG Capital Partners, a private equity firm. From 2005 to 2006,
Mr. Coughlin served as Chief Executive Officer of NCDR LLC (dba Kool Smiles), a private equity owned national dental practice management company. From 1994 to 2005, Mr. Coughlin was with The Parthenon Group, a strategic advisory and
principal investment firm, where he was a Senior Partner and the founder and head of the firm’s San Francisco office.







Index to Financial Statements

Jeffrey D. Lambjoined us in December 2010 and serves as our Executive Vice President—Global
Strategy and U.S. Sales and Marketing. In July 2005, Mr. Lamb co-founded Socius Capital, LLC, an independent financial sponsor and management company to small and medium-sized businesses, and served as its Managing Director until December 2010.
Since December 2008, Mr. Lamb has served on the Board of Managers of Wazee Companies, LLC, an electrical repair and maintenance service provider. Between July 2006 and March 2009, Mr. Lamb served on the Board of Directors of On the Scene
Productions, Inc., a video production company for the public relations industry. Mr. Lamb also served as the Chief Executive Officer of On the Scene Productions, Inc. between July 2006 and February 2008. On the Scene Productions, Inc. filed its
voluntary petition for bankruptcy liquidation under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in October 2009. From 2001 to 2004, Mr. Lamb was Senior Director of Worldwide Marketing for the service division of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (acquired by Oracle
Corporation in January 2010), a provider of network computing infrastructure solutions.

William J. Schmit, Jr.has served as our
President—Major Oil Card Programs since November 2005. From April 1999 to November 2005, Mr. Schmit served as our Senior Vice President—Private Label Programs.

Timothy J. Downsjoined us as President—Corporate Lodging Consultants in connection with our acquisition of CLC Group, Inc. in April 2009. Prior to joining us, Mr. Downs held various
positions with Corporate Lodging Consultants, including Vice President Technology from May 1999 to September 2004 and as Executive Vice President Operations from September 2004 to April 2009.

Charles Freundwas named our President—Developing Markets effective December 2010 and has been with us since 2000. From January 2009 to December 2010, Mr. Freund served as our Senior Vice
President—Corporate Strategy. Mr. Freund served as our Managing Director—The Fuelcard Company UK Limited from June 2006 to December 2008. Prior to June 2006, Mr. Freund served as our Vice President of Business Development.

Andrew R. Blazyehas served as our Chief Executive Officer—FleetCor Europe, since July 2007. From April 2006 to June 2007,
Mr. Blazye was a Group Director for Dunnhumby Ltd., a research firm. From September 1980, to March 2006, Mr. Blazye held various positions with Shell International Ltd., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc, a global energy company,
including Global Payments General Manager.







Index to Financial Statements

