ITEM 1.Business

BUSINESS

Overview

Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a REIT with a highly diversified portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties located throughout the United States and Canada.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned nearly1,500properties, including seniors housing communities, MOBs, skilled nursing and other facilities, and hospitals, in46states, the District of Columbia andtwoCanadian provinces, and we hadthreenew properties under development.  Our company was originally incorporated under the laws of Kentucky in 1983, commenced operations in 1985, reorganized as a Delaware corporation in 1987 and is currently headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.

We primarily acquire and own seniors housing and healthcare properties and lease them to unaffiliated tenants or operate them through independent third-party managers.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we leased a total of907properties (excluding MOBs and properties classified as held for sale) to various healthcare operating companies under “triple-net” or “absolute-net” leases that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and we engaged independent operators, such as Atria and Sunrise, to manage239of our seniors housing communities for us pursuant to long-term management agreements.

Through our Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. (“Lillibridge”) subsidiary and our ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC (“PMBRES”), we also provide MOB management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States.  In addition, from time to time, we make secured and unsecured loans and other investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties.

We conduct our operations through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties; senior living operations; and MOB operations.  See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, including “Note 2—Accounting Policies,” included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Strategy

We aim to enhance shareholder value by delivering consistent, superior total returns through a strategy of: (1) generating reliable and growing cash flows; (2) maintaining a balanced, diversified portfolio of high-quality assets; and (3) preserving our financial strength, flexibility and liquidity.

Generating Reliable and Growing Cash Flows

Generating reliable and growing cash flows from our seniors housing and healthcare assets enables us to pay regular cash dividends to stockholders and creates opportunities to increase shareholder value through profitable investments.  The combination of steady contractual growth from our long-term triple-net leases and stable cash flows from our MOBs with the higher growth potential inherent in our seniors housing operating communities drives our ability to generate sustainable, growing cash flows that are resilient to economic downturns.

Maintaining a Balanced, Diversified Portfolio

We believe that maintaining a balanced portfolio of high-quality assets diversified by geographic location, asset type, tenant/operator, revenue source and operating model diminishes the risk that any single factor or event could materially harm our business.  Portfolio diversification also enhances the reliability of our cash flows by reducing our exposure to any individual tenant, operator or manager and making us less susceptible to single-state regulatory or reimbursement changes, regional climate events and local economic downturns.

Preserving Our Financial Strength, Flexibility and Liquidity

A strong, flexible balance sheet and excellent liquidity position us favorably to capitalize on strategic growth opportunities in the seniors housing and healthcare industries through acquisitions, investments, and development and redevelopment projects. We maintain our financial strength to pursue profitable investment opportunities by actively managing our leverage, improving our cost of capital and preserving our access to multiple sources of liquidity, including unsecured bank debt, mortgage financings and the public debt and equity markets.










2013Highlights

•We paid an annual cash dividend on our common stock of$2.735per share, which represents an increase of more than10%over the prior year.

•We invested approximately$1.8 billionin seniors housing communities, MOBs and loans and other investments.

•We invested approximately $96 million in redevelopment and development projects across each of our three segments.

•We generated cash flows from operations of approximately$1.2 billion, which represents an increase of more than 20% over 2012.

•We renewed, sold or transitioned to new operators all 89 licensed healthcare assets leased by Kindred whose lease terms expired during the second quarter of 2013, and we entered into favorable agreements with Kindred to extend the leases at a higher rental rate with respect to48of the108licensed healthcare assets whose lease terms were originally scheduled to expire on April 30, 2015 (the “2015 Renewal Assets”).  See “Significant Tenants, Operators and Managers—Triple-Net Leased Properties—Kindred Master Leases.”

•We issued and sold$1.6 billionaggregate principal amount of senior notes having a weighted average interest rate of3.3%and a weighted average initial maturity of13.6years.

•We entered into a new $3 billion unsecured credit facility, comprised of a $2 billion revolving credit facility initially priced at 100 basis points over LIBOR, and a $200 million four-year term loan and an $800 million five-year term loan, each initially priced at 105 basis points over LIBOR.

•We established an “at-the-market” equity offering program through which we may sell up to an aggregate of$750.0 millionof our common stock, and we issued and sold a total of2,069,200shares at an average price of$69.42per share for aggregate net proceeds (after sales agent commissions) of$141.5 millionunder the program.

•We sold assets, including loans, and received final repayment on loans receivable for aggregate proceeds of approximately$358 million.










Portfolio Summary

The following table summarizes our portfolio of properties and other investments, excluding investments in unconsolidated entities and properties classified as held for sale, as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2013:

Real Estate Property InvestmentsRevenuesAsset Type# ofProperties(1)# ofUnits/Beds/Sq. Ft.(2)Real Estate Property Investment, at CostPercent ofTotal Real Estate Property InvestmentsReal EstatePropertyInvestment Per Unit/Bed/Sq. Ft.Revenue(3)Percent of Total RevenuesNumberofStates/Provinces(4)(Dollars in thousands)Seniors housing communities69461,604$14,003,81664.3%$227.3$1,818,81264.7%46MOBs (5)30916,687,9253,963,70518.20.2467,91616.729Skilled nursing and other facilities37141,8392,940,61713.570.3344,11412.241Hospitals473,820495,4542.3129.7118,9564.218Total properties1,42121,403,59298.32,749,79897.849Loans and investments376,2291.758,2082.1Other——2,0470.1Total$21,779,821100.0%$2,810,053100.0%



nm—not meaningful.

(1)Excludes20seniors housing communities,18MOBs and14skilled nursing facilities included in investments in unconsolidated entities.  Also excludeseightseniors housing communities,sevenskilled nursing facilities, andfourMOBs classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2013.

(2)Seniors housing communities are measured in units; MOBs are measured by square footage; and skilled nursing and other facilities and hospitals are measured by bed count.

(3)Revenues relate to the actual period of ownership and do not necessarily reflect a full year.

(4)As ofDecember 31, 2013, our consolidated properties were located in46states, the District of Columbia andtwoCanadian provinces and, excluding MOBs, were operated or managed by72different third-party healthcare operating companies, including the following publicly traded companies or their subsidiaries:  Brookdale (145properties); Kindred (142properties); Emeritus Corporation (16properties) and Capital Senior Living Corporation (12properties).

(5)As ofDecember 31, 2013, we leased30of our consolidated MOBs pursuant to triple-net leases, Lillibridge or PMBRES managed258of our consolidated MOBs and44of our consolidated MOBs were managed by15different third-party managers.  Through Lillibridge and PMBRES, we provided management and leasing services to third parties with respect to81MOBs as ofDecember 31, 2013.

Seniors Housing and Healthcare Properties

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned1,473seniors housing and healthcare properties, including investments in unconsolidated entities, but excluding properties classified as held for sale, as follows:

Consolidated(100% interest)Consolidated(<100% interest)Unconsolidated(5-25% interest)TotalSeniors housing communities685920714MOBs2822718327Skilled nursing and other facilities365614385Hospitals461—47Total1,37843521,473

Seniors Housing Communities

Our seniors housing communities include independent and assisted living communities, continuing care retirement communities and communities providing care for individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia or memory loss.  These communities offer studio, one bedroom and two bedroom residential units on a month-to-month basis primarily to










elderly individuals requiring various levels of assistance.  Basic services for residents of these communities include housekeeping, meals in a central dining area and group activities organized by the staff with input from the residents.  More extensive care and personal supervision, at additional fees, are also available for such needs as eating, bathing, grooming, transportation, limited therapeutic programs and medication administration, which allow residents certain conveniences and enable them to live as independently as possible according to their abilities.  These services are often met by home health providers, close coordination with the resident’s physician and skilled nursing facilities.  Charges for room, board and services are generally paid from private sources.

Medical Office Buildings

Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to several different unrelated medical practices, although they can be associated with a large single specialty or multi-specialty group.  Tenants include physicians, dentists, psychologists, therapists and other healthcare providers, with space devoted to patient examination and treatment, diagnostic imaging, outpatient surgery and other outpatient services.  While MOBs are similar to commercial office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate physicians’ requirements such as sinks in every room, brighter lights and specialized medical equipment.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned or managed for third parties approximately 21 million square feet of MOBs, a significant majority of which are located on or near an acute care hospital campus (“on campus”).

Skilled Nursing and Other Facilities

Our skilled nursing facilities provide rehabilitative, restorative, skilled nursing and medical treatment for patients and residents who do not require the high technology, care-intensive, high cost setting of an acute care or rehabilitation hospital.  Treatment programs include physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and other therapies, including sub-acute clinical protocols such as wound care and intravenous drug treatment.  Charges for these services are generally paid from a combination of government reimbursement and private sources.

Our personal care facilities provide specialized care, including supported living services, neurorehabilitation, neurobehavioral management and vocational programs, for persons with acquired or traumatic brain injury.

Hospitals

Substantially all of our hospitals are operated as long-term acute care hospitals, which have a Medicare average length of stay greater than 25 days and serve medically complex, chronically ill patients who require a high level of monitoring and specialized care, but whose conditions do not necessitate the continued services of an intensive care unit.  The operators of these hospitals have the capability to treat patients who suffer from multiple systemic failures or conditions such as neurological disorders, head injuries, brain stem and spinal cord trauma, cerebral vascular accidents, chemical brain injuries, central nervous system disorders, developmental anomalies and cardiopulmonary disorders.  Chronic patients often depend on technology for continued life support, such as mechanical ventilators, total parenteral nutrition, respiration or cardiac monitors and dialysis machines, and, due to their severe medical conditions, generally are not clinically appropriate for admission to a nursing facility or rehabilitation hospital.  All of our long-term acute care hospitals are freestanding facilities, and we do not own any “hospitals within hospitals.”  We also own two hospitals focused on providing children’s care and five rehabilitation hospitals devoted to the rehabilitation of patients with various neurological, musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions following stabilization of their acute medical issues.

Geographic Diversification of Properties

Our portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties is broadly diversified by geographic location throughout the United States and Canada, with properties in onlyonestate (California) accounting for more than 10% of our total revenues and total net operating income (“NOI,” which is defined as total revenues, excluding interest and other income, less property-level operating expenses and medical office building services costs) (in each case excluding amounts in discontinued operations) for the year endedDecember 31, 2013.










The following table shows our rental income and resident fees and services by geographic location for the year endedDecember 31, 2013:

Rental Income andResident Fees andServices (1)Percent of TotalRevenues (1)(Dollars in thousands)Geographic LocationCalifornia$407,34714.5%New York280,30610.0Texas190,6356.8Illinois132,4024.7Florida116,2534.1Massachusetts113,9324.1Pennsylvania105,6793.8New Jersey85,2993.0North Carolina81,9152.9Arizona79,5262.8Other (36 states and the District of Columbia)1,045,50037.2Total U.S2,638,79493.9%Canada (two Canadian provinces)93,1953.3Total$2,731,98997.2%(2)



(1)Rental income and resident fees and services relate to the actual period of ownership and do not necessarily reflect a full year.  This presentation excludes revenues from properties sold during2013and properties classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2013.

(2)The remainder of our total revenues is medical office building and other services revenue, income from loans and investments and interest and other income.

The following table shows our NOI by geographic location for the year endedDecember 31, 2013:

NOI (1)Percent of TotalNOI (1)(Dollars in thousands)Geographic LocationCalifornia$225,37113.3%Texas128,4807.6New York114,5806.8Illinois84,6205.0Florida78,6404.7Massachusetts76,8664.6Indiana58,6883.5North Carolina58,1343.4Wisconsin54,0473.2Ohio52,6293.1Other (36 states and the District of Columbia)710,65442.0Total U.S1,642,70997.2%Canada (two Canadian provinces)47,3502.8Total$1,690,059100.0%



(1)NOI relates to the actual period of ownership and does not necessarily reflect a full year.  This presentation excludes NOI from properties sold during2013and properties classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2013.










See “Note 20—Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the geographic diversification of our portfolio.

Certificates of Need

Our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are generally subject to federal, state and local licensure statutes and statutes that may require regulatory approval, in the form of a certificate of need (“CON”) issued by a governmental agency with jurisdiction over healthcare facilities, prior to the expansion of existing facilities, construction of new facilities, addition of beds, acquisition of major equipment or introduction of new services.  CON requirements, which are not uniform throughout the United States, may restrict our or our operators’ ability to expand our properties in certain circumstances.

The following table shows the percentages of our rental income (excluding amounts in discontinued operations) for the year endedDecember 31, 2013that are derived by skilled nursing facilities and hospitals in states with and without CON requirements:

SkilledNursingFacilitiesHospitalsTotalStates with CON requirements67.2%49.6%62.7%States without CON requirements32.850.437.3Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

Loans and Investments

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had$414.7 millionof net loans receivable and investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties.  Our loans receivable and investments provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees and are typically secured by mortgage liens or leasehold mortgages on the underlying properties and corporate or personal guarantees by affiliates of the borrowing entity.  In some cases, the loans are secured by a pledge of ownership interests in the entity or entities that own the related seniors housing or healthcare properties.  See “Note 6—Loans Receivable and Investments” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Development and Redevelopment Projects

We are party to certain agreements that obligate us to develop healthcare or seniors housing properties.  The construction of these properties is funded through capital that we and, in certain circumstances, our joint venture partners provide.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we hadthreenew properties under development pursuant to these agreements.  In addition, from time to time, we engage in redevelopment projects with respect to our existing seniors housing communities to maximize the value, increase NOI, maintain a market-competitive position, achieve property stabilization or change the primary use of the property.

Segment Information

We evaluate our performance and allocate resources based on three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties; senior living operations; and MOB operations.  Non-segment assets, classified as “all other,” consist primarily of corporate assets, including cash, restricted cash, deferred financing costs, loans receivable and investments, and miscellaneous accounts receivable.  For further information regarding our business segments, see “Note 20—Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.










Significant Tenants, Operators and Managers

The following table provides information regarding our tenant, operator and manager concentration as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2013:Number ofPropertiesLeased orManaged (1)Percent of Total Real Estate Investments (2)Percent of Total Revenues (3)Percent ofNOI (3)Senior living operations23933.9%50.2%26.6%Brookdale Senior Living (4)1459.75.69.2Kindred1423.28.113.4



(1)Excludes properties classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2013.

(2)Based on gross book value (excluding properties classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2013andsixproperties included in investments in unconsolidated entities).

(3)Amounts relate to the actual period of ownership and do not necessarily reflect a full year.  Excludes amounts in discontinued operations.  NOI is defined as total revenues, less interest and other income, property-level operating expenses and medical office building services costs.

(4)Excludessixproperties included in investments in unconsolidated entities.

Triple-Net Leased Properties

Each of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living and our master lease agreements with Kindred (the “Kindred Master Leases”) is a triple-net lease that obligates the tenant to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties. In addition, each of these leases has guaranty and cross-default provisions tied to other leases with the same tenant or its affiliates, as well as bundled lease renewals (as described in more detail below).

The properties we lease to Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred accounted for a significant portion of our triple-net leased properties segment revenues and NOI and had a meaningful impact on our total revenues and NOI for the year ended

December 31, 2013

Brookdale Senior Living Leases

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we leased a total of145properties to Brookdale Senior Living, excluding properties classified as held for sale andsixproperties included in investments in unconsolidated entities, pursuant to multiple lease agreements. Our leases with Brookdale Senior Living have an average term of 15 years and are subject to two or more successive five- or ten-year renewal terms at Brookdale Senior Living’s option, provided certain conditions are satisfied.

Under the terms of our leases, Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates annually at a specified rate over the prior period base rent.  For2014, the current aggregate contractual cash base rent due to us from Brookdale Senior Living, excluding variable interest that Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay as additional rent based on certain floating rate mortgage debt, is approximately$156.5 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”)) due to us from Brookdale Senior Living, excluding the variable interest, is approximately$153.9 million(in each case, excluding six properties included in investments in unconsolidated entities and properties classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2013).  See “Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” and “Note 14—Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.










Kindred Master Leases

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we leased a total of142properties to Kindred pursuant to five Kindred Master Leases.  The properties leased pursuant to our Kindred Master Leases are grouped into bundles, or “renewal groups,” with each renewal group containing a varying number of geographically diversified properties.  All properties within a single renewal group have the same current lease term of five to ten years, and each renewal group is currently subject to one or more successive five-year renewal terms at Kindred’s option, provided certain conditions are satisfied.  Kindred’s renewal option is “all or nothing” with respect to the properties contained in each renewal group.

The aggregate annual rent we receive under each Kindred Master Lease is referred to as “base rent.”  Base rent escalates annually at a specified rate over the prior period base rent, with base rent escalation under the four original Kindred Master Leases contingent upon the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters.  The annual rent escalator under three Kindred Master Leases is 2.7%, and the annual rent escalator under the other two Kindred Master Leases is based on year-over-year changes in CPI, subject to floors and caps.

During 2013, we renewed, sold or transitioned to new operators all 89 licensed healthcare assets leased by Kindred whose lease terms expired during the second quarter of 2013.  Specifically, Kindred irrevocably renewed for a five-year term three renewal groups covering a total of 25 properties, and we entered into a fifth Kindred Master Lease originally with respect to ten long-term acute care hospitals.  The fifth Kindred Master Lease has an initial term of ten years (which commenced May 1, 2013) and is subject to three successive five-year, “all or nothing” renewal terms at Kindred’s option.  Of the remaining 54 skilled nursing facilities, we leased 50 properties to eight qualified healthcare operators pursuant to new long-term triple-net leases (the “New Leases”) and we sold four properties.  The New Leases have an average weighted initial lease term of more than 11 years.

In September 2013, we entered into favorable agreements with Kindred to extend the leases with respect to 48 of the 108 licensed healthcare assets comprising the 2015 Renewal Assets.  Current aggregate annual rent for the 2015 Renewal Assets is $138 million.  The 48 re-leased properties consist of 26 skilled nursing facilities and 22 long-term acute care hospitals.  New annual rent, commencing October 1, 2014, will be$95.9 million, an increase of$15 millionover then current annual base rent.  On October 1, 2013, Kindred also paid us $20 million, which will be amortized over the new lease terms.

We have launched a comprehensive project to re-lease to qualified healthcare operators or otherwise reposition the remaining 60 skilled nursing facilities included in the 2015 Renewal Assets (the “Marketed Assets”).  As part of our agreements, we and Kindred agreed to accelerate the expiration of the lease term for the Marketed Assets to September 30, 2014.  Kindred is required to continue to perform all of its obligations, including without limitation, payment of all rental amounts, under the applicable Kindred Master Lease for the Marketed Assets until expiration of the current lease term. Subject to the terms of our agreements, we have the flexibility to transition the Marketed Assets either before or after the September 30, 2014 lease expiration date.  Moreover, we own or have the rights to all licenses and CONs at the properties, and Kindred has extensive and detailed obligations to cooperate and ensure an orderly transition of the properties to another operator.

We believe the net effect from the re-leasing or repositioning of the Marketed Assets will not materially impact our results of operations in 2014 or 2015.  However, we cannot assure you of the actual impact of these transactions on our future operations, nor can we assure you as to whether, when or on what terms we will be able to re-lease or reposition any or all of the Marketed Assets to qualified healthcare operators.  Our ability to re-lease or reposition the Marketed Assets could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing or change-of-ownership proceedings.  In addition, we may be required to fund certain expenses and incur obligations to preserve the value of, or avoid the imposition of liens on, the Marketed Assets while they are being re-leased or repositioned.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Assuming that all of the Marketed Assets are re-leased or repositioned on or prior to September 30, 2014 and assuming the applicable facility revenue parameters are met, we currently expect that approximately $206.8 million of aggregate base rent will be due under the five Kindred Master Leases during the year ending December 31, 2014.  See “Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Senior Living Operations

As ofDecember 31, 2013, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to237of our seniors housing communities, for which we pay annual management fees pursuant to long-term management agreements.  Most of our management agreements with Atria have initial terms expiring December 31, 2027, with successive automatic ten-year renewal periods.  The management fees we pay to Atria under the Atria management










agreements are equal to 5% of revenues generated by the applicable properties, plus an incentive management fee of up to an additional 1% of revenues based on the achievement of specified performance targets.  Most of our management agreements with Sunrise have terms ranging from 25 to 30 years (which commenced as early as 2004 and as recently as 2012).  The management fees we pay to Sunrise under the Sunrise management agreements range from 5% to 7% of revenues generated by the applicable properties.  For the year endedDecember 31, 2013, the management fees (including incentive fees) we paid pursuant to our Sunrise management agreements were equal to6.4%of revenues generated by the applicable properties.  See “Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our 34% ownership interest in Atria entitles us to certain rights and minority protections, as well as the right to appoint two members to the Atria board of directors.

Competition

We generally compete for investments in seniors housing and healthcare assets with publicly traded, private and non-listed healthcare REITs, real estate partnerships, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do.  Increased competition challenges our ability to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives, which is affected by, among other factors, the availability of suitable acquisition or investment targets, our ability to negotiate acceptable acquisition or investment terms and our access to and cost of capital.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our pursuit of investments in and acquisitions of, or our development or redevelopment of, seniors housing and healthcare assets may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and “Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our tenants, operators and managers also compete on a local and regional basis with other healthcare operating companies that provide comparable services.  Seniors housing community, skilled nursing facility and hospital operators compete to attract and retain residents and patients to our properties based on scope and quality of care, reputation and financial condition, price, location and physical appearance of the properties, services offered, qualified personnel, physician referrals and family preferences.  In the case of MOBs, we and our third-party managers compete to attract and retain tenants based on many of the same factors, in addition to quality of the affiliated health system, physician preferences and proximity to hospital campuses.  The ability of our tenants, operators and managers to compete successfully could be affected by private, federal and state reimbursement programs and other laws and regulations.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by healthcare regulation and enforcement” and “—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had465employees, including303employees associated with our MOB operations reportable business segment, but excluding1,315employees at our Canadian seniors housing communities under the supervision and control of our manager, Sunrise.  Although Sunrise is responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our Canadian seniors housing communities, we bear many of the costs and risks generally borne by employers,










particularly with respect to those properties with unionized labor.  None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement, other than those employees in the Canadian seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise.  We believe that relations with our employees are positive.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our operating assets expose us to various operational risks, liabilities and claims that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues or increase our costs and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Insurance

We maintain or require in our lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations.  We believe that the amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and the policies required to be maintained by our tenants, operators and managers are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry.  Although we regularly monitor our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ compliance with their respective insurance requirements, we cannot assure you that they will maintain the required insurance coverages, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by our tenants, operators and managers to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  We also cannot assure you that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, that such insurance coverage will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the policies maintained will fully cover all losses related to our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event, nor can we assure you of the future financial viability of the insurers.

We maintain the property insurance for all of our senior living operations, as well as the general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations managed by Atria.  However, Sunrise maintains the general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations that it manages in accordance with the terms of our management agreements.  Under our management agreements with Sunrise, we may elect, on an annual basis, whether we or Sunrise will bear responsibility for maintaining the required insurance coverage for the applicable properties, but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains the insurance.

Through our MOB operations, we provide engineering, construction and architectural services in connection with new development projects, and any design, construction or systems failures related to the properties we develop could result in substantial injury or damage to our clients or third parties.  Any such injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed projects.  Although we maintain liability insurance to protect us against these claims, if any claim results in a loss, we cannot assure you that our policy limits would be adequate to cover the loss in full.  If we sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to pay the difference and we could lose our investment in, or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

For various reasons, including to reduce and manage costs, many healthcare companies utilize different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or captive programs that may provide less coverage than a traditional insurance policy.  As a result, companies that self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  The implementation of a trust or captive by any of our tenants, operators or managers could adversely affect such person’s ability to satisfy its obligations under, or otherwise comply with the terms of, its respective lease, management and other agreements with us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  Likewise, if we decide to implement a captive or self-insurance program, any large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses that we incur could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Additional Information

We maintain a website at www.ventasreit.com.  The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.

We make available, free of charge, through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  In addition, our Guidelines on Governance, our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters for each of our Audit and Compliance, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Executive Compensation Committees are available on our website, and we will mail copies of the foregoing documents to stockholders, free of charge, upon request to our Corporate Secretary at Ventas, Inc., 353 North Clark Street, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois 60654.










GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

Healthcare Regulation

Overview

For the year endedDecember 31, 2013, approximately16%of our total revenues and30%of our total NOI (in each case excluding amounts in discontinued operations) were attributable to skilled nursing and other facilities and hospitals in which our tenants receive reimbursement for their services under governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. We are neither a participant in, nor a direct recipient of, any reimbursement under these programs with respect to those facilities.

Although the properties within our portfolio may be subject to varying levels of governmental scrutiny, we expect that the healthcare industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others.  We also expect that efforts by third-party payors, such as the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs and private insurance carriers (including health maintenance organizations and other health plans), to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls upon operators (through changes in reimbursement rates and methodologies, discounted fee structures, the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk or otherwise) will intensify and continue.  A significant expansion of applicable federal, state or local laws and regulations, existing or future healthcare reform measures, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, changes in enforcement priorities, or significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed or reductions in reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on certain of our operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.

Licensure, Certification and CONs

In general, the operators of our skilled nursing facilities must be licensed on an annual or biannual basis and certified annually through various regulatory agencies that determine compliance with federal, state and local laws to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Legal requirements pertaining to such licensure and certification relate to the quality of nursing care provided by the operator, qualifications of the operator’s administrative personnel and nursing staff, adequacy of the physical plant and equipment and continuing compliance with laws and regulations governing the operation of skilled nursing facilities.  The failure to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval or to correct serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey could prevent an operator from continuing operations at a property, and a loss of licensure or certification could adversely affect a skilled nursing facility operator’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.

The operators of our hospitals must meet the applicable conditions of participation established by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) and comply with state and local laws and regulations in order to receive Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement.  Such conditions relate to the type of hospital and its equipment, personnel and standard of medical care, and hospital operators must undergo periodic on-site licensure surveys, which generally are limited if the hospital is accredited by The Joint Commission (formerly the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) or other recognized accreditation organizations.  A loss of licensure or certification could adversely affect a hospital operator’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.

In addition, many of our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are subject to state CON laws that require governmental approval prior to the development or expansion of healthcare facilities and services.  The approval process in these states generally requires a facility to demonstrate the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services.  CONs, where applicable, are also sometimes necessary for changes in ownership or control of licensed facilities, addition of beds, investment in major capital equipment, introduction of new services or termination of services previously approved through the CON process.  CON laws and regulations may restrict an operator’s ability to expand our properties and grow its business in certain circumstances, which could have an adverse effect on the operator’s revenues and, in turn, its ability to make rental payments under and otherwise comply with the terms of our leases.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Compared to skilled nursing facilities and hospitals, seniors housing communities are subject to relatively few, if any, federal regulations.  Instead, to the extent they are regulated, such regulation consists primarily of state and local laws governing licensure, provision of services, staffing requirements and other operational matters, which vary greatly from one










jurisdiction to another.  Although recent growth in the U.S. seniors housing industry has attracted the attention of various federal agencies that believe more federal regulation of these properties is necessary, Congress thus far has deferred to state regulation of seniors housing communities.  However, as a result of this growth and increased federal scrutiny, some states have revised and strengthened their regulation of seniors housing communities, and more states are expected to do the same in the future.

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement

Federal and state laws and regulations prohibit a wide variety of fraud and abuse by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or make or receive referrals for work in connection with government-funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.  These federal laws include, among others:

•The anti-kickback statute (Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act), which prohibits certain business practices and relationships, including the payment, receipt or solicitation of any remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce a referral of any patient or service or item covered by a federal health care program, including Medicare, or a state health program, such as Medicaid;

•The physician self-referral prohibition (Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the “Stark Law”), which prohibits referrals by physicians of Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of a broad range of designated healthcare services with which the physicians (or their immediate family members) have ownership interests or certain other financial arrangements;

•The False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment by the federal government (including the Medicare and Medicaid programs);

•The Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes HHS to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent acts; and

•The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (commonly referred to as “HIPAA”), which among other things, protects the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information by limiting its use and disclosure.

Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and civil penalties, such as punitive sanctions, damage assessments, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments, and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  These laws also impose an affirmative duty on operators to ensure that they do not employ or contract with persons excluded from the Medicare and other governmental healthcare programs.

Many states have adopted or are considering legislative proposals similar to the federal anti-fraud and abuse laws, some of which extend beyond the Medicare and Medicaid programs, to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and physician self-referrals, regardless of whether the service was reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid. Many states have also adopted or are considering legislative proposals to increase patient protections, such as minimum staffing levels, criminal background checks, and limiting the use and disclosure of patient specific health information.  These state laws also impose criminal and civil penalties similar to the federal laws.

In the ordinary course of their business, the operators of our properties have been and are subject regularly to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee applicable laws and regulations.  Increased funding through recent federal and state legislation and the creation of a series of new healthcare crimes by HIPAA have led to a significant expansion in the number and scope of investigations and enforcement actions over the past several years.  Private enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that were designed to encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits by private individuals, known as qui tam suits, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former patients or nurses and other employees.

As federal and state budget pressures persist, administrative agencies may continue to escalate their investigation and enforcement efforts to eliminate waste and control fraud and abuse in governmental healthcare programs.  A violation of  federal or state anti-fraud and abuse laws or regulations by an operator of our properties could have a material adverse effect on the operator’s liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.

Reimbursement

In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, along with a reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Affordable Care Act”). The passage of the Affordable Care Act has resulted in comprehensive reform legislation that is expected to expand health care coverage to millions of currently uninsured people beginning in 2014.  To help fund this expansion, the Affordable Care Act










outlines certain reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates for various healthcare providers, including long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain other changes to Medicare payment methodologies.

The Affordable Care Act, among other things, reduced the inflationary market basket increase included in standard federal payment rates for long-term acute care hospitals by 25 basis points in fiscal year 2010, 50 basis points in fiscal year 2011, 10 basis points in fiscal years 2012 and 2013, 30 basis points in fiscal year 2014, 20 basis points in fiscal years 2015 and 2016, and 75 basis points in fiscal years 2017 through 2019.  In addition, under the Affordable Care Act, long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are subject to a rate adjustment to the annual market basket increase to reflect improvements in productivity.  In July 2012, after considering the constitutionality of various provisions of the Affordable Care Act, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the so-called individual mandate and, while it found the provisions expanding Medicaid eligibility unconstitutional, determined that the issue was appropriately remedied by circumscribing the Secretary of Health and Human Services’ enforcement authority, thus leaving the Medicaid expansion intact.

Healthcare is one of the largest industries in the United States and continues to attract a great deal of legislative interest and public attention.  We cannot assure you that existing or future healthcare reform legislation or changes in the administration or implementation of governmental and non-governmental healthcare reimbursement programs will not have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, or on their ability to satisfy their obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

In August 2011, President Obama and the U.S. Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “Budget Control Act”) to increase the federal government’s borrowing authority (the so-called “debt ceiling”) and reduce the federal government’s projected operating deficit.  Under the Budget Control Act, a 2% reduction in Medicare payments to long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities (part of $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts commonly referred to as “sequestration”) was expected to take effect on February 1, 2013.  Although delayed by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, this 2% reduction became effective on April 1, 2013.  These measures or any future federal legislation relating to the debt ceiling or deficit reduction could have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations and their ability to satisfy their obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Medicare Reimbursement; Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals

The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (“BBA”) mandated the creation of a prospective payment system for long-term acute care hospitals (“LTAC PPS”) for cost reporting periods commencing on or after October 1, 2002.  LTAC PPS requires payment for a Medicare beneficiary at a predetermined, per discharge amount for each defined patient category (called “Long-Term Care—Diagnosis Related Groups” or “LTC-DRGs”), adjusted for differences in area wage levels.  Updates to LTAC PPS payment rates are established by regulators and published annually for the long-term acute care hospital rate year, which coincides with annual updates to the LTC-DRG classification system and corresponds to the federal fiscal year (October 1 through September 30).

The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (Pub. L. No. 110-173) (the “Medicare Extension Act”) significantly expanded medical necessity reviews by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) by requiring long-term acute care hospitals to institute a patient review process to better assess patients upon admission and on a continuing basis for appropriateness of care.  In addition, the Medicare Extension Act, among other things, provided the following long-term acute care hospital payment policy changes for a period of three years, all of which were extended for two additional years by the Affordable Care Act:

•Prevention of the application of the “25-percent rule,” which limits payments from referring co-located hospitals, to freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals;

•Modification of the application of the 25-percent rule to certain urban and rural long-term acute care “hospitals-within-hospitals” and “satellite” facilities;

•Prevention of the application of the “very short stay outlier” policy; and

•Prevention of any one-time adjustments to correct estimates used in implementing LTAC PPS.

Lastly, the Medicare Extension Act introduced a moratorium on new long-term acute care hospitals and beds for three years, which was subsequently extended by the Affordable Care Act and expired on December 29, 2012.  In its May 2008 final rule, CMS delayed the extension of the 25-percent rule to freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals and increased the patient percentage thresholds for certain urban and rural long-term acute care “hospitals-within-hospitals” and “satellite” facilities for three years, as mandated by the Medicare Extension Act, and set forth policies on implementing the moratorium on new long-term acute care hospitals and beds imposed by the Medicare Extension Act.










In its August 2009 final rule, CMS finalized policies to implement changes required by Section 124 of the Medicare Improvements for Patients & Providers Act of 2008 (Pub. L. No. 110-275), continuing reforms intended to improve the accuracy of Medicare payments for inpatient acute care through the severity-adjusted diagnosis-related group (MS-LTC-DRG) classification system for long-term acute care hospitals.

In its August 2012 final rule, CMS delayed the extension of the 25-percent rule to freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals for another year until December 29, 2013.

On December 26, 2013, President Obama signed into law the Pathway for SGR Reform Act of 2013 (the “Pathway for SGR Reform Act”), which prevented a scheduled cut to the Medicare Part B physician fee schedules from taking effect on January 1, 2014.  Also known as the “doc fix,” this reprieve from the Medicare payment cut is effective for a period of 90 days (until March 31, 2014), while Congress works to find a permanent solution, and includes several provisions impacting payments to long-term acute care hospitals.  Among other things, the Pathway for SGR Reform Act establishes new patient criteria for long-term acute care hospitals to receive reimbursement for services to Medicare beneficiaries at the LTAC PPS rate, rather than the acute inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”) rate, and requires CMS to establish a process for a long-term acute care hospital subject to the IPPS payment rate to re-qualify for payment under LTAC PPS.  The Pathway for SGR Reform Act also delays full implementation of the 25-percent rule for three years, through fiscal year 2017, and extends the current moratorium on establishing or increasing long-term acute care beds (with certain exceptions) through September 30, 2017.

We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s rules and other federal legislation on the operators of our long-term acute care hospitals, but we cannot assure you that current rules or future updates to LTAC PPS, LTC-DRGs or Medicare reimbursement for long-term acute care hospitals will not materially adversely affect our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Medicare Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities

The BBA also mandated the creation of a prospective payment system for skilled nursing facilities (“SNF PPS”) offering Part A covered services.  Under SNF PPS, payment amounts are based upon classifications determined through assessments of individual Medicare patients in the skilled nursing facility, rather than on the facility’s reasonable costs.  SNF PPS payments, which are made on a per diem basis for each resident, are generally intended to cover all inpatient services for Medicare patients, including routine nursing care, most capital-related costs associated with the inpatient stay and ancillary services, such as respiratory therapy, occupational and physical therapy, speech therapy and certain covered drugs.

In response to widespread healthcare industry concern about the reductions in payments under the BBA, the federal government enacted the Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999 (“BBRA”).  The BBRA increased the per diem reimbursement rates for certain high acuity patients by 20% from April 1, 2000 until CMS refined the resource utilization groups (“RUGs”) used to determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities in the 2006 fiscal year.  The BBRA also imposed a two-year moratorium on the annual cap mandated by the BBA on physical, occupational and speech therapy services provided to a patient by outpatient rehabilitation therapy providers, including Part B covered therapy services in nursing facilities.  Although extended multiple times by Congress, relief from the BBA therapy caps expired on December 31, 2009.










Under its final rule updating LTC-DRGs for the 2007 fiscal year, CMS reduced reimbursement of uncollectible Medicare coinsurance amounts for all beneficiaries (other than beneficiaries of both Medicare and Medicaid) from 100% to 70% for skilled nursing facility cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2005 and set forth various options for classifying and weighting patients transferred to a skilled nursing facility after a hospital stay less than the mean length of stay associated with that particular diagnosis-related group.

Under its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2010 fiscal year, CMS recalibrated the case-mix indexes for RUGs used to determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities and implemented the RUG-IV classification model for skilled nursing facilities for the 2011 fiscal year.  However, the Affordable Care Act delayed the implementation of RUG-IV for one year, and CMS subsequently modified the implementation schedule in its notice updating SNF PPS for the 2011 fiscal year.

In its final rule updating the Medicare physician fee schedule for the 2012 calendar year, CMS set a $1,880 cap on physical therapy and speech-language pathology services and a separate $1,880 cap on occupational therapy services, including therapy provided in skilled nursing facilities, both without an exceptions process.  However, in January 2013, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (Pub. L. No. 112-96) was enacted to lift the caps on therapy services and require a manual review process for those exceptions for which the beneficiary therapy services exceed $3,700 in a year.  The Pathway for SGR Reform Act maintains the status quo for outpatient therapy services by extending the exceptions process for outpatient therapy caps through March 31, 2014.

On August 6, 2013, CMS published its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2014 fiscal year (October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014).  Under the final rule, the SNF PPS standard federal payment rate will increase by 1.3% in fiscal year 2014, reflecting a 2.3% increase in the market basket index, less a 0.5% forecast error adjustment and a 0.5% productivity adjustment mandated by the Affordable Care Act.  CMS estimates that net payments to skilled nursing facilities will increase by approximately $470 million in fiscal year 2014.

We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s rules and other federal legislation on the operators of our skilled nursing facilities, but we cannot assure you that current rules or future updates to SNF PPS, therapy services or Medicare reimbursement for skilled nursing facilities will not materially adversely affect our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Medicaid Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities

Approximately two-thirds of all skilled nursing facility residents are dependent on Medicaid.  Medicaid reimbursement rates, however, typically are less than the amounts charged by the operators of our skilled nursing facilities.  Although the federal government and the states share responsibility for financing Medicaid, states have a wide range of discretion, within certain federal guidelines, to determine eligibility and reimbursement methodology.  In addition, federal legislation limits an operator’s ability to withdraw from the Medicaid program by restricting the eviction or transfer of Medicaid residents.  As state budget pressures continue to escalate and in an effort to address actual or potential budget shortfalls, many state legislatures have enacted or proposed reductions to Medicaid expenditures by implementing “freezes” or cuts in Medicaid rates paid to providers, including hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, or by restricting eligibility and benefits.

In the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (Pub. L. No. 109 171), Congress made changes to the Medicaid program that were estimated to result in $10 billion in savings to the federal government over the five years following enactment of the legislation, primarily through the accounting practices some states use to calculate their matched payments and revising the qualifications for individuals who are eligible for Medicaid benefits.  The changes made by CMS’s final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2006 fiscal year were also anticipated to reduce Medicaid payments to skilled nursing facility operators, and as part of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 (Pub. L. No. 109-432), Congress reduced the ceiling on taxes that states may impose on healthcare providers and that would qualify for federal financial participation under Medicaid by 0.5%, from 6% to 5.5%, until October 1, 2011.  However, it was anticipated that this reduction would have a negligible effect, impacting only those states with taxes in excess of 5.5%.

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. No. 111-5) (the “Recovery Act”), in contrast, temporarily increased federal payments to state Medicaid programs by $86.6 billion through, among other things, a 6.2% increase in the federal share of Medicaid expenditures across the board, with additional funds available depending on a state’s federal medical assistance percentage and unemployment rate.  Though the Medicaid federal assistance payments were originally expected to expire on December 31, 2010, the President’s fiscal year 2011 budget extended those payments through June 30, 2011. The Recovery Act also requires states to promptly pay nursing facilities under their Medicaid program, and precludes states, as a condition of receiving the additional funding, from heightening their Medicaid eligibility requirements.










We expect more states to adopt significant Medicaid rate freezes or cuts or other program changes as their reimbursement methodologies continue to evolve.  In addition, the U.S. government may revoke, reduce or stop approving “provider taxes” that have the effect of increasing Medicaid payments to the states.  We cannot predict the impact that any such actions would have on our skilled nursing facility operators, nor can we assure you that payments under Medicaid are now or in the future will be sufficient to fully reimburse those operators for the cost of providing skilled nursing services.  Severe and widespread Medicaid rate cuts or freezes could materially adversely affect our skilled nursing facility operators, which, in turn, could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.

Environmental Regulation

As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health and safety matters.  These laws and regulations address, among other things, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, fuel oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions, radioactive materials, medical wastes, and hazardous wastes, and, in certain cases, the costs of complying with these laws and regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be substantial.  With respect to our properties that are operated or managed by third parties, we may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property from which there is or has been an actual or threatened release of a regulated material and any other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release.  Such costs typically are not limited by law or regulation and could exceed the property’s value.  In addition, we may be liable for certain other costs, such as governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources, as a result of any such actual or threatened release.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—We could incur substantial liabilities and costs if any of our properties are found to be contaminated with hazardous substances or we become involved in any environmental disputes” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Under the terms of our lease, management and other agreements, we generally have a right to indemnification by the tenants, operators and managers of our properties for any contamination caused by them.  However, we cannot assure you that our tenants, operators and managers will have the financial capability or willingness to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness to do so may require us to satisfy the underlying environmental claims.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our leases with Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred generate a meaningful portion of our revenues and operating income; Any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living or Kindred to satisfy its obligations under our agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In general, we have also agreed to indemnify our tenants and operators against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or relating to, the leased properties at any time before the applicable lease commencement date.  With respect to our senior living operating portfolio, we have agreed to indemnify our managers against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition on those properties, unless the manager caused or contributed to that condition.

We did not make any material capital expenditures in connection with environmental, health, and safety laws, ordinances and regulations in2013and do not expect that we will be required to make any such material capital expenditures during2014.

CERTAIN U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS

The following discussion summarizes certain U.S. federal income tax considerations that may be relevant to you as a holder of our common stock.  It is not tax advice, nor does it purport to address all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be important to particular stockholders in light of their personal circumstances or to certain types of stockholders, such as insurance companies, tax-exempt organizations (except to the extent discussed below under “—Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders”), financial institutions, pass-through entities (or investors in such entities) or broker-dealers, and non-U.S. individuals and entities (except to the extent discussed below under “—Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders”), that may be subject to special rules.

The statements in this section are based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), U.S. Treasury Regulations, Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) rulings, and judicial decisions now in effect, all of which are subject to change or different interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect.  The laws governing the U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and their stockholders are highly technical and complex, and this discussion is qualified in its entirety by the authorities listed above.  We cannot assure you that new laws, interpretations of law or court decisions will not cause any statement herein to be inaccurate.










Federal Income Taxation of Ventas

We elected REIT status beginning with the year ended December 31, 1999.  We believe that we have satisfied the requirements to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes for all tax years starting in 1999, and we intend to continue to do so.  By qualifying for taxation as a REIT, we generally are not subject to federal income tax on net income that we currently distribute to stockholders, which substantially eliminates the “double taxation” (i.e., taxation at both the corporate and stockholder levels) that results from investment in a corporation.

Notwithstanding such qualification, we are subject to federal income tax on any undistributed taxable income, including undistributed net capital gains, at regular corporate rates.  In addition, we are subject to a 4% excise tax if we do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements.  See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements.”  Under certain circumstances, we may be subject to the “alternative minimum tax” on our undistributed items of tax preference.  If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” (as described below) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or certain other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on that income.  See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Asset Tests.”  In addition, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions” (which are, in general, certain sales or other dispositions of property (other than foreclosure property) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business), that income is subject to a 100% tax.

We also may be subject to “Built-in Gains Tax” on any appreciated asset that we own or acquire that was previously owned by a C corporation (i.e., a corporation generally subject to full corporate-level tax).  If we dispose of any such asset and recognize gain on the disposition during the ten-year period immediately after the asset was owned by a C corporation (either prior to our REIT election, or through stock acquisition or merger), then we generally are subject to regular corporate income tax on the gain equal to the lesser of the recognized gain at the time of disposition or the built-in gain in that asset as of the date it became a REIT asset.

If we fail to satisfy either of the gross income tests for qualification as a REIT (as discussed below), but maintain such qualification under the relief provisions of the Code, we will be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable test, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability.  In addition, if we violate one or more of the REIT asset tests (as discussed below), we may avoid a loss of our REIT status if we qualify under certain relief provisions and, among other things, pay a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying asset during a specified period.  If we fail to satisfy any requirement for REIT qualification, other than the gross income or assets tests mentioned above, but maintain such qualification by meeting certain other requirements, we may be subject to a $50,000 penalty for each failure.  Finally, we will incur a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary (including rental income derived from leasing properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary) that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis.

See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT” below for other circumstances in which we may be required to pay federal taxes.

Requirements for Qualification as a REIT

To qualify as a REIT, we must meet the requirements discussed below relating to our organization, sources of income, nature of assets and distributions of income to stockholders.

Organizational Requirements

The Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association: (i) that is managed by one or more directors or trustees; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) that would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for Sections 856 through 859 of the Code; (iv) that is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code; (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (the “100 Shareholder Rule”); (vi) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year (the “5/50 Rule”); (vii) that makes an election to be a REIT (or has made such election for a prior taxable year) and satisfies all relevant filing and other administrative requirements established by the IRS that must be met in order to elect and to maintain REIT status; (viii) that uses a calendar year for federal income tax purposes; and (ix) that meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income and assets.

We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have satisfied and will continue to satisfy the organizational requirements for qualification as a REIT.  Although our certificate of incorporation contains certain limits on the ownership of our stock that are










intended to prevent us from failing the 5/50 Rule or the 100 Shareholder Rule, we cannot assure you as to the effectiveness of those limits.

To qualify as a REIT, a corporation also may not have (as of the end of the taxable year) any earnings and profits that were accumulated in periods before it elected REIT status or that are from acquired non-REIT corporations.  We believe that we have not had any accumulated earnings and profits that are attributable to non-REIT periods or from acquired corporations that were not REITs, although the IRS is entitled to challenge that determination.

Gross Income Tests

We must satisfy two annual gross income requirements to qualify as a REIT:

•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must consist of defined types of income derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property (including pledges of equity interest in certain entities holding real property and also including “rents from real property” (as defined in the Code)) and, in certain circumstances, interest on certain types of temporary investment income; and

•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must be derived from such real property or temporary investments, dividends, interest and gain from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, or from any combination of the foregoing.

We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with these gross income tests.  If we fail to satisfy one or both tests for any taxable year, we nevertheless may qualify as a REIT for that year if we qualify under certain relief provisions of the Code, in which case we would be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable test.  If we fail to satisfy one or both tests and do not qualify under the relief provisions for any taxable year, we will not qualify as a REIT for that year, which would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Asset Tests

At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must satisfy the following tests relating to the nature of our assets:

•At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by cash or cash items (including certain receivables), government securities, “real estate assets” (including interests in real property and in mortgages on real property and shares in other qualifying REITs) or, in cases where we raise new capital through stock or long-term (i.e., having a maturity of at least five years) debt offerings, temporary investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following our receipt of such capital (the “75% asset test”); and

•Of the investments not meeting the requirements of the 75% asset test, the value of any single issuer’s debt and equity securities that we own (other than our equity interests in any entity classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the stock or debt of a taxable REIT subsidiary or the stock or debt of a qualified REIT subsidiary or other disregarded entity subsidiary) may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets (the “5% asset test”), and we may not own more than 10% of any single issuer’s outstanding voting securities (the “10% voting securities test”) or more than 10% of the value of any single issuer’s outstanding securities (the “10% value test”), subject to limited “safe harbor” exceptions.

In addition, no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “25% TRS test”).

We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with the asset tests described above.  If we fail to satisfy one or more asset tests at the end of any quarter, we nevertheless may continue to qualify as a REIT if we satisfied all of the asset tests at the close of the preceding calendar quarter and the discrepancy between the value of our assets and the asset test requirements is due to changes in the market values and not caused in any part by our acquisition of non-qualifying assets.

Furthermore, if we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests at the end of any calendar quarter without curing that failure within 30 days after quarter end, we would fail to qualify as a REIT unless we qualified under certain relief provisions enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  Under one relief provision, we would continue to qualify as a REIT if our failure to satisfy the 5% asset test, the 10% voting securities test or the 10% value test is due to our ownership of assets having a total value not exceeding the lesser of 1% of our assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10 million and we disposed of those assets (or otherwise met such asset tests) within six months after the end of the quarter in which the failure was identified.  If we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests for a particular quarter but do not qualify under the relief provision described in the preceding sentence, then we would be deemed to have satisfied the relevant asset test if: (i) following identification of the










failure, we filed a schedule containing a description of each asset that caused the failure; (ii) the failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect; (iii) we disposed of the non-qualifying asset (or otherwise met the relevant asset test) within six months after the end of the quarter in which the failure was identified; and (iv) we paid a penalty tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying asset during the period beginning on the first date of the failure and ending on the date we disposed of the asset (or otherwise cured the asset test failure).  We cannot predict whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions, and if we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests and do not qualify for the relief provisions, we will lose our REIT status, which would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Foreclosure Property

The foreclosure property rules permit us (by our election) to foreclose or repossess properties without being disqualified as a REIT as a result of receiving income that does not qualify under the gross income tests.  However, in such a case, we would be subject to a corporate tax on the net non-qualifying income from “foreclosure property,” and the after-tax amount would increase the dividends we would be required to distribute to stockholders.  See “—Annual Distribution Requirements” below.  The corporate tax imposed on non-qualifying income would not apply to income that qualifies as “good REIT income,” such as a lease of qualified healthcare property to a taxable REIT subsidiary, where the taxable REIT subsidiary engages an “eligible independent contractor” to manage and operate the property.

Foreclosure property treatment will end on the first day on which we enter into a lease of the applicable property that will give rise to income that does not constitute “good REIT income” under Section 856(c)(3) of the Code, but will not end if the lease will give rise only to good REIT income.  Foreclosure property treatment also will end if any construction takes place on the property (other than completion of a building or other improvement that was more than 10% complete before default became imminent).  Foreclosure property treatment (other than for qualified healthcare property) is available for an initial period of three years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional three years.  Foreclosure property treatment for qualified healthcare property is available for an initial period of two years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional four years.

Taxable REIT Subsidiaries

A taxable REIT subsidiary, or “TRS,” is a corporation subject to tax as a regular C corporation.  Generally, a TRS can own assets that cannot be owned by a REIT and can perform tenant services (excluding the direct or indirect operation or management of a lodging or healthcare facility) that would otherwise disqualify the REIT’s rental income under the gross income tests.  Notwithstanding general restrictions on related party rent, a REIT can lease healthcare properties to a TRS if the TRS does not manage or operate the properties and instead engages an eligible independent contractor to manage them.  We are permitted to own up to 100% of a TRS, subject to the 25% TRS test, but the Code imposes certain limits on the ability of the TRS to deduct interest payments made to us.  In addition, we are subject to a 100% penalty tax on any excess payments received by us or any excess expenses deducted by the TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties.

Annual Distribution Requirements










We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for the year of our initial REIT election and each subsequent year through the year endedDecember 31, 2013.  Although we intend to satisfy the annual distribution requirements to continue to qualify as a REIT for the year ending December 31,2014and thereafter, economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations could limit our ability to meet those requirements.

We have net operating loss carryforwards that we may use to reduce our annual distribution requirements.  See “Note 13—Income Taxes” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Failure to Continue to Qualify

If we fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT qualification, other than by violating a gross income or asset test for which relief is available under the circumstances described above, we would retain our REIT qualification if the failure is due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect and if we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each such failure.  We cannot predict whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of this relief provision.

If our election to be taxed as a REIT is revoked or terminated (e.g., due to a failure to meet the REIT qualification tests without qualifying for any applicable relief provisions), we would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (for all open tax years beginning with the year our REIT election is revoked or terminated), and we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders, nor would we be entitled to deduct any such distributions.  All distributions to stockholders (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits) would be taxable as ordinary income, except to the extent such dividends are eligible for the qualified dividends rate generally available to non-corporate holders, and, subject to certain limitations, corporate stockholders would be eligible for the dividends received deduction.  In addition, we would be prohibited from re-electing REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions of the Code applied.  We cannot predict whether we would be entitled to such relief.

Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Stockholders

As used in this discussion, the term “U.S. Stockholder” refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, an estate the income of which may be included in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes regardless of its source, or a trust if (i) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. persons have authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (ii) the trust has elected under applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations to retain its pre-August 20, 1996 classification as a U.S. person.  If an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner in the partnership will generally depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.  Partners of partnerships holding our stock should consult their tax advisors.  This section assumes the U.S. Stockholder holds our common stock as a capital asset.

We may elect to treat all or a part of our undistributed net capital gain as if it had been distributed to our stockholders.  If we so elect, our stockholders would be required to include in their income as long-term capital gain their proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain, as designated by us.  Each stockholder would be deemed to have paid its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such undistributed net capital gain, and this amount would be credited or refunded to the stockholder.  In addition, the tax basis of the stockholder’s shares would be increased by its proportionate share of undistributed net capital gains included in its income, less its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such gains.










Stockholders may not include in their individual income tax returns any of our net operating losses or net capital losses. Instead, we may carry over those losses for potential offset against our future income, subject to certain limitations.  Taxable distributions from us and gain from the disposition of our common stock will not be treated as passive activity income, and, therefore, stockholders generally will not be able to apply any “passive activity losses” (such as losses from certain types of limited partnerships in which the stockholder is a limited partner) against such income.  In addition, taxable distributions from us generally will be treated as investment income for purposes of the investment interest limitations.

We will notify stockholders after the close of our taxable year as to the portions of the distributions attributable to that year that constitute ordinary income, return of capital and capital gain.  To the extent that a portion of the distribution is designated as a capital gain dividend, we will notify stockholders as to the portion that is a “20% rate gain distribution” and the portion that is an unrecaptured Section 1250 distribution.  A 20% rate gain distribution is a capital gain distribution to domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts that is taxable at a maximum rate of 20%.  An unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution is taxable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%.

Taxation of U.S. Stockholders on the Disposition of Shares of Common Stock

In general, a U.S. Stockholder who is not a dealer in securities must treat any gain or loss realized upon a taxable disposition of our common stock as long-term capital gain or loss if the stockholder has held the shares for more than one year, and otherwise as short-term capital gain or loss.  However, a U.S. Stockholder must treat any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our common stock held for six months or less as a long-term capital loss to the extent of capital gain dividends and any other actual or deemed distributions from us which the stockholder treats as long-term capital gain.  All or a portion of any loss that a U.S. Stockholder realizes upon a taxable disposition of our common stock may be disallowed if the stockholder purchases other shares of our common stock (or certain options to acquire our common stock) within 30 days before or after the disposition.

Medicare Tax on Investment Income

Certain U.S. stockholders who are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds are required to pay a 3.8% Medicare tax on dividends and certain other investment income, including capital gains from the sale or other disposition of our common stock.

Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders

Tax-exempt organizations, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts (collectively, “Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation but are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”).  While many investments in real estate generate UBTI, a ruling published by the IRS states that dividend distributions by a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust.  Based on that ruling, and subject to the exceptions discussed below, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI.  However, if an Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of our common stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the “debt-financed property” rules.  Social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans that are exempt from taxation under paragraphs (7), (9), (17) and (20), respectively, of Section 501(c) of the Code are subject to different UBTI rules, which generally require them to characterize distributions from us as UBTI, and in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a percentage of the dividends from us as UBTI.

Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders

As used herein, the term “Non-U.S. Stockholder” refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a nonresident alien individual, foreign corporation, foreign estate or foreign trust, but does not include any foreign stockholder whose investment in our stock is “effectively connected” with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States.  Such a foreign stockholder, in general, is subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to its investment in our stock in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals).  In addition, a foreign corporation receiving income that is treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business also may be subject to an additional 30% “branch profits tax” on its effectively connected earnings and profits (subject to adjustments) unless an applicable tax treaty provides a lower rate or an exemption.  Certain certification requirements must be satisfied in order for effectively connected income to be exempt from withholding.

Distributions to Non-U.S. Stockholders that are not attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests and are not designated by us as capital gain dividends (or deemed distributions of retained capital gains) are treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits.










Such distributions ordinarily are subject to a withholding tax equal to 30% of the gross amount of the distribution unless an applicable tax treaty reduces or eliminates that tax.  Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits are not taxable to a Non-U.S. Stockholder to the extent that such distributions do not exceed the adjusted basis of the stockholder’s shares (determined on a share-by-share basis), but rather reduce the adjusted basis of those shares.  To the extent that distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the adjusted basis of a Non-U.S. Stockholder’s shares, such distributions will give rise to tax liability if the Non-U.S. Stockholder would otherwise be subject to tax on any gain from the sale or disposition of its shares, as described below.

We expect to withhold U.S. tax at the rate of 30% on the gross amount of any dividends, other than dividends treated as attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests and capital gain dividends, paid to a Non-U.S. Stockholder, unless (i) a lower treaty rate applies and the required IRS Form W-8BEN evidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is filed with us or the appropriate withholding agent or (ii) the Non-U.S. Stockholder files an IRS Form W-8ECI or a successor form with us or the appropriate withholding agent properly claiming that the distributions are effectively connected with the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

In general, the sale or other taxable disposition of our common stock by a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder also will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax if we are a “domestically controlled REIT.”  A REIT is a “domestically controlled REIT” if, at all times during the five-year period preceding the disposition in question, less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by Non-U.S. Stockholders.  Because our common stock is publicly traded, we believe, but cannot assure you, that we currently qualify as a domestically controlled REIT, nor can we assure you that we will so qualify at any time in the future.  If we do not constitute a domestically controlled REIT, a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder generally will be taxed in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder with respect to gain on the sale of our common stock (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals).

A 30% withholding tax will be imposed on dividends paid after June 30, 2014 and redemption proceeds paid after December 31, 2016 to (i) foreign financial institutions including non-U.S. investment funds, unless they agree to collect and disclose to the IRS information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. account holders and (ii) certain other foreign entities,










unless they certify certain information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. owners.  To avoid withholding, foreign financial institutions will need to (i) enter into agreements with the IRS that state that they will provide the IRS information, including the names, addresses and taxpayer identification numbers of direct and indirect U.S. account holders, comply with due diligence procedures with respect to the identification of U.S. accounts, report to the IRS certain information with respect to U.S. accounts maintained, agree to withhold tax on certain payments made to non-compliant foreign financial institutions or to account holders who fail to provide the required information, and determine certain other information as to their account holders, or (ii) in the event that an applicable intergovernmental agreement and implementing legislation are adopted, provide local revenue authorities with similar account holder information or otherwise comply with the terms of the intergovernmental agreement and implementing legislation.  Other foreign entities will need to either provide the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of each substantial U.S. owner or certifications of no substantial U.S. ownership unless certain exceptions apply or agree to provide certain information to other revenue authorities for transmittal to the IRS.

Information Reporting Requirements and Backup Withholding Tax

Information returns may be filed with the IRS and backup withholding tax (at a rate of 28%) may be collected in connection with distributions paid or required to be treated as paid during each calendar year and payments of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of our common stock by a stockholder, unless such stockholder is a corporation, non-U.S. person or comes within certain other exempt categories and, when required, demonstrates this fact or provides a taxpayer identification number, certifies as to no loss of exemption from backup withholding and otherwise complies with the applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules.  A stockholder who does not provide us with its correct taxpayer identification number also may be subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.

Backup withholding is not an additional tax.  Rather, the U.S. federal income tax liability of persons subject to backup withholding tax will be offset by the amount of tax withheld.  If backup withholding tax results in an overpayment of U.S. federal income taxes, a refund or credit may be obtained from the IRS, provided the required information is furnished timely thereto.

Other Tax Consequences

State and Local Taxes

We and our stockholders may be subject to taxation by various states and localities, including those in which we or a stockholder transact business, own property or reside.  State and local tax treatment may differ from the U.S. federal income tax treatment described above.  Consequently, stockholders should consult their own tax advisers regarding the effect of state and local tax laws, in addition to federal, foreign and other tax laws, in connection with an investment in our common stock.

Possible Legislative or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences

You should recognize that future legislative, judicial and administrative actions or decisions, which may be retroactive in effect, could adversely affect our federal income tax treatment or the tax consequences of an investment in shares of our common stock.  The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are continually under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, resulting in statutory changes as well as promulgation of new, or revisions to existing, regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts.  We cannot predict the likelihood of passage of any new tax legislation or other provisions either directly or indirectly affecting us or our stockholders or the value of an investment in our common stock.














