ITEM 1.Business



BUSINESS



Overview



Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a real estate investment trust (“REIT”)with a highly diversified portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties located throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, we owned more than1,200properties (including properties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities and properties classified as held for sale), consisting of seniors housing communities, medical office buildings (“MOBs”), life science and innovation centers, inpatient rehabilitation facilities (“IRFs”) and long-term acute care facilities (“LTACs”), health systems and skilled nursing facilities (“SNFs”), and we had14properties under development, includingfourproperties that are owned by unconsolidated real estate entities.Our company was originally founded in 1983 and is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.



We primarily invest in seniors housing and healthcare properties through acquisitions and lease our properties to unaffiliated tenants or operate them through independent third-party managers.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, we leased a total of546properties (excluding MOBs) to various healthcare operating companies under “triple-net” or “absolute-net” leases that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures.



As ofDecember 31, 2017, pursuant to long-term management agreements, we engaged independent operators, such as Atria Senior Living, Inc. (“Atria”) and Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, “Sunrise”), to manage297seniors housing communities for us.



Ourthreelargest tenants, Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “Brookdale Senior Living”), Ardent Health Partners, LLC (together with its subsidiaries, “Ardent”) and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “Kindred”) leased from us135properties (excludingoneproperty managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to a long-term management agreement),10properties and31properties (excludingoneMOB included within our office operations reportable business segment), respectively, as ofDecember 31, 2017.



Through our Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. (“Lillibridge”) subsidiary and our ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC (“PMBRES”), we also provide MOB management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States.  In addition, from time to time, we make secured and non-mortgage loans and other investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties.



We operate through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations and office operations.  See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, including “NOTE 2—ACCOUNTING POLICIES” and “NOTE 19—SEGMENT INFORMATION,” included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Business Strategy



We aim to enhance shareholder value by delivering consistent, superior total returns through a strategy of: (1) generating reliable and growing cash flows; (2) maintaining a balanced, diversified portfolio of high-quality assets; and (3) preserving our financial strength, flexibility and liquidity.



Generating Reliable and Growing Cash Flows



Generating reliable and growing cash flows from our seniors housing and healthcare assets enables us to pay regular cash dividends to stockholders and creates opportunities to increase stockholder value through profitable investments.  The combination of steady contractual growth from our long-term triple-net leases, steady, reliable cash flows from our loan investments and stable cash flows from our office buildings with the higher growth potential inherent in our seniors housing operating communities drives our ability to generate sustainable, growing cash flows that are resilient to economic downturns.










Maintaining a Balanced, Diversified Portfolio



We believe that maintaining a balanced portfolio of high-quality assets diversified by investment type, geographic location, asset type, tenant/operator, revenue source and operating model diminishes the risk that any single factor or event could materially harm our business.  Portfolio diversification also enhances the reliability of our cash flows by reducing our exposure to any individual tenant, operator or manager and making us less susceptible to single-state regulatory or reimbursement changes, regional climate events and local economic downturns.



Preserving Our Financial Strength, Flexibility and Liquidity



A strong, flexible balance sheet and excellent liquidity position us favorably to capitalize on strategic growth opportunities in the seniors housing and healthcare industries through acquisitions, investments and development and redevelopment projects. We maintain our financial strength to pursue profitable investment opportunities by actively managing our leverage, improving our cost of capital and preserving our access to multiple sources of liquidity, including unsecured bank debt, mortgage financings and public debt and equity markets.



2017Highlights and Other Recent Developments



Investments and Dispositions



•In March 2017, we provided secured debt financing to a subsidiary of Ardent to facilitate Ardent’s acquisition of LHP Hospital Group, Inc., which included a$700.0 millionterm loan and a$60.0 millionrevolving line of credit feature (of which$28.0 millionwas outstanding atDecember 31, 2017).  The LIBOR-based debt financing has a five-year term,  aone-year lock out feature and a weighted average interest rate of approximately9.3%as ofDecember 31, 2017and is guaranteed by Ardent’s parent company.



•During the year endedDecember 31, 2017, we acquired15triple-net leased properties (includingsixassets previously owned by an equity method investee),fourproperties reported within our office operations reportable business segment (threelife science, research and medical assets andoneMOB) andthreeseniors housing communities (reported within our senior living operations reportable business segment) for an aggregate purchase price of$691.3 million.



•During the year endedDecember 31, 2017, we sold53triple-net leased properties,fiveMOBs and certain vacant land parcels for aggregate consideration of$870.8 million, and we recognized a gain on the sale of these assets of$717.3 million, net of taxes.



•During the year endedDecember 31, 2017, we received aggregate proceeds of$37.6 millionfor the partial prepayment and$35.5 millionfor the full repayment of loans receivable, which resulted in total gains of$0.6 million.



Liquidity, Capital and Dividends



•In March 2017, we issued and sold$400.0 millionaggregate principal amount of3.100%senior notes due 2023 at a public offering price equal to99.280%of par, for total proceeds of$397.1 millionbefore the underwriting discount and expenses, and$400.0 millionaggregate principal amount of3.850%senior notes due 2027 at a public offering price equal to99.196%of par, for total proceeds of$396.8 millionbefore the underwriting discount and expenses.



•In April 2017, we entered into an unsecured credit facility comprised of a$3.0 billionunsecured revolving credit facility, priced at LIBOR plus0.875%, that replaced our previous$2.0 billionunsecured revolving credit facility priced at LIBOR plus1.0%.



•In April 2017, we repaid in full, at par,$300.0 millionaggregate principal amount then outstanding of our1.250%senior notes due 2017 upon maturity.



•In June 2017, we issued and soldC$275.0 millionaggregate principal amount of2.55%senior notes, Series D due 2023 at a price equal to99.954%of par, for total proceeds ofC$274.9 millionbefore the agent fees and expenses.  We used part of the proceeds to repayC$124.4 millionon our unsecured term loan due 2019.



•In August 2017, we used most of the proceeds from the sale of22SNFs to repay the balances then outstanding on the 2018 and 2019 term loans.








•In September 2017, we entered into a new$400.0 millionsecured revolving construction credit facility which matures in 2022 and will be primarily used to finance life science and innovation center and other construction projects.



•During the year endedDecember 31, 2017, we issued and sold1.1 millionshares of common stock under our “at-the-market” (“ATM”) equity offering program.  Aggregate net proceeds for these activities were$73.9 million, after sales agent commissions.



•During the year endedDecember 31, 2017, we paid the first three quarterly installments of our 2017 dividend of$0.775per share.  In December 2017, we declared the fourth quarter cash dividend on our common stock of$0.79per share, which grew by2%over third quarter2017and was paid in January 2018.



Portfolio



•The sale of the triple-net leased properties above included36SNFs, owned by us and operated by Kindred.  These assets were sold for aggregate consideration of approximately$700 millionand we recognized a gain on the sale of$657.6 million, net of taxes.



Other Recent Developments



•In January 2018, we transitioned the management of 76 private pay seniors housing communities to Eclipse Senior Living (“ESL”).  These assets, substantially all of which were previously leased by Elmcroft Senior Living (“Elmcroft”), are now operated by ESL under a management contract with us.  We acquired a 34% ownership stake in ESL with customary rights and protections.  ESL management owns the remaining 66% stake.  We also intend to form a new joint venture with an institutional partner related to the assets previously leased by Elmcroft.  However, there can be no assurance whether, when or on what terms the joint venture will be completed.



Portfolio Summary



The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio of properties and other investments as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2017:

Real Estate Property InvestmentsRevenuesAsset Type# ofProperties(1)# of Units/Sq. Ft./Beds(2)Real Estate Property Investment, at CostPercent ofTotal Real Estate Property InvestmentsReal EstatePropertyInvestment Per Unit/Bed/Sq. Ft.RevenuePercent of Total Revenues(Dollars in thousands)Seniors housing communities74765,428$16,616,50163.4%$254.0$2,342,24765.5%MOBs(3)35419,221,0035,332,81720.30.3579,36316.2Life science and innovation centers295,156,8681,940,0997.40.4174,3914.9IRFs and LTACs373,115459,7531.8147.6154,0944.3Health systems122,0641,475,9755.6715.1109,5463.1SNFs171,882204,4880.8108.764,0861.8Development properties and other10176,2000.7Total real estate investments, at cost1,206$26,205,833100.0%Income from loans and investments117,6083.3Interest and other income6,0340.2Revenues related to assets classified as held for sale826,7800.7Total revenues$3,574,149100.0%



(1)As ofDecember 31, 2017, we also owned17seniors housing communities,13SNFs andoneMOBthrough investments in unconsolidated entities.   Our consolidated properties were located in46states, the District of Columbia,sevenCanadian provinces and the United Kingdom and were operated or managed by91unaffiliated healthcare operating companies, including the following publicly traded companies or their subsidiaries:  Brookdale Senior Living (129properties) (excludingsixproperties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities andoneproperty managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to a long-term management agreement and included in the senior living operations reportable business segment); Kindred (31properties) (excludingoneMOB included in the office operations reportable business segment); 21st Century Oncology Holdings, Inc. (12properties); Capital Senior Living Corporation (sevenproperties); Spire Healthcare plc (threeproperties); and HealthSouth Corp. (fourproperties).

(2)Seniors housing communities are measured in units; MOBs and life science and innovation centers are measured by square footage; and IRFs and LTACs, health systems and SNFs are measured by bed count.








(3)As ofDecember 31, 2017, we leased65of our consolidated MOBs pursuant to triple-net leases, Lillibridge or PMBRES managed270of our consolidated MOBs and19of our consolidated MOBs were managed bysevenunaffiliated managers.  Through Lillibridge and PMBRES, we also provided management and leasing services for105MOBs owned by third parties as ofDecember 31, 2017.



Seniors Housing and Healthcare Properties



As ofDecember 31, 2017, we owned a total of1,235seniors housing and healthcare properties (including properties classified as held for sale) as follows:Consolidated(100% interest)Consolidated(<100% interest)Unconsolidated(5-25% interest)TotalSeniors housing communities738917764MOBs314481363Life science and innovation centers1811—29IRFs and LTACs361—37Health systems12——12SNFs17—1330Total1,13569311,235



Seniors Housing Communities



Our seniors housing communities include independent and assisted living communities, continuing care retirement communities and communities providing care for individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia or memory loss.  These communities offer studio, one bedroom and two bedroom residential units on a month-to-month basis primarily to elderly individuals requiring various levels of assistance.  Basic services for residents of these communities include housekeeping, meals in a central dining area and group activities organized by the staff with input from the residents.  More extensive care and personal supervision, at additional fees, are also available for such needs as eating, bathing, grooming, transportation, limited therapeutic programs and medication administration, which allow residents certain conveniences and enable them to live as independently as possible according to their abilities.  These services are often met by home health providers and through close coordination with the resident’s physician and SNFs.  Charges for room, board and services are generally paid from private sources.



Medical Office Buildings



Typically, our MOBs are multi-tenant properties leased to several unrelated medical practices, although in many cases they may be associated with a large single specialty or multi-specialty group.  Tenants include physicians, dentists, psychologists, therapists and other healthcare providers, who require space devoted to patient examination and treatment, diagnostic imaging, outpatient surgery and other outpatient services.  MOBs are similar to commercial office buildings, although they require greater plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate physicians’ requirements such as sinks in every room, brighter lights and specialized medical equipment.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, we owned or managed for third parties approximately23 millionsquare feet of MOBs that are predominantly located on or near a health system.



Life Science and Innovation Centers



Our life science and innovation centers contain laboratory and office space primarily for scientific research for universities, academic medical centers, technology, biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies and other organizations involved in the life science industry.  While these properties have characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives.  Our life science and innovation centers are primarily located on or contiguous to university and academic medical campuses. The campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants.



Inpatient Rehabilitation and Long-term Acute Care Facilities



We have29properties that are operated as LTACs.  LTACs have a Medicare average length of stay of greater than 25 days and serve medically complex, chronically ill patients who require a high level of monitoring and specialized care, but whose conditions do not necessitate the continued services of an intensive care unit.  The operators of these LTACs have the








capability to treat patients who suffer from multiple systemic failures or conditions such as neurological disorders, head injuries, brain stem and spinal cord trauma, cerebral vascular accidents, chemical brain injuries, central nervous system disorders, developmental anomalies and cardiopulmonary disorders.  Chronic patients often depend on technology for continued life support, such as mechanical ventilators, total parenteral nutrition, respiration or cardiac monitors and dialysis machines, and, due to their severe medical conditions, generally are not clinically appropriate for admission to a nursing facility or rehabilitation hospital.  All of our LTACs are freestanding facilities, and we do not own any “hospitals within hospitals.”  We also owneightIRFs devoted to the rehabilitation of patients with various neurological, musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions following stabilization of their acute medical issues.



Health Systems



We have12properties that are operated as health systems.  Health systems provide medical and surgical services, including inpatient care, intensive care, cardiac care, diagnostic services and emergency services. These health systems also provide outpatient services such as outpatient surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory therapy, cardiology and physical therapy.  In the United States, these health systems receive payments for patient services from the federal government primarily under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid or similar programs, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, other private insurers and directly from patients.



Skilled Nursing Facilities



We have17properties that are operated as SNFs.  SNFs provide rehabilitative, restorative, skilled nursing and medical treatment for patients and residents who do not require the high technology, care-intensive, high cost setting of an acute care or rehabilitation hospital.  Treatment programs include physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and other therapies, including sub-acute clinical protocols such as wound care and intravenous drug treatment.  Charges for these services are generally paid from a combination of government reimbursement and private sources.



Geographic Diversification of Properties



Our portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties is broadly diversified by geographic location throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, with properties in onlyonestate (California) accounting for more than 10% of our total continuing revenues and net operating income (“NOI,” which is defined as total revenues, excluding interest and other income, less property-level operating expenses and office building services costs) for the year endedDecember 31, 2017.










The following table shows our continuing rental income and resident fees and services by geographic location for the year endedDecember 31, 2017:Rental Income andResident Fees andServicesPercent of TotalRevenues(Dollars in thousands)Geographic LocationCalifornia$546,18415.3%New York308,3668.6Texas206,7095.8Illinois170,8464.8Florida158,8894.4Pennsylvania148,8824.2Connecticut114,0403.2Georgia114,0383.2North Carolina112,1373.1Arizona104,6842.9Other (36 states and the District of Columbia)1,239,58834.8Total U.S3,224,36390.3%Canada (7 provinces)186,0495.2United Kingdom26,4180.7Total(1)$3,436,83096.2%



(1)The remainder of our total revenues is office building and other services revenue, income from loans and investments and interest and other income.



The following table shows our continuing NOI by geographic location for the year endedDecember 31, 2017:NOI(1)Percent of TotalNOI(Dollars in thousands)Geographic LocationCalifornia$288,43513.9%Texas132,3056.4New York119,1235.7Illinois107,0345.1Florida93,7464.5Pennsylvania82,9004.0Connecticut73,1213.5North Carolina60,1882.9Washington42,8162.1Indiana43,9922.1Other (36 states and the District of Columbia)801,85438.5Total U.S1,845,51488.7%Canada (7 provinces)92,1124.4United Kingdom26,4181.3Total(2)$1,964,04494.4%



(1)See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—NOI” included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a reconciliation of NOI to its most directly comparable GAAP measure, income from continuing operations.

(2)The remainder of our total NOI is income from loans and investments.








See “NOTE 19—SEGMENT INFORMATION” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the geographic diversification of our portfolio.



Loans and Investments



As ofDecember 31, 2017, we had$1.4 billionof net loans receivable and investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties.  Our loans receivable and investments provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees and are typically secured by mortgage liens or leasehold mortgages on the underlying properties and corporate or personal guarantees by affiliates of the borrowing entity.  In some cases, the loans are secured by a pledge of ownership interests in the entity or entities that own the related seniors housing or healthcare properties. From time to time, we also make investments in mezzanine loans, which are subordinated to senior secured loans held by other investors that encumber the same real estate.  See “NOTE 6—LOANS RECEIVABLE AND INVESTMENTS” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Development and Redevelopment Projects



We are party to certain agreements that obligate us to develop seniors housing or healthcare properties funded through capital that we and, in certain circumstances, our joint venture partners provide.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, we had14properties under development pursuant to these agreements, includingfourproperties that are owned through unconsolidated real estate entities.  In addition, from time to time, we engage in redevelopment projects with respect to our existing seniors housing communities to maximize the value, increase NOI, maintain a market-competitive position, achieve property stabilization or change the primary use of the property.



Segment Information



We operate through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations and office operations.  Non-segment assets, classified as “all other,” consist primarily of corporate assets, including cash, restricted cash, loans receivable and investments, and miscellaneous accounts receivable.  Our chief operating decision makers evaluate performance of the combined properties in each reportable business segment and determine how to allocate resources to these segments, in significant part, based on segment NOI and related measures.  For further information regarding our business segments and a discussion of our definition of segment NOI, see “NOTE 19—SEGMENT INFORMATION” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Significant Tenants, Operators and Managers



The following table summarizes certain information regarding our tenant, operator and manager concentration as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2017(excluding properties classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2017):Number ofProperties Leasedor ManagedPercent of Total Real Estate Investments(1)Percent of Total RevenuesPercent of NOISenior living operations(2)29335.1%51.9%29.0%Brookdale Senior Living(3)1297.54.98.3Ardent104.93.15.4Kindred(4)321.14.37.5



(1)Based on gross book value.

(2)Excludesfourproperties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities.

(3)Excludessixproperties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities andoneproperty managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to a long-term management agreement and included in the senior living operations reportable business segment.

(4)IncludesoneMOB included in the office operations reportable business segment.



Triple-Net Leased Properties



Each of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred is a triple-net lease that obligates the tenant to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties.  In addition, each of our Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred leases has a corporate guaranty.  Brookdale Senior Living has multiple leases with us and those leases contain cross-default provisions tied to each other, as well as lease renewals by lease agreement or by pool of assets.








The properties we lease to Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred accounted for a significant portion of our triple-net leased properties segment revenues and NOI for the year ended

December 31, 2017

.  If any of Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent or Kindred becomes unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations to us or to renew its leases with us upon expiration of the terms thereof, our financial condition and results of operations could decline, and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders could be impaired.  We cannot assure you that Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their respective obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent or Kindred to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, our ability to service our indebtedness and other obligations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a “Material Adverse Effect”).  We also cannot assure you that Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred will elect to renew their respective leases with us upon expiration of the leases or that we will be able to reposition any non-renewed properties on a timely basis or on the same or better economic terms, if at all.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—

Our leases and other agreements with Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent and Kindred account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living, Ardent or Kindred to satisfy its obligations under our agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us

” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Brookdale Senior Living Leases



As ofDecember 31, 2017, we leased129consolidated properties (excludingoneproperty managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to a long-term management agreement and included in the senior living operations reportable business segment) to Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to multiple lease agreements.



Pursuant to our lease agreements, Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates annually at a specified rate over the prior period base rent.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, the aggregate2018contractual cash rent due to us from Brookdale Senior Living, excluding variable interest that Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay as additional rent based on certain floating rate mortgage debt, was approximately$180.3 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”)) due to us from Brookdale Senior Living, excluding the variable interest, was approximately$162.3 million(in each case, excludingsixproperties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities as ofDecember 31, 2017).  See “NOTE 3—CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK” and “NOTE 14—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Ardent Lease



As ofDecember 31, 2017,we leased10properties to Ardent pursuant to a single, triple-net master lease agreement. Per our master lease agreement, Ardent is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates annually by the lesser offourtimes the increase in the consumer price index for the relevant period and2.5%.  The initial term of the master lease expires on August 31, 2035 and Ardent hasoneten-year renewal option.



As ofDecember 31, 2017, the aggregate2018contractual cash rent due to us from Ardent was approximately$113.4 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) due to us from Ardent was also approximately$113.4 million.



Kindred Master Leases



As ofDecember 31, 2017, we leased29properties to Kindred pursuant to a master lease agreement.  In November 2016, Kindred extended the lease term to 2025 for all of our LTACs operated by Kindred that were scheduled to mature in 2018 and 2020, at the current rent level.



The aggregate annual rent we receive under each Kindred master lease is referred to as “base rent.”  Base rent escalates annually at a specified rate over the prior period base rent, contingent, in some cases, upon the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters.  The annual rent escalator under the Kindred master lease for25properties is based on year-over-year changes in CPI, subject to a floor and cap, and is 2.7% forfourproperties.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, the aggregate2018contractual cash rent due to us from Kindred was approximately$122.0 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) due to us from Kindred was approximately$122.7 million.










Senior Living Operations



As ofDecember 31, 2017, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to269consolidated seniors housing communities, for which we pay annual management fees pursuant to long-term management agreements.Most of our management agreements with Atria have initial terms expiring either July 31, 2024 or December 31, 2027, with successive automaticten-year renewal periods.  The management fees payable to Atria under most of the Atria management agreements range from4.5%to5%of revenues generated by the applicable properties, and Atria can earn up to an additional1%of revenues based on the achievement of specified performance targets.Most of our management agreements with Sunrise have terms ranging from 25 to 30 years (which commenced as early as 2004 and as recently as 2012).  The base management fees payable to Sunrise on consolidated assets under the Sunrise management agreements generally range from 5% to 7% of revenues generated by the applicable properties. See “NOTE 3—CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Because Atria and Sunrise manage our properties in exchange for the receipt of a management fee from us, we are not directly exposed to the credit risk of our managers in the same manner or to the same extent as our triple-net tenants.  However, we rely on our managers’ personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our senior living operations efficiently and effectively.  We also rely on our managers to set appropriate resident fees and otherwise operate our seniors housing communities in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations.  Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, including various rights to terminate and exercise remedies under those agreements as provided therein, Atria’s or Sunrise’s failure, inability or unwillingness to satisfy its respective obligations under those agreements, to efficiently and effectively manage our properties or to provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  In addition, significant changes in Atria’s or Sunrise’s senior management or equity ownership or any adverse developments in their businesses or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—

The properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; adverse developments in Atria’s or Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us

” and “—

We have rights to terminate our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise in whole or with respect to specific properties under certain circumstances, and we may be unable to replace Atria or Sunrise if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed

” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Our34%ownership interest in Atria entitles us to certain rights and minority protections, as well as the right to appointtwoofsixmembers on the Atria Board of Directors.



Competition



We generally compete for investments in seniors housing and healthcare assets with publicly traded, private and non-listed healthcare REITs, real estate partnerships, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do.  Increased competition challenges our ability to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives, which is affected by, among other factors, the availability of suitable acquisition or investment targets, our ability to negotiate acceptable transaction terms and our access to and cost of capital.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our ongoing strategy depends, in part, upon future investments in and acquisitions of, or our development or redevelopment of, seniors housing and healthcare assets, and we may not be successful in identifying and consummating these transactions” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and “NOTE 10—SENIOR NOTES PAYABLE AND OTHER DEBT” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Our tenants, operators and managers also compete on a local and regional basis with other healthcare operating companies that provide comparable services.  Seniors housing community, SNF and health systems operators compete to attract and retain residents and patients to our properties based on scope and quality of care, reputation and financial condition, price, location and physical appearance of the properties, services offered, qualified personnel, physician referrals and family preferences.  With respect to MOBs, we and our third-party managers compete to attract and retain tenants based on many of the same factors, in addition to quality of the affiliated health system, physician preferences and proximity to hospital campuses.  The ability of our tenants, operators and managers to compete successfully could be affected by private, federal and state reimbursement programs and other laws and regulations.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by healthcare regulation and enforcement” and “—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including insurance companies and the Medicare and








Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2017, we had493employees, none of which is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that relations with our employees are positive.



Insurance



We maintain or require in our lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations.  We believe that the amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and the policies required to be maintained by our tenants, operators and managers are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry.  Although we regularly monitor our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ compliance with their respective insurance requirements, we cannot assure you that they will maintain the required insurance coverages, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by our tenants, operators and managers to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  We also cannot assure you that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, that such insurance coverage will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the policies maintained will fully cover all losses related to our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event, nor can we assure you of the future financial viability of the insurers.



We maintain the property insurance for all of our senior living operations, as well as the general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations managed by Atria.  However, Sunrise maintains the general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations that it manages in accordance with the terms of our management agreements.  Under our management agreements with Sunrise, we may elect, on an annual basis, whether we or Sunrise will bear responsibility for maintaining the required insurance coverage for the applicable properties, but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains the insurance.



Through our office operations, we provide engineering, construction and architectural services in connection with new development projects, and any design, construction or systems failures related to the properties we develop could result in substantial injury or damage to our clients or third parties.  Any such injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed projects.  Although we maintain liability insurance to protect us against these claims, if any claim results in a loss, we cannot assure you that our policy limits would be adequate to cover the loss in full.  If we sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to pay the difference and we could lose our investment in, or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the affected MOB or life science and innovation center, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



For various reasons, including to reduce and manage costs, many healthcare companies utilize different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or captive programs that may provide less coverage than a traditional insurance policy.  As a result, companies that self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  The implementation of a trust or captive by any of our tenants, operators or managers could adversely affect such person’s ability to satisfy its obligations under, or otherwise comply with the terms of, its respective lease, management and other agreements with us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  Likewise, if we decide to implement a captive or self-insurance program, any large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses that we incur could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Additional Information



We maintain a website at www.ventasreit.com.  The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.



We make available, free of charge, through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  In addition, our Guidelines on Governance, our Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (including waivers from and amendments to that document) and the charters for each of our Audit and Compliance, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Executive Compensation Committees are available on our website, and we will mail copies of the foregoing documents to








stockholders, free of charge, upon request to our Corporate Secretary at Ventas, Inc., 353 North Clark Street, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois 60654.



GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION



Healthcare Regulation



Overview



Our tenants, operators and managers are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to quality of care, licensure and certificate of need, government reimbursement, fraud and abuse practices, qualifications of personnel, adequacy of plant and equipment, and other laws and regulations governing the operation of healthcare facilities. Healthcare is a highly regulated industry and that trend will, in general, continue in the future.  The applicable rules are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants, operators and managers to civil, criminal, and administrative sanctions, including:  the possible loss of accreditation or license; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs; or facility closure.  Changes in laws or regulations, reimbursement policies, enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by tenants, operators and managers can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



In 2017, Congress came within a single vote of repealing of the Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”) and substantially reducing funding to the Medicaid program.  Short of full repeal, new legislation is likely to be introduced to seek similar changes in 2018.  Beyond this, significant changes to commercial health insurance and government sponsored insurance (i.e. Medicare and Medicaid) remain possible.  Commercial and government payors, are likely to continue imposing greater discounts and more stringent cost controls upon operators, through changes in reimbursement rates and methodologies, discounted fee structures, the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk or otherwise. A shift toward less comprehensive health insurance coverage and increased consumer cost-sharing on health expenditures could have a material adverse effect on certain of our operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.



Licensure, Certification and CONs



In general, the operators of our inpatient rehabilitation and long-term acute care facilities, health systems and skilled nursing facilities (collectively “healthcare facilities”) must be licensed and periodically certified through various regulatory agencies that determine compliance with federal, state and local laws to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Legal requirements pertaining to such licensure and certification relate to the quality of medical care provided by the operator, qualifications of the operator’s administrative personnel and clinical staff, adequacy of the physical plant and equipment and continuing compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  A loss of licensure or certification could adversely affect a healthcare facility operator’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its obligations to us.



In addition, many of our healthcare facilities are subject to state certificate of need (“CON”) laws that require governmental approval prior to the development or expansion of healthcare facilities and services. The approval process in these states generally requires a facility to demonstrate the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. CONs, where applicable, are also sometimes necessary for changes in ownership or control of licensed facilities, addition of beds, investment in major capital equipment, introduction of new services or termination of services previously approved through the CON process. CON laws and regulations may restrict an operator’s ability to expand our properties and grow its business in certain circumstances, which could have an adverse effect on the operator’s revenues and, in turn, its ability to make rental payments under and otherwise comply with the terms of our leases. See “Risk Factors-Risks Arising from Our Business-If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



State CON laws remained largely unchanged in 2017, with the exception of North Carolina.  North Carolina’s CON statute, underwent minor changes in 2017 by exempting from CON review new institutional health services involving the acquisition of an unlicensed adult care home that was previously licensed.










Compared to healthcare facilities, seniors housing communities (other than those that receive Medicaid payments) do not receive significant funding from governmental healthcare programs and are subject to relatively few, if any, federal regulations. Instead, to the extent they are regulated, such regulation consists primarily of state and local laws governing licensure, provision of services, staffing requirements and other operational matters, which vary greatly from one jurisdiction to another. Although recent growth in the U.S. seniors housing industry has attracted the attention of various federal agencies that believe more federal regulation of these properties is necessary, Congress thus far has deferred to state regulation of seniors housing communities. However, as a result of this growth and increased federal scrutiny, some states have revised and strengthened their regulation of seniors housing communities, and more states are expected to do the same in the future.



As discussed in greater detail below, a number of states have instituted Medicaid waiver programs that blend the functions of healthcare and custodial care providers, and expand the scope of services that can be provided under certain licenses. The trend toward this kind of experimentation is likely to continue, and even hasten, under Republican leadership.  The temporary and experimental nature of these programs means that states will also continue to adjust their licensing and certification processes which might result in some providers facing increased competition and others facing new requirements.



Fraud and Abuse Enforcement



Healthcare facilities and seniors housing communities that receive Medicaid payments are subject to various complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibit fraudulent and abusive business practices.  These laws and regulations include, among others:



•Federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit healthcare providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs;



•Federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment, receipt or solicitation of any remuneration to induce referrals of patients for items or services covered by a governmental healthcare program, including Medicare and Medicaid;



•Federal and state physician self-referral laws, including the federal Stark Law, which generally prohibits physicians from referring patients enrolled in certain governmental healthcare programs to providers of certain designated health services in which the referring physician or an immediate family member of the referring physician  has an ownership or other financial interest;



•The federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent acts; and



•State and federal data privacy and security laws, including the privacy and security rules of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which provide for the privacy and security of certain individually identifiable health information.



Violating these healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations may result in criminal and civil penalties, such as punitive sanctions, damage assessments, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments, and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The responsibility for enforcing these laws and regulations lies with a variety or federal, state and local governmental agencies, however many of the laws and regulations can also be enforced by private litigants through federal and state false claims acts and other laws that allow private individuals to bring whistleblower suits known asqui tamactions.



Congress has significantly increased funding to the governmental agencies charged with enforcing the healthcare fraud and abuse laws to facilitate increased audits, investigations and prosecutions of providers suspected of healthcare fraud.  As a result, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against healthcare providers have increased significantly in recent years and are expected to continue.  A violation of federal or state anti-fraud and abuse laws or regulations by an operator of our properties could have a material adverse effect on the operator’s liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.



The current presidential administration has signaled it will expand current efforts to enforce healthcare fraud and abuse laws by increasing funding for the Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control program.  Additionally, Attorney General Jeff Sessions has stated that he will make it a high priority to prosecute fraud in federal claims while the administrator of the Centers for








Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), Seema Verma, has underscored this administration’s focus on healthcare fraud, stating that she will ensure that efforts preventing fraud and abuse are a priority.  Further, many state Medicaid programs continue to devote additional resources to fraud, waste, and abuse initiatives. Medicaid reform plans might include lowering the growth rate of Medicaid spending, which will put pressure on states to exert greater scrutiny over the utilization of services.  It is likely that states will have increased flexibility and incentive to monitor utilization patterns and take action against outlier providers.



Medicare’s fraud, waste, and abuse initiatives are also being retooled by the current presidential administration. Because a backlog of provider appeals in response to Medicare audits, CMS finalized significant changes intended to expedite the Medicare appeals process in 2017, particularly at the administrative law judge level of review.  These changes apply to appeals of payment and coverage determinations for items and services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries, enrollees in Medicare Advantage and other Medicare competitive health plans, and enrollees in Medicare prescription drug plans, as well as to appeals of enrollment and entitlement determinations, and certain premium appeals.  The Recovery Audit Contractor program, which has recovered more than $2 billion for the Medicare program, also continues to be controversial and may be modified under the new administration.



Reimbursement



The majority of SNF reimbursement, and a significant percentage of health system, IRF and LTAC reimbursement, is through Medicare and Medicaid.  Medical buildings and other healthcare related properties have provider tenants that participate in Medicare and Medicaid.  These programs are often their largest source of funding.  Seniors housing communities generally do not receive funding from Medicare or Medicaid, but their ability to retain their residents is impacted by policy decisions and initiatives established by the administrators of Medicare and Medicaid.  The passage of the ACA in 2010 allowed formerly uninsured Americans to acquire coverage and utilize additional health care services.  In addition, the ACA gave new authorities to implement Medicaid waiver and pilot programs that impact healthcare and long term custodial care reimbursement by Medicare and Medicaid.  These activities promote “aging in place”, allowing senior citizens to stay longer in seniors housing communities, and diverting or delaying their admission into SNFs.  The potential risks that accompany these regulatory and market changes are discussed below.



•As a result of the ACA, and specifically Medicaid expansion and establishment of health insurance exchanges providing subsidized health insurance, an estimated seventeen million more Americans have health insurance than in 2010.  These newly-insured Americans utilize services delivered by providers at medical buildings and other healthcare facilities.  The current presidential administration and Republican-controlled Congress nearly repealed the ACA in 2017 and remain committed to repealing the ACA and replacing it with a less federalized model for providing health insurance to individuals and families unable to purchase health insurance on their own.  The details of the replacement model are not yet known, but potential end results could be fewer insured individuals and families or individuals and families maintaining less comprehensive insurance coverage.  Outside of ACA repeal, Republicans leaders, particularly in the House of Representatives, are committed to pursuing entitlement reforms in 2018 that could lower funding to major federal programs, particularly Medicaid and lessen the number of people covered by these programs.  Even without legislation, the current presidential administration has issued regulations that may lessen the number of people who purchase ACA-compliant health insurance, which has the potential to provide less protection to people coping with expensive health conditions.  Any of these outcomes could adversely impact the resources of our operators.



•Enabled by the Medicare Modernization Act (2003) and subsequent laws, Medicare and Medicaid have implemented pilot programs (officially termed demonstrations or models) to “divert” elderly from SNFs and promote “aging in place” in “the least restrictive environment.”  Several states have implemented home and community-based Medicaid waiver programs that increase the support services available to senior citizens in senior housing, lengthening the time that many seniors can live outside of a SNF.  These Medicaid waiver programs are subject to re-approval and pilots are time-limited.  The current presidential administration is not necessarily opposed to these efforts, but is committed to giving states greater control of their Medicaid programs.  The result could be the modification or curtailment of a number of existing pilots.



•CMS is currently in the midst of transitioning Medicare from a traditional fee-for-service reimbursement model to capitated and value-based approaches in which the government pays a set amount for each beneficiary for a defined period of time, based on that person’s underlying medical needs, rather than the actual services provided.  The result is increasing use of management tools to oversee individual providers and coordinate their services.  This puts downward pressure on the number and expense of services provided.  Roughly 10 million Medicare beneficiaries now receive care via accountable care organizations, and another 19 million are enrolled in Medicare








Advantage health plans.  The continued trend toward capitated and value-based approaches - particularly Medicare Advantage, which is expected to grow under the current presidential administration - has the potential to diminish the market for certain healthcare providers, particularly specialist physicians and providers of particular diagnostic technologies such as medical resonance imaging services.  This could adversely impact the medical properties that house these physicians and medical technology providers.



•The majority of Medicare payments continue to be made through traditional Medicare Part A and Part B fee-for-service schedules.  Medicare’s payment regulations, particularly with respect to certain hospitals, skilled nursing care, and home health services have resulted in lower net pay increases than providers of those services often desire.  In addition, the Medicare and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA) of 2015 establishes a multi-year transition into pay-for-quality approaches for Medicare physicians and other providers.  This will include payment reductions for providers who do not meet government quality standards.  The implementation of pay-for-quality models is expected to produce funding disparities that could adversely impact some provider tenants in MOBs and other health care properties.  The current presidential administration has made public comments about protecting Medicare generally and improving Medicare and MACRA for healthcare providers, but few specifics are known at this time.  A negative payment update in 2017 for home health reimbursement demonstrates that the current presidential administration, regardless of public statements, may take actions adverse to certain provider types.



For the year endedDecember 31, 2017, approximately8.4%of our total revenues and14.5%of our total NOI (in each case excluding amounts in discontinued operations) were attributable to healthcare facilities in which our third-party tenants receive reimbursement for their services under governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.  We are neither a participant in, nor a direct recipient of, any reimbursement under these programs with respect to those leased facilities.



Life Science and Innovation Centers



In 2016, we entered the life science and innovation (“life science”) sector through the acquisitions of substantially all of the university affiliated life science real estate assets of Wexford Science & Technology, LLC from affiliates of Blackstone Real Estate Partners VIII, L.P.  The life science tenants of these assets are largely university-affiliated organizations.  These university-affiliated life science tenants are dependent on government funding to varying degrees.  Creating a new pharmaceutical product or medical device requires substantial investments of time and capital, in part because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance.  Therefore, our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty.



Some of our life sciences tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their products and technologies.  If private investors, the federal government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant’s life sciences operation may be adversely affected or fail.  Further, the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants’ products requires federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain.  Even after a life sciences tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance for a product, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products and the expiration of patent protection for the product.  Our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and government reimbursement policies, including changes under the current presidential administration or by private healthcare payors.  Likewise, our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws.  If our life sciences tenants’ businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Environmental Regulation



As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health and safety matters.



These laws and regulations address, among other things, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, fuel oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions, radioactive materials, medical wastes, and hazardous wastes, and, in certain cases, the costs of complying with these laws and regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be substantial. With respect to our properties that are operated or managed by third parties, we may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property from which there is or has been an actual or threatened release of a regulated material and any other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release. Such costs typically are not limited by law or regulation and could exceed the property’s value. In addition, we may be liable for certain








other costs, such as governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources, as a result of any such actual or threatened release. See “Risk Factors-Risks Arising from Our Business-We could incur substantial liabilities and costs if any of our properties are found to be contaminated with hazardous substances or we become involved in any environmental disputes” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Under the terms of our lease, management and other agreements, we generally have a right to indemnification by the tenants, operators and managers of our properties for any contamination caused by them. However, we cannot assure you that our tenants, operators and managers will have the financial capability or willingness to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness to do so may require us to satisfy the underlying environmental claims.



In general, we have also agreed to indemnify our tenants and operators against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or relating to, the leased properties at any time before the applicable lease commencement date. With respect to our senior living operating portfolio, we have agreed to indemnify our managers against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean- up costs) resulting from any condition on those properties, unless the manager caused or contributed to that condition.



We did not make any material capital expenditures in connection with environmental, health, and safety laws, ordinances and regulations in2017and do not expect that we will be required to make any such material capital expenditures during2018.



Canada



In Canada, seniors housing communities are currently generally subject to significantly less regulation than skilled nursing facilities and hospitals, and the regulation of such facilities is principally a matter of provincial and municipal jurisdiction. As a result, the regulatory regimes that apply to seniors housing communities vary depending on the province (and in certain circumstances, the city) in which a facility is located. Recently, certain Canadian provinces have taken steps to implement regulatory measures that could result in enhanced regulation for seniors housing communities in such provinces.





