ITEM 1.Business

BUSINESS

Overview

Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a REIT with a highly diversified portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties located throughout the United States and Canada.  As ofDecember 31, 2012, we owned more than 1,400 properties, including seniors housing communities, skilled nursing and other facilities, MOBs, and hospitals, in46states, the District of Columbia andtwoCanadian provinces, and we hadthreenew properties under development.  Our company was incorporated under the laws of Kentucky in 1983, commenced operations in 1985, reorganized as a Delaware corporation in 1987 and is currently headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.

We primarily acquire and own seniors housing and healthcare properties and lease our properties to unaffiliated tenants or operate them through independent third-party managers.  As ofDecember 31, 2012, we leased898properties (excluding MOBs and properties classified as held for sale) to various healthcare operating companies under “triple-net” or “absolute-net” leases that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and we engaged independent operators, such as Atria and Sunrise, to manage223of our seniors housing communities pursuant to long-term management agreements.

In addition, through our Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. (“Lillibridge”) subsidiary and our ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC (“PMBRES”), we provide MOB management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States.  From time to time, we also make secured and unsecured loans and other investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties.

We conduct our operations through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties; senior living operations; and MOB operations.  See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, including “Note 2—Accounting Policies,” included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Strategy

Our principal objective is to enhance shareholder value by delivering superior, reliable returns.  To achieve this objective, we pursue a business strategy of: (1) generating consistent, reliable and growing cash flows; (2) maintaining a balanced, well-diversified portfolio of high-quality assets; and (3) preserving our financial strength, flexibility and liquidity.

Generating Consistent, Reliable and Growing Cash Flows

Consistent, reliable and growing cash flows from our seniors housing and healthcare assets enable us to pay regular cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase shareholder value through profitable investments.  Our ability to generate consistent, reliable and growing cash flows is driven by the combination of steady contractual growth from long-term triple-net leases with our tenants, greater growth potential from our seniors housing operating assets that are subject to management agreements and stable cash flows from our MOBs.

Maintaining a Balanced, Well-Diversified Portfolio

We believe that maintaining a balanced portfolio of high-quality assets diversified across many key attributes – geographic location, asset type, tenant/manager mix, revenue source and operating model – diminishes the risk that any single factor or event could materially harm our business.  Portfolio diversification also reduces our exposure to any individual tenant or manager and makes us less susceptible to single-state regulatory or reimbursement changes, regional climate events and local economic downturns.

Preserving Our Financial Strength, Flexibility and Liquidity

A strong, flexible balance sheet and excellent liquidity position us favorably to capitalize on strategic growth opportunities in the seniors housing and healthcare industries through acquisitions, investments and development projects. We strive to maintain our financial strength and invest profitably by actively managing our leverage, continuing to lower our cost of capital and preserving our access to multiple sources of liquidity, including unsecured bank debt, mortgage financings and the public debt and equity markets.










2012 Highlights

During the year endedDecember 31, 2012:

•We completed $2.7 billion of gross investments, including the acquisitions of:

•Cogdell Spencer Inc. (“Cogdell”), with its 71 real estate assets (including properties owned through joint ventures) and its MOB property management business, for an investment of approximately $760 million, including debt;

•16 seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise (the “Sunrise-Managed 16 Communities”) for approximately $362 million;

•100% of various private investment funds (the “Funds”) previously managed by Lazard Frères Real Estate Investors LLC or its affiliates (“LFREI”), which Funds own a 34% interest in Atria and 3.7 million shares of our common stock; and

•Controlling interests in 36 MOBs that that we previously accounted for as investments in unconsolidated entities;

•We sold 43 properties and received final repayment on loans receivable and marketable debt securities for aggregate proceeds of approximately $422 million, including certain fees, and recognized a net gain of $81.0 million from the dispositions;

•We paid an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $2.48 per share, which represents an 8% increase over the prior year and was paid to stockholders in equal quarterly installments of $0.62 per share;

•We issued and sold $2.4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes and entered into a new $180.0 million term loan, collectively having a weighted average stated interest rate of 3.2% and a weighted average maturity at the time of issuance of 7.7 years;

•We completed a public offering and sale of 5,980,000 shares of our common stock for aggregate proceeds of $342.5 million;

•Of the 89 properties leased to Kindred whose current lease term expires on April 30, 2013, Kindred renewed or entered into a new lease with respect to a total of 35 properties, and we entered into new leases or sale contracts for the remaining 54 properties, the majority of which remain subject to operating transitions and regulatory approvals; and

•We redeemed or repaid $780.4 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding unsecured debt, including our 9% senior notes due 2012, 8.25% senior notes due 2012, 6¾% senior notes due 2017, 6½% senior notes due 2016, and unsecured term loan due 2013, and $344.2 million of mortgage debt.












Portfolio Summary

The following table summarizes our portfolio of properties and other investments, excluding investments in unconsolidated entities and properties classified as held for sale, as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2012:

Real Estate Property InvestmentsRevenuesAsset Type# ofProperties(1)# ofUnits/Beds/Sq. Ft.(2)Real Estate Property Investment, at CostPercent ofTotal Real Estate Property InvestmentsReal EstatePropertyInvestment Per Unit/Bed/Sq. Ft.Revenue(3)Percent of Total RevenuesNumberofStates/Provinces(4)(Dollars in thousands)PropertiesSeniors housing communities65956,445$12,531,82061.2%$222.0$1,601,50164.5%45Skilled nursing and other facilities38143,7113,033,67914.869.4346,48013.941Hospitals473,878473,7372.3122.2112,7204.517MOBs (5)30016,107,0083,801,78018.60.2383,57915.429Total properties1,38719,841,01696.9%2,444,28098.3%49Other Investments and IncomeLoans and investments635,0023.139,9131.6Other1,1060.1Total$20,476,018100.0%$2,485,299100.0%



nm—not meaningful.

(1)Excludes20seniors housing communities,14skilled nursing facilities and21MOBs included in investments in unconsolidated entities.  Also, excludessixseniors housing communities,nineskilled nursing facilities andfourMOBs classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2012.

(2)Seniors housing communities are measured in units; skilled nursing facilities, hospitals and personal care facilities are measured by bed count; and MOBs are measured by square footage.

(3)Revenues relate to the actual period of ownership and do not necessarily reflect a full year.

(4)As ofDecember 31, 2012, our consolidated properties were located in46states, the District of Columbia andtwoCanadian provinces and, excluding MOBs, were operated or managed by 95 different third-party healthcare operating companies, including the following publicly traded companies: Kindred (196properties); Brookdale (148properties); Emeritus Corporation (17properties) and Capital Senior Living, Inc. (12properties).

(5)As ofDecember 31, 2012, 30 of our consolidated MOBs were leased pursuant to triple-net leases, Lillibridge or PMBRES managed 193 of our consolidated MOBs and 77 of our consolidated MOBs were managed by 14 different third-party managers.  Through Lillibridge and PMBRES, we provided management and leasing services to third parties with respect to82MOBs as ofDecember 31, 2012.

Seniors Housing and Healthcare Properties

As ofDecember 31, 2012, we owned1,442seniors housing and healthcare properties, including investments in unconsolidated entities, but excluding properties classified as held for sale, as follows:

Consolidated(100% interest)Consolidated(<100% interest)Unconsolidated(5-25% interest)TotalSeniors housing communities6481120679Skilled nursing and other facilities372914395Hospitals461—47MOBs2722821321Total1,33849551,442










Seniors Housing Communities

Our seniors housing communities include independent and assisted living communities, continuing care retirement communities and communities providing care for individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia or memory loss. These communities offer studio, one bedroom and two bedroom residential units on a month-to-month basis primarily to elderly individuals requiring various levels of assistance. Basic services for residents of these communities include housekeeping, meals in a central dining area and group activities organized by the staff with input from the residents. More extensive care and personal supervision, at additional fees, are also available for such needs as eating, bathing, grooming, transportation, limited therapeutic programs and medication administration, which allow residents certain conveniences and enable them to live as independently as possible according to their abilities. These services are often met by home health providers, close coordination with the resident’s physician and skilled nursing facilities. Charges for room, board and services are generally paid from private sources.

Skilled Nursing and Other Facilities

Our skilled nursing facilities provide rehabilitative, restorative, skilled nursing and medical treatment for patients and residents who do not require the high technology, care-intensive, high cost setting of an acute care or rehabilitation hospital. Treatment programs include physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and other therapies, including sub-acute clinical protocols such as wound care and intravenous drug treatment. Charges for these services are generally paid from a combination of government reimbursement and private sources.

Our personal care facilities provide specialized care, including supported living services, neurorehabilitation, neurobehavioral management and vocational programs, for persons with acquired or traumatic brain injury.

Hospitals

Substantially all of our hospitals are operated as long-term acute care hospitals, which have a Medicare average length of stay greater than 25 days and serve medically complex, chronically ill patients who require a high level of monitoring and specialized care, but whose conditions do not necessitate the continued services of an intensive care unit. The operators of these hospitals have the capability to treat patients who suffer from multiple systemic failures or conditions such as neurological disorders, head injuries, brain stem and spinal cord trauma, cerebral vascular accidents, chemical brain injuries, central nervous system disorders, developmental anomalies and cardiopulmonary disorders. Chronic patients often depend on technology for continued life support, such as mechanical ventilators, total parenteral nutrition, respiration or cardiac monitors and dialysis machines, and, due to their severe medical conditions, generally are not clinically appropriate for admission to a nursing facility or rehabilitation hospital. All of our long-term acute care hospitals are freestanding facilities, and we do not own any “hospitals within hospitals.” We also own two hospitals focused on providing children’s care and five rehabilitation hospitals devoted to the rehabilitation of patients with various neurological, musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions following stabilization of their acute medical issues.

Medical Office Buildings

Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to several different unrelated medical practices, although they can be associated with a large single specialty or multi-specialty group. Tenants include physicians, dentists, psychologists, therapists and other healthcare providers, with space devoted to patient examination and treatment, diagnostic imaging, outpatient surgery and other outpatient services. While MOBs are similar to commercial office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate physicians’ requirements such as sinks in every room, brighter lights and specialized medical equipment. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we owned or managed for third parties more than 21 million square feet of MOBs, a significant majority of which are “on campus,” defined as being located on or near an acute care hospital campus.

Geographic Diversification of Properties

Our portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties is broadly diversified by geographic location throughout the United States and Canada, with properties in one state (California) accounting for more than 10% of our total revenues for the year endedDecember 31, 2012.










The following table shows our rental income and resident fees and services derived by geographic location for the year endedDecember 31, 2012:

Rental Income andResident Fees andServices (1)Percent of TotalRevenues(Dollars in thousands)Geographic LocationCalifornia$348,41814.0%New York246,0829.9Texas149,8016.0Illinois123,7895.0Massachusetts115,2734.6Florida102,2494.1Pennsylvania95,9873.9New Jersey78,9233.2Connecticut74,7233.0Arizona73,8883.0Other (36 states and the District of Columbia)918,46236.9Total U.S2,327,59593.6%Canada (two Canadian provinces)95,9443.9Total$2,423,53997.5%(2)



(1)Revenues relate to the actual period of ownership and do not necessarily reflect a full year.

(2)The remainder of our total revenues is medical office building and other services revenue, income from loans and investments and interest and other income.  This presentation excludes revenues from properties sold during2012or classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2012.

See “Note 20—Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the geographic diversification of our portfolio.

Certificates of Need

Our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are generally subject to federal, state and local licensure statutes and statutes that may require regulatory approval, in the form of a certificate of need (“CON”) issued by a governmental agency with jurisdiction over healthcare facilities, prior to the expansion of existing facilities, construction of new facilities, addition of beds, acquisition of major equipment or introduction of new services. CON requirements, which are not uniform throughout the United States, may restrict our or our operators’ ability to expand our properties in certain circumstances.

The following table shows the percentage of our rental income for the year endedDecember 31, 2012derived by skilled nursing facilities and hospitals in states with and without CON requirements:

SkilledNursingFacilitiesHospitalsTotalStates with CON requirements68.3%41.8%61.8%States without CON requirements31.758.238.2Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

Secured and Unsecured Loans and Other Investments

Loans Receivable

Our real estate loans provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees and are typically secured by mortgage liens, leasehold mortgages and corporate or personal guarantees.  In some cases, the loans are secured by a pledge of ownership interests in the entity or entities that own the related real estate.  As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had$697.1 million










of net loans receivable relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties. See “Note 6—Loans Receivable” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Development and Redevelopment Projects

We are party to certain agreements that obligate us to develop healthcare properties, the construction of which is funded through capital that we and, in certain circumstances, our joint venture partners provide.  As ofDecember 31, 2012, we hadthreenew properties under development pursuant to these agreements.  In addition, from time to time, we engage in redevelopment projects with respect to our seniors housing operating communities to maximize the value, increase net operating income (“NOI”), maintain a market-competitive position, achieve property stabilization or change the primary use of the property.

Segment Information

We evaluate our business and make resource allocations among three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties; senior living operations; and MOB operations.  For further information regarding our business segments, see “Note 20—Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Significant Tenants, Operators and Managers

The following table provides information regarding our tenant/manager concentration as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2012:Number ofPropertiesLeased orManagedPercent of Total Real Estate Investments (1)Percent of Total Revenues (2)Percent ofNOI (2)Senior living operations22332.6%49.6%25.7%Kindred1964.410.517.4Brookdale Senior Living (3)14810.46.410.5

(1)Based on gross book value (excluding amounts held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2012).

(2)Amounts relate to the actual period of ownership and do not necessarily reflect a full year.  Excludes amounts in discontinued operations.  NOI is defined as total revenues, less interest and other income, property-level operating expenses and medical office building services costs.

(3)Excludes six properties included in investments in unconsolidated entities.

Triple-Net Leased Properties

Each of our master lease agreements with Kindred (the “Kindred Master Leases”) and our leases with Brookdale Senior Living is a triple-net lease that obligates the tenant to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties. In addition, each of these leases have guaranty and cross-default provisions tied to other leases with the same tenant, as well as bundled lease renewals (as described in more detail below).










Kindred Master Leases

As of December 31, 2012, we leased 196 properties to Kindred pursuant to four original Kindred Master Leases, with the properties grouped into bundles or renewal groups (each, a “renewal group”) containing a varying number of properties. Each renewal group is diversified by geography and contains at least one long-term acute care hospital. Under the four original Kindred Master Leases, the properties within a single renewal group have the same primary lease term of ten to 15 years (which commenced May 1, 1998), and each renewal group is subject to three successive five-year renewal terms at Kindred’s option, provided certain conditions are satisfied.  Kindred’s renewal option is “all or nothing” with respect to the properties contained in each renewal group.

The lease terms for ten renewal groups under the four original Kindred Master Leases covering a total of 89 properties have an April 30, 2013 expiration date.  We have entered into lease renewals, new leases or sale contracts for all 89 properties whose lease term expires on April 30, 2013.  We expect 2013 cash revenue and NOI from these 89 properties (including the yield on reinvested sale proceeds from the five properties for sale) to be $125 million, compared to 2012 rent for all 89 properties of $125 million.

Of these 89 properties, Kindred will remain the tenant in 35 properties for estimated aggregate annual base rent commencing on May 1, 2013 of $76.1 million, including escalations.  Specifically, Kindred irrevocably renewed for a five-year term three renewal groups covering a total of 25 properties, and we entered into a fifth Kindred Master Lease with respect to ten long-term acute care hospitals. The new Kindred Master Lease has an initial term expiring on April 30, 2023 and is subject to three successive five-year, “all or nothing” renewal options at Kindred’s option.

With respect to the remaining 54 skilled nursing facilities whose lease term expires on April 30, 2013 (the “Marketed Assets”), 49 Marketed Assets have been leased pursuant to new long-term triple-net leases (the “New Leases”) with seven qualified healthcare operators (the “New Tenants”), and we have entered into definitive agreements to sell five Marketed Assets.  The New Leases have an average weighted initial lease term of over 11 years.

Six of the Marketed Assets transitioned to New Tenants on February 1, 2013.  Kindred is required to continue to perform all of its obligations under the applicable Kindred Master Lease for the Marketed Assets until expiration of the current lease term, including without limitation, payment of all rental amounts. Moreover, we own or have the rights to all licenses and CONs at the properties, and Kindred has extensive and detailed obligations to cooperate and ensure an orderly transition of the properties to another operator.

Although leases and sale contracts have been executed and we expect the remaining transitions and sales to be completed or occur in the first half of 2013, these transitions and sales remain subject to customary closing conditions, including licensure and regulatory approval.  Accordingly, we cannot assure you as to whether or when the transitions or sales of the remaining Marketed Assets will be completed, if at all, or upon what terms.  Our ability to transition or sell the Marketed Assets could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing or change-of-ownership proceedings.  In addition, if any transition or sale has not occurred by May 1, 2013, Kindred has certain obligations to continue operating the properties on modified terms for a limited period, but we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance expenses or general operating expenses) related to the applicable properties after May 1, 2013.

The current lease term for ten renewal groups covering another 108 properties leased to Kindred pursuant to the four original Kindred Master Leases will expire on April 30, 2015 (the “2015 Assets”), subject to two successive five-year renewal options for those properties exercisable by Kindred.  Kindred has from November 1, 2013 until April 30, 2014 to provide us with renewal notices with respect to those properties. Therefore, as to any renewal group for which we do not receive a renewal notice, we will have at least one year to arrange for the repositioning of the applicable properties with new operators.  Regardless of whether Kindred renews any of the renewal groups, Kindred is obligated to continue to perform all of its obligations under the applicable Kindred Master Lease with respect to the 2015 Assets, including the payment of full rent, through April 30, 2015.

All ten renewal groups whose current lease term expires on April 30, 2015 will be, upon renewal, in the second five-year renewal period and, therefore, we have a unilateral bundle-by-bundle option to initiate a fair market rental reset process on any renewal group for which Kindred delivers a renewal notice.  If we elect to initiate the fair market rental reset process for any renewal group, the renewal rent will be the higher of contract rent and fair market rent determined by an appraisal process set forth in the applicable Kindred Master Lease. In certain cases following our initiation of a fair market rental reset process with respect to a renewal group, Kindred may have the right to revoke its renewal of that particular renewal group.

We cannot assure you that Kindred will elect to renew any or all of the renewal groups for the 2015 Assets or that we will be able to reposition any or all non-renewed assets on a timely basis or on the same or better economic terms, if at all. In










addition, the determination of market rent, whether on re-leasing or under the reset process, is dependent on and may be influenced by a variety of factors and is highly speculative, and we cannot assure you as to what the market rent may be for any of the 2015 Assets.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The aggregate annual rent we receive under each Kindred Master Lease is referred to as “base rent.” Base rent escalates on May 1 of each year at a specified rate over the prior period base rent, with base rent escalation under the four original Kindred Master Leases contingent upon the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters. The annual rent escalator under three Kindred Master Leases is 2.7%, and the annual rent escalator under the other two Kindred Master Leases is based on year-over-year changes in CPI, subject to floors and caps.

Assuming that all of the Marketed Assets are sold or transitioned on or prior to May 1, 2013 and assuming the applicable facility revenue parameters are met, and regardless of whether Kindred provides renewal notices with respect to any or all of the 2015 Assets, we currently expect that approximately $216 million of aggregate base rent will be due under the five Kindred Master Leases for the period from May 1, 2013 through April 30, 2014. See “Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Brookdale Senior Living Leases

Our leases with Brookdale Senior Living have an average term of 15 years (commencing as early as 1995) and are subject to two or more successive five- or ten-year renewal terms at Brookdale Senior Living’s option, provided certain conditions are satisfied.

Under the terms of our leases, Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates annually by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the percentage increase in CPI during the immediately preceding year or (ii) either 2.5% or 3%, depending on the lease, or, in the case of our remaining “Grand Court” property, the greater of (i) 2% or (ii) 75% of the increase in CPI during the immediately preceding year.  For2013, the current aggregate contractual cash base rent due to us from Brookdale Senior Living, excluding variable interest that Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay as additional rent based on certain floating rate mortgage debt, is approximately$154.3 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”)) due to us from Brookdale Senior Living, excluding the variable interest, is approximately$153.9 million(in each case, excluding properties included in investments in unconsolidated entities and properties held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2012).  See “Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” and “Note 14—Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

During 2012, we sold 18 properties to Brookdale Senior Living for aggregate consideration of $167.6 million, including lease termination fees.

Senior Living Operations

As ofDecember 31, 2012, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to220of our seniors housing communities, for which we pay annual management fees pursuant to long-term management agreements. Substantially all of our management agreements with Atria have initial terms expiring December 31, 2027, with successive automatic ten-year renewal periods.  The management fees we pay to Atria under the Atria management agreements are equal to 5% of revenues generated by the applicable properties, plus, in most cases, an incentive management fee of up to an additional 1% of revenues based on the achievement of specified performance targets.  Our management agreements with Sunrise have terms ranging from 25 to 30 years, commencing as early as 2004 and as recently as 2012.  The management fees we pay to Sunrise under the Sunrise management agreements range from 5% to 7% of revenues generated by the applicable properties.  For the year endedDecember 31, 2012, the management fees (including incentive fees) we paid pursuant to our Sunrise management agreements were equal to6.4%of revenues generated by the applicable properties. See “Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Because Atria and Sunrise manage, but do not lease, our properties, we are not directly exposed to their credit risk in the same manner or to the same extent as our triple-net tenants. However, we rely on our managers’ personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We also rely on our managers to set resident fees and otherwise operate those properties in compliance with the terms of our management agreements. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, including various rights to terminate and exercise remedies under the agreements that may relate to all properties or a specific property or group of properties as provided therein, Atria’s or Sunrise’s inability or unwillingness to satisfy its obligations under those agreements, to efficiently and effectively manage our properties or to










provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, significant changes in Atria’s or Sunrise’s senior management or any adverse developments in their businesses and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—The properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Although Atria and Sunrise are managers, not tenants, of our properties, adverse developments in their businesses and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” and “—We have rights to terminate our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise in whole or with respect to specific properties under certain circumstances, and we may be unable to replace Atria or Sunrise if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In December 2012, we acquired 100% of the Funds previously managed by LFREI. The acquired Funds own (a) a 34% interest in Atria and (b) 3.7 million shares of Ventas common stock. In conjunction with this acquisition, we also extinguished our obligation related to the “earnout,” a contingent performance-based payment arising out of our 2011 acquisition of the real estate assets of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. (together with its affiliates, “ASLG”), which was previously reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as a liability, for an additional$44 million.  This amount represented the discounted net present value of the potential future payment of approximately$63 million. Additionally, in connection with this transaction, we obtained certain rights and minority protections regarding material transactions affecting Atria, as well as the right to appoint two directors to the Atria Board of Directors.

In August 2012, Sunrise announced that it had agreed to be acquired by Health Care REIT, Inc. (“Health Care REIT”).  In connection with this announcement, Sunrise effected an internal reorganization to separate its subsidiaries that operate and manage seniors housing communities (collectively, the “Sunrise management business”) from its real estate assets and its equity interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures that hold real estate assets (collectively, the “Sunrise real estate”).  In January 2013, the Sunrise management business was sold to a partnership comprised of three private equity firms and Health Care REIT, and the Sunrise real estate was acquired by Health Care REIT.

Competition

We generally compete for the acquisition, leasing and financing of seniors housing and healthcare properties with publicly traded, private and non-listed healthcare REITs, real estate partnerships, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders and other investors, including without limitation developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government sponsored entities and private equity firms. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives, and our ability to compete is affected by, among other factors, the availability of suitable acquisition or investment targets, our ability to negotiate acceptable acquisition or investment terms and our access to and cost of capital. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our pursuit of investments in, and acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and healthcare assets may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and “Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The tenants and managers that operate our properties compete on a local and regional basis with healthcare operating companies that provide comparable services. The operators and managers of our seniors housing communities, skilled nursing facilities and hospitals compete to attract and retain residents and patients based on scope and quality of care, reputation and financial condition, price, location and physical appearance of the properties, services offered, qualified personnel, physician referrals and family preferences. The managers of our MOBs compete to attract and retain tenants based on many of the same factors, in addition to quality of the affiliated health system, physician preferences and proximity to hospital campuses. The ability of our tenants and managers to compete successfully could be affected by private, federal and state reimbursement programs and other laws and regulations. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by healthcare regulation and enforcement” and “—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had 439 employees, none of whom is subject to a collective bargaining agreement and 304 of whom are employed in our MOB operations reportable business segment.

Insurance

We maintain or require in our lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations. We believe that the amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and the policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers are customary for










similarly situated companies in our industry. Although we believe that our tenants, operators and managers are in compliance with their respective insurance requirements, we cannot assure you that they will maintain the required insurance coverages, and the failure by any of them to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We also cannot assure you that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, that such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the insurance coverage provided will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event, nor can we assure you of the future financial viability of the insurers.

We maintain property and casualty insurance for our senior living operations, and we maintain general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations managed by Atria. The general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations managed by Sunrise is currently maintained by Sunrise in accordance with the terms of our management agreements. Under our management agreements with Sunrise, we may elect, on an annual basis, whether we or Sunrise will bear responsibility for maintaining the required insurance coverage for the applicable properties, but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains the insurance.

As part of our MOB development business, we provide engineering, construction and architectural services, and any design, construction or systems failures related to the properties we develop could result in substantial injury or damage to clients or third parties. Any such injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed projects. Although we maintain liability insurance to protect us against these claims, if any claim results in a loss, we cannot assure you that our policy limits would be adequate to cover the loss in full. If we sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to pay the difference and we could lose our investment in, or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

In an effort to reduce and manage costs and for various other reasons, many companies in the healthcare industry, including some of our tenants, operators and managers, utilize different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or programs (commonly referred to as “captives”) that may provide them with less insurance coverage. As a result, those companies who self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded professional liability expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  The implementation of a trust or captive by any of our tenants, operators or managers could adversely affect such person’s ability to satisfy its obligations under, or otherwise comply with the terms of, its respective lease, management and other agreements with us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Likewise, if we decide to implement a captive self-insurance program, any large funded and unfunded professional liability expenses that we incur could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Additional Information

We maintain a website at www.ventasreit.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.

We make available, free of charge, through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, our Guidelines on Governance, our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters for each of our Audit and Compliance, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Executive Compensation Committees are available on our website, and we will mail copies of the foregoing documents to stockholders, free of charge, upon request to our Corporate Secretary at Ventas, Inc., 353 North Clark Street, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois 60654.



GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

Healthcare Regulation

Overview

For the year endedDecember 31, 2012, approximately 20% of our total revenues and 30% of our total NOI (in each case excluding amounts in discontinued operations) were attributable to skilled nursing and other facilities and hospitals where our tenants (not our company) receive reimbursement for their services under governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. We are not a participant in these programs relating to our skilled nursing and other facilities and hospitals operated by tenants under lease agreements with us.

While the properties within our portfolio are all susceptible to many varying types of regulation, we expect that the healthcare industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse,










cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others. A significant expansion of applicable federal, state or local laws and regulations, previously enacted or future healthcare reform, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations or changes in enforcement priorities could have a material adverse effect on certain of our operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, or otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us. In addition, efforts by third-party payors, such as the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs and private insurance carriers, including health maintenance organizations and other health plans, to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls upon operators (through changes in reimbursement rates and methodologies, discounted fee structures, the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk or otherwise) are expected to intensify and continue. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could also have a Material Adverse Effect on certain of our operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.

Licensure, Certification and CONs

Participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs generally requires the operators of our skilled nursing facilities to be licensed on an annual or biannual basis and certified annually through various regulatory agencies that determine compliance with federal, state and local laws. These legal requirements relate to the quality of the nursing care provided, the qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment and continuing compliance with the laws and regulations governing the operation of skilled nursing facilities. The failure of an operator to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval or to correct serious deficiencies identified in compliance surveys could prevent it from continuing operations at a property. A loss of licensure or certification could also adversely affect a skilled nursing facility operator’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, its leases with us.

Similarly, in order to receive Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, our hospitals must meet the applicable conditions of participation established by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) relating to the type of hospital and its equipment, personnel and standard of medical care, as well as comply with state and local laws and regulations. Hospitals undergo periodic on-site licensure surveys, which generally are limited if the hospital is accredited by The Joint Commission (formerly the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) or other recognized accreditation organizations. A loss of licensure or certification could adversely affect a hospital’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, its leases with us.

Our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are also subject to various state CON laws requiring governmental approval prior to the development or expansion of healthcare facilities and services. The approval process in these states generally requires a facility to demonstrate the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. CONs, where applicable, are also sometimes necessary for changes in ownership or control of licensed facilities, addition of beds, investment in major capital equipment, introduction of new services or termination of services previously approved through the CON process. CON laws and regulations may restrict an operator’s ability to expand our properties and grow its business in certain circumstances, which could have an adverse effect on the operator’s revenues and, in turn, its ability to make rental payments under, and otherwise comply with the terms of, its leases with us.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Seniors housing communities, in contrast, are subject to relatively few, if any, federal regulations. Instead, to the extent they are regulated, the regulation is conducted mainly by state and local laws governing licensure, provision of services, staffing requirements and other operational matters. These laws vary greatly from one jurisdiction to another. Although recent growth in the U.S. seniors housing industry has attracted the attention of various federal agencies that believe more federal regulation of these properties is necessary, thus far, Congress has deferred to state regulation of seniors housing communities. However, as a result of this growth and increased federal scrutiny, some states have revised and strengthened their regulation of seniors housing communities, and more states are expected to do the same in the future.

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement

Various federal and state laws and regulations prohibit a wide variety of fraud and abuse by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or make or receive referrals for work in connection with government-funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The federal laws include, by way of example, the following:










•The anti-kickback statute (Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act), which prohibits certain business practices and relationships, including the payment, receipt or solicitation of any remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce a referral of any patient or service or item covered by a federal health care program, including Medicare or a state health program, such as Medicaid;

•The physician self-referral prohibition (Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the “Stark Law”), which prohibits referrals by physicians of Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of a broad range of designated healthcare services with which the physicians (or their immediate family members) have ownership interests or certain other financial arrangements;

•The False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment by the federal government (including the Medicare and Medicaid programs);

•The Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes HHS to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent acts; and

•The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (commonly referred to as “HIPAA”), which among other things, protects the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information by limiting its use and disclosure.

Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and civil penalties such as punitive sanctions, damage assessments, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments, and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These laws also impose an affirmative duty on operators to ensure that they do not employ or contract with persons excluded from the Medicare and other government programs.

Many states have adopted or are considering legislative proposals similar to the federal anti-fraud and abuse laws, some of which extend beyond the Medicare and Medicaid programs, to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and physician self-referrals, regardless of whether the service was reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid. Many states have also adopted or are considering legislative proposals to increase patient protections, such as minimum staffing levels, criminal background checks, and limiting the use and disclosure of patient specific health information. These state laws also impose criminal and civil penalties similar to the federal laws.

In the ordinary course of their business, the operators of our properties have been and are subject regularly to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee applicable laws and regulations. Increased funding through recent federal and state legislation has led to a significant increase in the number of investigations and enforcement actions over the past several years. Private enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that were designed to encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits by private individuals, known as qui tam suits, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former patients or nurses and other employees. HIPAA also created a series of new healthcare crimes.

As federal and state budget pressures persist, administrative agencies may continue to escalate their investigation and enforcement efforts to eliminate waste and to control fraud and abuse in governmental healthcare programs. A violation of  federal or state anti-fraud and abuse laws or regulations by an operator of our properties could have a material adverse effect on the operator’s liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, its leases and other agreements with us.

Reimbursement

In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, along with a reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Affordable Care Act”). The passage of the Affordable Care Act has resulted in comprehensive reform legislation that is expected to expand health care coverage to millions of currently uninsured people beginning in 2014. To help fund this expansion, the Affordable Care Act outlines certain reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates for various healthcare providers, including long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain other changes to Medicare payment methodologies.

The Affordable Care Act, among other things, reduced the inflationary market basket increase included in standard federal payment rates for long-term acute care hospitals by 25 basis points in fiscal year 2010, 50 basis points in fiscal year 2011, 10 basis points in fiscal years 2012 and 2013, 30 basis points in fiscal year 2014, 20 basis points in fiscal years 2015 and 2016, and 75 basis points in fiscal years 2017 through 2019. In addition, under the Affordable Care Act, long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are subject to a rate adjustment to the market basket increase, which began in fiscal year 2012, to reflect improvements in productivity. In July 2012, after considering the constitutionality of various provisions of the Affordable Care Act, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the so-called individual mandate and, while it found the provisions










expanding Medicaid eligibility unconstitutional, determined that the issue was appropriately remedied by circumscribing the Secretary of Health and Human Services’ enforcement authority, thus leaving the Medicaid expansion intact.

Healthcare is one of the largest industries in the United States and continues to attract a great deal of legislative interest and public attention. We cannot assure you that previously enacted or future healthcare reform legislation or changes in the administration or implementation of governmental and non-governmental healthcare reimbursement programs will not have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, or on their ability to satisfy their obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

In August 2011, President Obama and the U.S. Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “Budget Control Act”) to increase the federal government’s borrowing authority (the so-called “debt ceiling”) and reduce the federal government’s projected operating deficit. Under the Budget Control Act, a 2% reduction in Medicare payments to long-term acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities (part of $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts commonly referred to as “sequestration”) was expected to take effect on February 1, 2013.  The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 delayed the expected effectiveness of this 2% reduction to April 1, 2013.  These measures, alternatives to sequestration or any future federal legislation relating to the debt ceiling or deficit reduction could have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Medicare Reimbursement; Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals

The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (“BBA”) mandated the creation of a prospective payment system for long-term acute care hospitals (“LTAC PPS”) for cost reporting periods commencing on or after October 1, 2002. LTAC PPS requires payment for a Medicare beneficiary at a predetermined, per discharge amount for each defined patient category (called “Long-Term Care—Diagnosis Related Groups” or “LTC-DRGs”), adjusted for differences in area wage levels.

Updates to LTAC PPS payment rates are established by regulators and published annually for the long-term acute care hospital rate year, which coincides with annual updates to the LTC-DRG classification system and corresponds to the federal fiscal year (October 1 through September 30).  The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (Pub. L. No. 110-173) (the “Medicare Extension Act”) significantly expanded medical necessity reviews by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) by requiring long-term acute care hospitals to institute a patient review process to better assess patients upon admission and on a continuing basis for appropriateness of care.

In addition, the Medicare Extension Act, among other things, provided the following long-term acute care hospital payment policy changes, all of which were extended for two years by the Affordable Care Act:

•It prevented CMS from applying the “25-percent rule,” which limits payments from referring co-located hospitals, to freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals for three years;

•It modified the application of the 25-percent rule to certain urban and rural long-term acute care “hospitals-within-hospitals” and “satellite” facilities for three years;

•It prevented CMS from applying the “very short stay outlier” policy for three years; and

•It prevented CMS from making any one-time adjustments to correct estimates used in implementing LTAC PPS for three years.

Lastly, the Medicare Extension Act introduced a moratorium on new long-term acute care hospitals and beds for three years.  In its May 2008 final rule, CMS delayed the extension of the 25-percent rule to freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals and increased the patient percentage thresholds for certain urban and rural long-term acute care “hospitals-within-hospitals” and “satellite” facilities for three years, as mandated by the Medicare Extension Act. The rule also set forth policies on implementing the moratorium on new long-term acute care hospitals and beds imposed by the Medicare Extension Act.

In its August 2009 final rule, CMS finalized policies to implement changes required by Section 124 of the Medicare Improvements for Patients & Providers Act of 2008 (Pub. L. No. 110-275), continuing reforms intended to improve the accuracy of Medicare payments for inpatient acute care through the severity-adjusted diagnosis-related group (MS-LTC-DRG) classification system for long-term acute care hospitals.

On August 31, 2012, CMS published its final rule updating LTAC PPS for the 2013 fiscal year (October 1, 2012 through September 30, 2013). Under the rule, the LTAC PPS standard federal payment rate will increase by 1.8% in fiscal year 2013, reflecting a 2.6% increase in the market basket index, less both a 0.7% productivity adjustment and a 10 basis point adjustment mandated by the Affordable Care Act. After a one-time budget neutrality adjustment that the rule phases in over three years, the










LTAC PPS standard federal payment rate in fiscal 2013 will increase by 0.5%.  In addition, under the final rule, the moratorium on new long-term acute care hospitals and beds imposed by the Medicare Extension Act, and subsequently extended by the Affordable Care Act, expired on December 29, 2012, and the extension of the 25-percent rule to freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals is delayed for another year until December 29, 2013.  As a result, CMS estimates that net payments to long-term acute care hospitals under the final rule will increase by approximately $92 million, or 1.7%, in fiscal 2013 due to increases in high-cost and short-stay outlier payments and other changes; however, for discharges during the period from October 1, 2012 to December 29, 2012 (the effective date of the budget neutrality adjustment), net payments to long-term acute care hospitals will increase by 3%.

We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s rules on the operators of our long-term acute care hospitals, but we cannot assure you that current rules or future updates to LTAC PPS, LTC-DRGs or Medicare reimbursement for long-term acute care hospitals will not materially adversely affect our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Medicare Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities

The BBA also mandated the creation of a prospective payment system for skilled nursing facilities (“SNF PPS”) offering Part A covered services. Under SNF PPS, payment amounts are based upon classifications determined through assessments of individual Medicare patients in the skilled nursing facility, rather than on the facility’s reasonable costs. SNF PPS payments are made on a per diem basis for each resident and are generally intended to cover all inpatient services for Medicare patients, including routine nursing care, most capital-related costs associated with the inpatient stay, and ancillary services, such as respiratory therapy, occupational and physical therapy, speech therapy and certain covered drugs.

In response to widespread healthcare industry concern about the reductions in payments under the BBA, the federal government enacted the Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999 (“BBRA”). The BBRA increased the per diem reimbursement rates for certain high acuity patients by 20% from April 1, 2000 until CMS refined the resource utilization groups (“RUGs”) used to determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities in the 2006 fiscal year. The BBRA also imposed a two-year moratorium on the annual cap mandated by the BBA on physical, occupational and speech therapy services provided to a patient by outpatient rehabilitation therapy providers, including Part B covered therapy services in nursing facilities. Although extended multiple times by Congress, relief from the BBA therapy caps expired on December 31, 2009.

Under its final rule updating LTC-DRGs for the 2007 fiscal year, CMS reduced reimbursement of uncollectible Medicare coinsurance amounts for all beneficiaries (other than beneficiaries of both Medicare and Medicaid) from 100% to 70% for skilled nursing facility cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2005 and set forth various options for classifying and weighting patients transferred to a skilled nursing facility after a hospital stay less than the mean length of stay associated with that particular diagnosis-related group.

Under its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2010 fiscal year, CMS recalibrated the case-mix indexes for RUGs used to determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities and implemented the RUG-IV classification model for skilled nursing facilities for the 2011 fiscal year. However, the Affordable Care Act delayed the implementation of RUG-IV for one year, and CMS subsequently modified the implementation schedule in its notice updating SNF PPS for the 2011 fiscal year.

In its final Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rule for the 2012 calendar year, CMS set a $1,880 cap on physical therapy and speech-language pathology services and a separate $1,880 cap on occupational therapy services, including therapy provided in skilled nursing facilities, both without an exceptions process.  However, in January 2013, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (Pub. L. No. 112-96) was enacted to lift the caps on therapy services and require a manual review process for those exceptions for which the beneficiary therapy services exceed $3,700 in a year.

On July 27, 2012, CMS issued a notice updating SNF PPS for the 2013 fiscal year (October 1, 2012 through September 30, 2013). Pursuant to the notice, the update to the SNF PPS standard federal payment rate contained in CMS’s final rule for the 2012 fiscal year includes a 2.5% increase in the market basket index, less a 0.7% productivity adjustment mandated by the Affordable Care Act, resulting in a net 1.8% increase in the SNF PPS standard federal payment rate for fiscal year 2013. However, this update does not take into account the potential impact of sequestration. CMS estimates that net payments to skilled nursing facilities will increase by approximately $670 million in fiscal year 2013 as a result of the update pursuant to the notice.

We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s rules on the operators of our skilled nursing facilities, but we cannot assure you that current rules or future updates to SNF PPS, therapy services or Medicare reimbursement for skilled nursing facilities will not materially adversely affect our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.










See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Medicaid Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities

Approximately two-thirds of all nursing home residents are dependent on Medicaid. Medicaid reimbursement rates, however, typically are less than the amounts charged by the operators of our skilled nursing facilities. Although the federal government and the states share responsibility for financing Medicaid, states have a wide range of discretion, within certain federal guidelines, to determine eligibility and reimbursement methodology. In addition, federal legislation limits an operator’s ability to withdraw from the Medicaid program by restricting the eviction or transfer of Medicaid residents. As state budget pressures continue to escalate and in an effort to address actual or potential budget shortfalls, many state legislatures have enacted or proposed reductions to Medicaid expenditures by implementing “freezes” or cuts in Medicaid rates paid to providers, including hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, or by restricting eligibility and benefits.

In the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (Pub. L. No. 109 171), Congress made changes to the Medicaid program that were estimated to result in $10 billion in savings to the federal government over the five years following enactment of the legislation, primarily through the accounting practices some states use to calculate their matched payments and revising the qualifications for individuals who are eligible for Medicaid benefits. The changes made by CMS’s final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2006 fiscal year were also anticipated to reduce Medicaid payments to skilled nursing facility operators, and as part of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 (Pub. L. No. 109-432), Congress reduced the ceiling on taxes that states may impose on healthcare providers and that would qualify for federal financial participation under Medicaid by 0.5%, from 6% to 5.5%, until October 1, 2011. However, it was anticipated that this reduction would have a negligible effect, impacting only those states with taxes in excess of 5.5%.

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. No. 111-5) (the “Recovery Act”), in contrast, temporarily increased federal payments to state Medicaid programs by $86.6 billion through, among other things, a 6.2% increase in the federal share of Medicaid expenditures across the board, with additional funds available depending on a state’s federal medical assistance percentage and unemployment rate. Though the Medicaid federal assistance payments were originally expected to expire on December 31, 2010, the President’s fiscal year 2011 budget extended those payments through June 30, 2011. The Recovery Act also requires states to promptly pay nursing facilities under their Medicaid program, and precludes states, as a condition of receiving the additional funding, from heightening their Medicaid eligibility requirements.

We expect more states to adopt significant Medicaid rate freezes or cuts or other program changes as their reimbursement methodologies continue to evolve. In addition, the U.S. government may revoke, reduce or stop approving “provider taxes” that have the effect of increasing Medicaid payments to the states. We cannot predict what impact these actions would have on the operators of our skilled nursing facilities, and we cannot assure you that payments under Medicaid are now or in the future will be sufficient to fully reimburse those operators for the cost of providing skilled nursing services. Severe and widespread Medicaid rate cuts or freezes could materially adversely affect our skilled nursing facility operators, which, in turn, could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.

Environmental Regulation

As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health and safety matters. These laws and regulations address, among other things, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, fuel oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions, radioactive materials, medical wastes, and hazardous wastes, and in certain cases, the costs of complying with these laws and regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be substantial. Even with respect to properties that we do not operate or manage, we may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property from which there is or has been an actual or threatened release of a regulated material and any other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release. Such costs typically are not limited by law or regulation and could exceed the property’s value. In addition, we may be liable for certain other costs, such as governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources, as a result of any such actual or threatened release. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If any of our properties are found to be contaminated, or if we become involved in any environmental disputes, we could incur substantial liabilities and costs” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Under the terms of our lease and management agreements, we generally have a right to indemnification by the tenants, operators and managers of our properties for any contamination caused by them. However, we cannot assure you that our tenants, operators and managers will have the financial capability or willingness to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations to us, and any such inability or unwillingness to do so may require us to satisfy the underlying environmental










claims. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—We depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In general, we have also agreed to indemnify our tenants against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or relating to, the leased properties at any time before the applicable lease commencement date. With respect to our senior living operating portfolio, we have agreed to indemnify our managers against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition on those properties, unless the manager caused or contributed to that condition.

We did not make any material capital expenditures in connection with environmental, health, and safety laws, ordinances and regulations in2012and do not expect that we will be required to make any such material capital expenditures during2013.

CERTAIN U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS

The following discussion summarizes certain U.S. federal income tax considerations that you may deem relevant as a holder of our common stock. It is not tax advice, nor does it purport to address all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be important to particular stockholders in light of their personal circumstances or to certain types of stockholders, such as insurance companies, tax-exempt organizations (except to the extent discussed below under “—Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders”), financial institutions, pass-through entities (or investors in such entities) or broker-dealers, and non-U.S. individuals and entities (except to the extent discussed below under “—Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders”), that may be subject to special rules.

The statements in this section are based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), U.S. Treasury Regulations, Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) rulings, and judicial decisions now in effect, all of which are subject to change or different interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect. The laws governing the U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and their stockholders are highly technical and complex, and this discussion is qualified in its entirety by the authorities listed above. We cannot assure you that new laws, interpretations of law or court decisions will not cause any statement herein to be inaccurate.

Federal Income Taxation of Ventas

We elected REIT status beginning with the year ended December 31, 1999. Beginning with the 1999 tax year, we believe that we have satisfied the requirements to qualify as a REIT, and we intend to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. If we continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on net income that we currently distribute to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the “double taxation” (i.e., taxation at both the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation.

Notwithstanding such qualification, we will be subject to federal income tax on any undistributed taxable income, including undistributed net capital gains, at regular corporate rates. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax if we do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements. See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements.” Under certain circumstances, we may be subject to the “alternative minimum tax” on our undistributed items of tax preference. If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” (see below) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or certain other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we will be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on that income. See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Asset Tests.” In addition, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions” (which are, in general, certain sales or other dispositions of property (other than foreclosure property) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business), that income will be subject to a 100% tax.

We may also be subject to “Built-in Gains Tax” on any appreciated asset that we own or acquire that was previously owned by a C corporation (i.e., a corporation generally subject to full corporate-level tax). If we dispose of any such asset and recognize gain on the disposition during the ten-year period immediately after the asset was owned by a C corporation (either prior to our REIT election, or through stock acquisition or merger), then we generally will be subject to regular corporate income tax on the gain equal to the lesser of the recognized gain at the time of disposition or the built-in gain in that asset as of the date it became a REIT asset.

In addition, if we fail to satisfy either of the gross income tests for qualification as a REIT (as discussed below), but still maintain such qualification under the relief provisions of the Code, we will be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable test, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. If we violate one or more of the REIT asset tests (as discussed below), we may avoid a loss of our REIT status if we qualify under certain relief provisions and, among other things, pay a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate










multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying asset during a specified period. If we fail to satisfy any requirement for REIT qualification, other than the gross income or assets tests mentioned above, but nonetheless maintain such qualification by meeting certain other requirements, we may be subject to a $50,000 penalty for each failure. Finally, we will incur a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary (including rental income derived from leasing properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary) that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis.

See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT” below for other circumstances in which we may be required to pay federal taxes.

Requirements for Qualification as a REIT

To qualify as a REIT, we must meet the requirements discussed below relating to our organization, sources of income, nature of assets and distributions of income to stockholders.

Organizational Requirements

The Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association: (i) that is managed by one or more directors or trustees; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) that would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for Sections 856 through 859 of the Code; (iv) that is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code; (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (the “100 Shareholder Rule”); (vi) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year (the “5/50 Rule”); (vii) that makes an election to be a REIT (or has made such election for a previous taxable year) and satisfies all relevant filing and other administrative requirements established by the IRS that must be met in order to elect and to maintain REIT status; (viii) that uses a calendar year for federal income tax purposes; and (ix) that meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income and assets.

We believe but cannot assure you that we have satisfied and will continue to satisfy the organizational requirements for qualification as a REIT. Our certificate of incorporation contains certain restrictions on the transfer of our shares that are intended to prevent a concentration of ownership of our stock that would cause us to fail the 5/50 Rule or the 100 Shareholder Rule; however, we cannot assure you as to the effectiveness of these restrictions.

In addition, to qualify as a REIT, a corporation may not have (as of the end of the taxable year) any earnings and profits that were accumulated in periods before it elected REIT status or that are from acquired non-REIT corporations. We believe that we have not had any accumulated earnings and profits that are attributable to non-REIT periods or from acquired corporations that were not REITs, although the IRS is entitled to challenge that determination.

Gross Income Tests

We must satisfy two annual gross income requirements to qualify as a REIT:

•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must consist of defined types of income derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property (including pledges of equity interest in certain entities holding real property and also including “rents from real property” (as defined in the Code)) and, in certain circumstances, interest on certain types of temporary investment income; and

•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must be derived from such real property or temporary investments, dividends, interest and gain from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, or from any combination of the foregoing.

We believe but cannot assure you that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with the gross income tests described above. If we fail to satisfy one or both gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for that year if we qualify under certain relief provisions of the Code, in which case we would be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable test. If we fail to satisfy one or both of the gross income tests and do not qualify under the relief provisions for any taxable year, we will not qualify as a REIT for that year, which would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Asset Tests

At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must satisfy the following tests relating to the nature of our assets:

•At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by cash or cash items (including certain










receivables), government securities, “real estate assets” (including interests in real property and in mortgages on real property and shares in other qualifying REITs) or, in cases where we raise new capital through stock or long-term (maturity of at least five years) debt offerings, temporary investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following our receipt of such capital (the “75% asset test”); and

•Of the investments not meeting the requirements of the 75% asset test, the value of any one issuer’s debt and equity securities owned by us (other than our equity interests in any entity classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the stock or debt of a taxable REIT subsidiary or the stock or debt of a qualified REIT subsidiary or other disregarded entity subsidiary) may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets (the “5% asset test”), and we may not own more than 10% of any one issuer’s outstanding voting securities (the “10% voting securities test”) or 10% of the value of any one issuer’s outstanding securities (the “10% value test”), subject to limited “safe harbor” exceptions.

In addition, no more than 25% of the value of our assets (20% for taxable years beginning prior to 2009) can be represented by securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “25% TRS test”).

We believe but cannot assure you that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with the asset tests described above. If we fail to satisfy one or more asset tests at the end of any quarter, we may nevertheless continue to qualify as a REIT if we satisfied all of the asset tests at the close of the preceding calendar quarter and the discrepancy between the value of our assets and the asset test requirements is due to changes in the market values of our assets and not caused in any part by our acquisition of non-qualifying assets.

Foreclosure Property

The foreclosure property rules permit us (by our election) to foreclose or repossess properties without being disqualified as a REIT as a result of receiving income that does not qualify under the gross income tests. However, in that case, we would be subject to a corporate tax on the net non-qualifying income from “foreclosure property,” and the after-tax amount would increase the dividends we would be required to distribute to stockholders. See “—Annual Distribution Requirements” below. The corporate tax imposed on non-qualifying income would not apply to income that qualifies as “good REIT income,” such as a lease of qualified healthcare property to a taxable REIT subsidiary, where the taxable REIT subsidiary engages an eligible independent contractor to manage and operate the property.

Foreclosure property treatment will end on the first day on which we enter into a lease of the applicable property that will give rise to income that does not constitute “good REIT income” under Section 856(c)(3) of the Code, but such treatment will not end if the lease will give rise only to “good REIT income.” In addition, foreclosure property treatment will end if any construction takes place on the property (other than completion of a building or other improvement more than 10% complete before default became imminent). Foreclosure property treatment (other than for qualified healthcare property) is available for an initial period of three years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional three years. Foreclosure property treatment for qualified healthcare property is available for an initial period of two years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional four years.

Taxable REIT Subsidiaries

A taxable REIT subsidiary, or “TRS,” is a corporation subject to tax as a regular C corporation. Generally, a TRS can own assets that cannot be owned by a REIT and can perform tenant services (excluding the direct or indirect operation or










management of a lodging or healthcare facility) that would otherwise disqualify the REIT’s rental income under the gross income tests. Also, notwithstanding general restrictions on related party rent, a REIT can lease healthcare properties to a TRS if the TRS does not manage or operate the healthcare facilities and instead engages an “eligible independent contractor” to manage the healthcare facilities. We are permitted to own up to 100% of a TRS, subject to the 25% TRS test, but there are certain limits on the ability of a TRS to deduct interest payments made to us. In addition, we are subject to a 100% penalty tax on any excess payments that we receive or any excess expenses deducted by the TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties.

Annual Distribution Requirements

We believe but cannot assure you that we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for the year of our initial REIT election and each year thereafter through the year endedDecember 31, 2012. Although we intend to satisfy the annual distribution requirements to continue to qualify as a REIT for the year ending December 31,2013and subsequent years, economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations could limit our ability to meet those requirements.

We also have net operating loss carryforwards that we may use to reduce our annual distribution requirements. See “Note 13—Income Taxes” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Failure to Continue to Qualify

If we fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT qualification, other than by violating a gross income or asset test for which relief is otherwise available as described above, we would retain our REIT qualification if the failure is due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect and if we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each such failure. We cannot predict, however, whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of this relief provision.

If our election to be taxed as a REIT is revoked or terminated (e.g., due to a failure to meet the REIT qualification tests without qualifying for any applicable relief provisions), we would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (for all open tax years beginning with the year our REIT election is revoked or terminated), and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us, nor would they be required to be made. To the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits, all distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary income (except to the extent such dividends are eligible for the qualified dividends rate generally available to non-corporate holders), and, subject to certain limitations in the Code, corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction. In addition, we would be prohibited from re-electing REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions of the Code applied. We cannot predict, however, whether we would be entitled to such relief.

Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Stockholders

As used herein, the term “U.S. Stockholder” refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, an estate the income of which is includible in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes regardless of its source, or a trust if (i) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. persons have authority to control all substantial










decisions of the trust or (ii) the trust has elected under applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations to retain its pre-August 20, 1996 classification as a U.S. person. If an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner in the partnership will generally depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. Partners of partnerships holding our stock should consult their tax advisors. This section assumes the U.S. Stockholder holds our common stock as a capital asset.

We may elect to treat all or a part of our undistributed net capital gain as if it had been distributed to our stockholders. If we make such an election, our stockholders would be required to include in their income as long-term capital gain their proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain, as designated by us. Each such stockholder would be deemed to have paid its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such undistributed net capital gain, and this amount would be credited or refunded to the stockholder. In addition, the tax basis of the stockholder’s shares would be increased by its proportionate share of undistributed net capital gains included in its income, less its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such gains.

Stockholders may not include in their individual income tax returns any of our net operating losses or net capital losses. Instead, we would carry over those losses for potential offset against our future income, subject to certain limitations. Taxable distributions from us and gain from the disposition of our common stock will not be treated as passive activity income, and, therefore, stockholders generally will not be able to apply any “passive activity losses” (such as losses from certain types of limited partnerships in which the stockholder is a limited partner) against such income. In addition, taxable distributions from us generally will be treated as investment income for purposes of the investment interest limitations.

We will notify stockholders after the close of our taxable year as to the portions of the distributions attributable to that year that constitute ordinary income, return of capital and capital gain. To the extent a portion of the distribution is designated as a capital gain dividend, we will notify stockholders as to the portion that is a “20% rate gain distribution” and the portion that is an unrecaptured Section 1250 distribution. A 20% rate gain distribution is a capital gain distribution to domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts that is taxable at a maximum rate of 20%. An unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution would be taxable to taxable domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%.

Taxation of U.S. Stockholders on the Disposition of Shares of Common Stock

In general, a U.S. Stockholder who is not a dealer in securities must treat any gain or loss realized upon a taxable disposition of our common stock as long-term capital gain or loss if the stockholder has held the shares for more than one year, and otherwise as short-term capital gain or loss. However, a U.S. Stockholder must treat any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our common stock held for six months or less as a long-term capital loss to the extent of capital gain dividends and any other actual or deemed distributions from us which the stockholder treats as long-term capital gain. All or a portion of any loss that a U.S. Stockholder realizes upon a taxable disposition of our common stock may be disallowed if the stockholder purchases other shares of our common stock (or certain options to acquire our common stock) within 30 days before or after the disposition.

Medicare Tax on Investment Income

For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012, certain U.S. stockholders who are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds will be required to pay a 3.8% Medicare tax on dividends and certain other investment income, including capital gains from the sale or other disposition of our common stock.










Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders

Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders

As used herein, the term “Non-U.S. Stockholder” refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a nonresident alien individual, foreign corporation, foreign estate or foreign trust, but does not include any foreign stockholder whose investment in our stock is “effectively connected” with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Such a foreign stockholder, in general, will be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to its investment in our stock in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals). In addition, a foreign corporation receiving income that is treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business also may be subject to an additional 30% “branch profits tax” on its effectively connected earnings and profits (subject to adjustments) unless an applicable tax treaty provides a lower rate or an exemption. Certain certification requirements must be satisfied in order for effectively connected income to be exempt from withholding.

Distributions to Non-U.S. Stockholders that are not attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests and are not designated by us as capital gain dividends (or deemed distributions of retained capital gains) will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Such distributions ordinarily will be subject to a withholding tax equal to 30% of the gross amount of the distribution unless an applicable tax treaty reduces or eliminates that tax. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to a Non-U.S. Stockholder to the extent that such distributions do not exceed the adjusted basis of the stockholder’s shares (determined on a share-by-share basis), but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of those shares. To the extent that distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the adjusted basis of a Non-U.S. Stockholder’s shares, such distributions will give rise to tax liability if the Non-U.S. Stockholder would otherwise be subject to tax on any gain from the sale or disposition of its shares, as described below.

We expect to withhold U.S. tax at the rate of 30% on the gross amount of any dividends, other than dividends treated as attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests and capital gain dividends, paid to a Non-U.S. Stockholder, unless (i) a lower treaty rate applies and the required IRS Form W-8BEN evidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is filed with us or the appropriate withholding agent or (ii) the Non-U.S. Stockholder files an IRS Form W-8ECI or a successor form with us or the appropriate withholding agent properly claiming that the distributions are effectively connected with the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s conduct of a U.S. trade or business.










creditable against the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s FIRPTA tax liability.

In general, the sale or other taxable disposition of our common stock by a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder also will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax if we are a “domestically controlled REIT.” A REIT is a “domestically controlled REIT” if, at all times during the five-year period preceding the disposition in question, less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by Non-U.S. Stockholders. Although we believe that we currently qualify as a domestically controlled REIT, because our common stock is publicly traded, we cannot assure you that we do so qualify or that we will qualify as a domestically controlled REIT at any time in the future. If we do not constitute a domestically controlled REIT, a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder generally will be taxed in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder with respect to gain on the sale of our common stock (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals).

Information Reporting Requirements and Backup Withholding Tax

Information returns may be filed with the IRS and backup withholding tax may be collected in connection with distributions paid or required to be treated as paid during each calendar year and payments of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of our common stock. Under the backup withholding rules, a stockholder may be subject to backup withholding at the applicable rate (currently 28%) with respect to distributions paid and proceeds from a disposition of our common stock unless such holder is a corporation, non-U.S. person or comes within certain other exempt categories and, when required, demonstrates this fact or provides a taxpayer identification number, certifies as to no loss of exemption from backup withholding and otherwise complies with the applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules. A stockholder who does not provide us with its correct taxpayer identification number also may be subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.

Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the U.S. federal income tax liability of persons subject to backup withholding tax will be offset by the amount of tax withheld. If backup withholding tax results in an overpayment of U.S. federal income taxes, a refund or credit may be obtained from the IRS, provided the required information is furnished timely thereto.

As a general matter, backup withholding and information reporting will not apply to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock by or through a foreign office of a foreign broker. Information reporting (but not backup withholding) will










apply, however, to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock by a foreign office of a broker that is a U.S. person, a foreign partnership that engaged during certain periods in the conduct of a trade or business in the United States or more than 50% of whose capital or profit interests are owned during certain periods by U.S. persons, any foreign person that derives 50% or more of its gross income for certain periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, or a “controlled foreign corporation” for U.S. tax purposes, unless the broker has documentary evidence in its records that the holder is a Non-U.S. Stockholder and certain other conditions are satisfied, or the stockholder otherwise establishes an exemption. Payment to or through a U.S. office of a broker of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock is subject to both backup withholding and information reporting unless the stockholder certifies under penalties of perjury that the stockholder is a Non-U.S. Stockholder or otherwise establishes an exemption. A stockholder may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules in excess of its U.S. federal income tax liability by timely filing the appropriate claim for a refund with the IRS.

Other Tax Consequences

State and Local Taxes

We and our stockholders may be subject to taxation by various states and localities, including those in which we or a stockholder transact business, own property or reside. State and local tax treatment may differ from the federal income tax treatment described above. Consequently, stockholders should consult their own tax advisers regarding the effect of state and local tax laws, in addition to federal, foreign and other tax laws, in connection with an investment in our common stock.

Possible Legislative or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences

You should recognize that future legislative, judicial and administrative actions or decisions, which may be retroactive in effect, could adversely affect our federal income tax treatment or the tax consequences of an investment in shares of our common stock. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, resulting in statutory changes as well as promulgation of new, or revisions to existing, regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts.  We cannot predict the likelihood of passage of any new tax legislation or other provisions either directly or indirectly affecting us or our stockholders or the value of an investment in our common stock.



