ITEM 1.Business



BUSINESS



Overview



We are a REIT with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors
    housing and healthcare properties in the United States and
    Canada. As of December 31, 2010, our portfolio consisted of
    602 assets: 240 seniors housing communities, 187 skilled nursing
    facilities, 40 hospitals and 135 medical office buildings
    (“MOBs”) and other properties in 43 U.S. states,
    the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces. With the
    exception of our seniors housing communities that are managed by
    independent third parties, such as Sunrise, pursuant to
    long-term management agreements and certain of our MOBs,
    including those acquired in connection with our Lillibridge
    Healthcare Services, Inc. (“Lillibridge”) acquisition
    (see “Note 4 — Acquisitions of Real Estate
    Property” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K),we lease our properties to healthcare operating companies under“triple-net”or“absolute-net”leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related
    expenses. We also had real estate loan and other investments
    relating to seniors housing and healthcare companies or
    properties as of December 31, 2010.



Our primary business consists of acquiring, financing and owning
    seniors housing and healthcare properties and leasing those
    properties to third parties or operating those properties
    through independent third party managers. Through our
    Lillibridge subsidiary, we also provide management, leasing,
    marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly
    rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States.



In October 2010, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire
    substantially all of the real estate assets of privately-owned
    Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. (together with its affiliates,
    “Atria”) for a total purchase price of
    $3.1 billion, comprised of $1.35 billion of our common
    stock (a fixed 24.96 million shares), $150 million in
    cash and the assumption or repayment of $1.6 billion of net
    debt. We will acquire from Atria 118 private pay seniors housing
    communities located primarily in affluent coastal markets such
    as the New York metropolitan area, New England and
    California. Atria, based in Louisville, Kentucky, is owned by
    private equity funds managed by Lazard Real Estate Partners.
    Prior to the closing, Atria will spin off its management
    company, which will continue to operate the acquired assets
    under long-term management agreements with us. Completion of the
    transaction is subject to certain conditions. We expect to
    complete the transaction in the first half of 2011, although we
    cannot assure you that the transaction will close on such
    timetable or at all.



We were incorporated in Kentucky in 1983, commenced operations
    in 1985 and reorganized as a Delaware corporation in 1987. We
    operate through three reportable business segments:triple-netleased properties, senior living operations and MOB operations.
    See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes,
    including “Note 2 — Accounting
    Policies,” included in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Business
    Strategy



Our business strategy is comprised of three principal
    objectives: (1) generating consistent, reliable and growing
    cash flows; (2) maintaining a well-diversified portfolio;
    and (3) preserving our investment grade balance sheet and
    liquidity.



Consistent,
    Reliable and Growing Cash Flows



Our primary objective is to enhance shareholder value by
    generating consistent, reliable and growing cash flows through
    healthcare and seniors housing assets. To achieve this
    objective, we seek to balance our portfolio of healthcare and
    seniors housing properties with a combination of long-termtriple-netleases that provide steady contractual growth, seniors housing
    operating assets that provide higher growth potential and MOBs
    that provide long-term stable cash flows.





Well-Diversified
    Portfolio



We believe that maintaining a portfolio of properties and real
    estate loan investments diversified by asset class,
    tenant/operator, geography, revenue source and business model
    makes us less susceptible to regional economic downturns and
    adverse changes in regulation or reimbursement rates or
    methodologies in any single state. Portfolio diversification
    also reduces our exposure to any single tenant/operator and the
    risk that a single event could materially harm our business.



Investment
    Grade Balance Sheet and Liquidity



Having a strong balance sheet and liquidity positions us
    favorably for growth and also reduces risk. We seek to protect
    our capital and invest profitably by actively managing our
    leverage, lowering our cost of capital and maintaining multiple
    sources of liquidity, such as unsecured bank debt, mortgage
    financings and access to the public debt and equity markets.



Portfolio
    of Properties and Other Investments



As of December 31, 2010, we had: 100% ownership interests
    in 538 of our properties, including all 79 of our seniors
    housing communities managed by Sunrise; controlling interests in
    six MOBs owned through joint ventures with partners who provide
    management and leasing services for the properties; and
    noncontrolling interests ranging between 5% and 20% in 58 MOBs
    owned through joint ventures with institutional third party
    partners. Through our Lillibridge subsidiary, we also managed an
    additional 31 MOBs for third parties as of December 31,
    2010.



The following table provides an overview of our portfolio of
    properties and other investments as of and for the year ended
    December 31, 2010:



Real EstatePercent ofReal EstatePercent ofInvestmentNumber# of# ofTotalInvestments,Real EstatePerof States/Portfolio by TypePropertiesBeds/UnitsRevenueRevenuesat CostInvestmentsBed/UnitProvinces(1)(Dollars in thousands)Seniors Housing and Healthcare PropertiesSeniors housing communities24022,570$638,09162.8%$4,850,99371.9%$214.936Skilled nursing facilities18722,151181,31417.8810,28512.036.629Hospitals403,51695,7199.4345,1725.198.217MOBs(2)127—69,7476.9734,11610.9nm20Other properties81221,0020.17,1330.158.51Total seniors housing and healthcare properties60248,359985,87397.0%$6,747,699100.0%46Other InvestmentsLoans and investments16,4121.6$1,002,28598.6%(3)









nm — not meaningful.



(1)As of December 31, 2010, our seniors housing and healthcare
    properties were located in 43 states, the District of
    Columbia and two Canadian provinces and were operated or managed
    by 23 different third-party operators or managers.(2)As of December 31, 2010, 25 of our MOBs were managed by
    nine different third-party managers, 101 of our MOBs were
    managed by Lillibridge and one MOB was leased under atriple-netlease.(3)The remainder of our total revenues is interest and other income
    and medical office building services revenue. Revenues from
    properties sold during 2010 are excluded from this presentation.







Seniors
    Housing and Healthcare Properties



Seniors Housing Communities.Our
    seniors housing communities include independent and assisted
    living communities, and communities providing care for
    individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of
    dementia or memory loss. These communities offer residential
    units on amonth-to-monthbasis primarily to elderly individuals requiring various levels
    of assistance. Basic services for residents of these communities
    include housekeeping, meals in a central dining area and group
    activities organized by the staff with input from the residents.
    More extensive care and personal supervision, at additional
    fees, are also available for such needs as eating, bathing,
    grooming, transportation, limited therapeutic programs and
    medication administration, all of which encourage the residents
    to live as independently as possible according to their
    abilities. These services are often met by home health
    providers, close coordination with the resident’s physician
    and skilled nursing facilities.



Skilled Nursing Facilities.Our
    skilled nursing facilities typically provide nursing care
    services to the elderly and rehabilitation and restoration
    services, including physical, occupational and speech therapies,
    and other medical treatment for patients and residents who do
    not require the high technology, care-intensive setting of an
    acute care or rehabilitation hospital.



Hospitals.



Medical Office Buildings.Our MOBs
    offer office space primarily to physicians and other healthcare
    businesses. While these properties are similar to commercial
    office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and
    mechanical systems to accommodate multiple physicians’
    offices and examination rooms that may have sinks in every room,
    brighter lights and specialized medical equipment. MOBs are
    typically multi-tenant properties leased to multiple healthcare
    providers (hospitals and physician practices). As of
    December 31, 2010, our owned and managed MOB portfolio
    consisted of over 8.8 million square feet.



Other Properties.Our other properties
    consist of personal care facilities, which provide specialized
    care, including supported living services, neurorehabilitation,
    neurobehavioral management and vocational programs, for persons
    with acquired or traumatic brain injury.



Other
    Investments



As of December 31, 2010, we had $149.3 million of net
    loans receivable secured by seniors housing and healthcare
    companies or properties. See “Note 6 — Loans
    Receivable” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
    Report onForm 10-K.



As of December 31, 2010, we also had marketable debt
    securities classified asavailable-for-sale,with a cost basis of $61.9 million and a fair market value
    of $66.7 million.



Geographic
    Diversification



Our portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties is
    broadly diversified by geographic location in the United States
    and Canada, with properties in only two states comprising more
    than 10% of our 2010 total





revenues. The following table shows our rental income and
    resident fees and services derived by geographic location for
    our portfolio of properties for the year ended December 31,
    2010:



Rental Income andResident Fees andPercent of TotalServicesRevenues(Dollars in thousands)Geographic LocationCalifornia$122,26612.0%Illinois104,15310.2Pennsylvania57,1315.6Massachusetts51,2015.0New Jersey48,8564.8Colorado43,1144.2Florida38,4603.8Georgia35,4003.5New York35,3613.5Michigan32,6503.2Other (33 states and the District of Columbia)332,77132.9Total U.S901,36388.7%Canada (two Canadian provinces)84,5108.3Total$985,87397.0%(1)









(1)The remainder of our total revenues is medical office building
    services revenue, income from loans and investments and interest
    and other income. Revenues from properties sold during 2010 are
    excluded from this presentation.



Segment
    Information



As of December 31, 2010, we operated through three
    reportable business segments:triple-netleased properties, senior living operations and MOB operations.
    See “Note 19 — Segment Information” of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-Kfor more information about our business segments and the
    geographic diversification of our portfolio of properties.



Certificates
    of Need



A majority of our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are
    located in states that have certificate of need
    (“CON”) requirements. A CON, which is issued by a
    governmental agency with jurisdiction over healthcare
    facilities, is at times required for expansion of existing
    facilities, construction of new facilities, addition of beds,
    acquisition of major items of equipment or introduction of new
    services. The CON rules and regulations may restrict our or our
    operators’ ability to expand our properties in certain
    circumstances.



The following table shows the percentage of our rental income
    derived by skilled nursing facilities and hospitals in states
    with and without CON requirements for the year ended
    December 31, 2010:



SkilledNursingFacilitiesHospitalsTotalStates with CON requirements74.0%48.5%65.2%States without CON requirements26.051.534.8Total100.0%100.0%100.0%







Significant
    Tenants, Operators and Managers



As of December 31, 2010, approximately 37.9%, 19.7% and
    13.1% of our properties, based on the gross book value of real
    estate investments, were managed or operated by Sunrise,
    Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred, respectively. For the year
    ended December 31, 2010 (including amounts in discontinued
    operations):



•our senior living operations managed by Sunrise accounted for
    approximately 43.4% of our total revenues and 22.7% of our total
    earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
    (including non-cash stock-based compensation), excluding
    merger-related expenses and deal costs, gains and losses on real
    estate disposals and asset impairmentsand/orvaluation allowances (“Adjusted EBITDA”);•our four master lease agreements with Kindred (the “Kindred
    Master Leases”) accounted for approximately 24.2% of our
    total revenues and 35.6% of our total net operating income
    (“NOI,” which is defined as total revenues, less
    interest and other income, property-level operating expenses and
    MOB services costs); and•our leases with Brookdale Senior Living accounted for
    approximately 11.9% of our total revenues and 17.3% of our total
    NOI.



Triple-NetLeased Properties



Each of our Kindred Master Leases and our leases with Brookdale
    Senior Living is atriple-netlease pursuant to which the tenant is required to pay all taxes,
    utilities and maintenance and repairs related to the properties
    and to maintain and pay all insurance covering the properties
    and their operations. In addition, the tenants are required to
    comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if
    any, affecting the properties.



triple-net

Form 10-K.



Kindred Master Leases.  We lease 197
    properties to Kindred. The aggregate annual rent we receive
    under each Kindred Master Lease is referred to as “Base
    Rent.” Base Rent escalates on May 1 of each year at a
    specified rate over the “Prior Period Base Rent” (as
    defined in the applicable Kindred Master Lease), contingent upon
    the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters. The
    annual rent escalator is 2.7% under Kindred Master Leases 1, 3
    and 4. The annual rent escalator under Kindred Master Lease 2 is
    based onyear-over-yearchanges in the Consumer Price Index, with a floor of 2.25% and a
    ceiling of 4%. Assuming the applicable facility revenue
    parameters are met, we currently expect that Base Rent due under
    the Kindred Master Leases will be approximately
    $254.9 million from May 1, 2011 through April 30,
    2012. See “Note 3 — Concentration of Credit
    Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.





The properties we lease to Kindred pursuant to the Kindred
    Master Leases are grouped into bundles that contain a varying
    number of properties. All properties within a single bundle have
    the same primary lease term of ten to fifteen years from
    May 1, 1998 and, provided certain conditions are satisfied,
    are subject to three five-year renewal terms. Kindred has
    renewed, through April 30, 2013, its leases covering all
    57 properties owned by us with a primary lease term that
    expired on April 30, 2008. Kindred has also renewed,
    through April 30, 2015, its leases covering all 109
    properties owned by us (one of which we subsequently sold in
    June 2009) with a primary lease term that expired on
    April 30, 2010. Kindred retains two sequential five-year
    renewal options for all 165 of these assets.



Form 10-K.



Brookdale Senior Living Leases.  Our
    leases with Brookdale have primary terms of fifteen years, which
    commenced January 28, 2004 (in the case of ten “Grand
    Court” properties we acquired in 2004) or
    October 19, 2004 (in the case of the properties we acquired
    in connection with our Provident Senior Living Trust
    (“Provident”) acquisition), and, provided certain
    conditions are satisfied, are subject to two ten-year renewal
    terms. Our leases with Alterra also have primary terms of
    fifteen years, which commenced October 20, 2004 or
    December 16, 2004 (both in the case of properties we
    acquired in connection with our Provident acquisition), and,
    provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to two
    five-year renewal terms. Brookdale Senior Living guarantees all
    of Brookdale’s and Alterra’s obligations under these
    leases, and all of our Brookdale Senior Living leases are
    cross-defaulted.



Form 10-K.





Senior
    Living Operations



Sunrise currently provides comprehensive accounting and property
    management services with respect to 79 of our seniors housing
    communities pursuant to long-term management agreements. Each
    management agreement has a term of 30 years from its
    effective date, the earliest of which began in 2004. In December
    2010, we and Sunrise modified the management agreements to,
    among other things, reduce the management fee paid to Sunrise
    for the period from April 1, 2010 through December 31,
    2010 and for all of 2011 to 3.50% and 3.75% per annum,
    respectively, after which the annual base management fee will
    equal 6% of revenues (with a range of 5% to 7%), cap the amount
    of incentive management fees payable to Sunrise and allocated
    “shared services” expenses, provide enhanced rights
    and remedies for us in the event of a Sunrise default and
    reallocate the NOI performance thresholds to include a cushion
    for all 79 communities. See “Note 3 —
    Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Although we have various rights as owner under the Sunrise
    management agreements, we rely on Sunrise’s personnel, good
    faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources
    and information systems, proprietary information and judgment to
    manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and
    effectively. We also rely on Sunrise to set resident fees and
    otherwise operate those properties in compliance with our
    management agreements. Because Sunrise manages a significant
    portion of our properties, Sunrise’s inability to
    efficiently and effectively manage those properties and to
    provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect
    thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition,
    Sunrise’s inability or unwillingness to satisfy its
    obligations under our management agreements, changes in
    Sunrise’s senior management or any adverse developments in
    Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See “Risk
    Factors — Risks Arising from Our Business —
    The properties managed by Sunrise account for a significant
    portion of our revenues and operating income; Adverse
    developments in Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial
    condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us”
    included in Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Competition



We generally compete for real property investments with other
    healthcare REITs, healthcare operators, healthcare lenders,
    developers, real estate partnerships, banks, insurance
    companies, pension funds, private equity firms and other
    investors. Some of our competitors may have greater financial
    resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased
    competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and
    successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our
    objectives. Our ability to compete successfully for real
    property investments is affected by, among other factors, the
    availability of suitable acquisition or investment targets, our
    ability to negotiate acceptable acquisition or investment terms
    and our access to and cost of capital. See “Risk
    Factors — Risks Arising from Our Business —
    We may encounter certain risks when implementing our business
    strategy to pursue investments in,and/oracquisitions or development of, additional seniors housingand/orhealthcare assets” included in Item 1A of this Annual
    Report onForm 10-Kand “Note 9 — Borrowing Arrangements”
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Revenues from our properties are dependent on the ability of the
    operators and managers of those properties to compete with other
    seniors housing and healthcare operators and managers. Operators
    and managers compete on a local and regional basis for
    residents, tenants and patients based on several factors. The
    operators and managers of our seniors housing communities,
    skilled nursing facilities and hospitals compete to attract and
    retain residents and patients based on the scope and quality of
    care and services provided, their ability to attract and retain
    qualified personnel, their reputation and financial condition,
    price, location and physical appearance of the properties,
    physician referrals and family preferences. The managers of our
    medical office buildings compete to attract and retain tenants
    based on many of the same factors, in addition to the quality of
    the affiliated health system, physician preferences and
    proximity to hospital campuses. Private, federal and state
    reimbursement programs and the effect of other laws and
    regulations also may have a significant impact on our
    operators’ and managers’ ability to compete
    successfully for residents, tenants and patients at our
    properties. See “Risk Factors — Risks Arising
    from Our Business — Our tenants,





operators and managers may be adversely affected by increasing
    healthcare regulation and enforcement” and
    “— Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods
    of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and
    Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on
    certain of our tenants and operators” included in
    Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had 263 full-time
    employees, including 196 employees at our Lillibridge
    subsidiary. We consider our relationship with our employees to
    be good.



Insurance



We maintainand/orrequire in our existing leases and other agreements that our
    tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of
    insurance on our properties and their operations. For example,
    pursuant to the terms of the Kindred Master Leases, Kindred is
    required to maintain, at its expense, specified types and
    minimum levels of insurance coverage related to the leased
    properties and Kindred’s operations at those properties. We
    believe that our tenants, operators and managers are in
    compliance with the insurance requirements contained in their
    respective leases and other agreements with us; however, we
    cannot assure you that such parties will maintain the required
    insurance coverages, and the failure by any of them to do so
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We also cannot
    assure you that we will continue to require the same levels of
    insurance coverage under our leases and other agreements.



We maintain casualty insurance for our seniors housing
    communities managed by Sunrise, but Sunrise currently maintains
    the general and professional liability insurance covering those
    properties and their related operations in accordance with the
    standards contained in our management agreements. Under the
    management agreements, we may elect, on an annual basis, whether
    we or Sunrise will bear responsibility for maintaining the
    required insurance coverage for our Sunrise-managed properties,
    but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from
    the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains
    the insurance.



As part of our MOB development business, we provide engineering,
    construction and architectural services, and design,
    construction or systems failures may result in substantial
    injury or damage to clientsand/orthird
    parties. Injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary
    course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed
    projects. Although we maintain liability insurance, if any claim
    results in a loss, we cannot assure you that our insurance
    coverage would be adequate to cover the loss in full. If we
    sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be
    required to make a payment for the difference and could lose our
    investment in, and/or experience reduced profits and cash flows
    from, the affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on us.



We believe that the amount and scope of insurance coverage
    provided by our policies and the policies maintained by our
    tenants, operators and managers are customary for similarly
    situated companies in our industry. We cannot assure you that in
    the future we or our tenants, operators and managers will be
    able to maintain the same levels of insurance coverage or that
    such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost. In
    addition, we cannot give any assurances as to the future
    financial viability of our insurers or that the insurance
    coverage provided will fully cover all losses on our properties
    upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event.



In an effort to reduce and manage costs and for various other
    reasons, many healthcare providers are pursuing different
    organizational and corporate structures coupled with
    self-insurance programs that may provide them with less
    insurance coverage. As a result, the tenants, operators and
    managers of our properties could incur large funded and unfunded
    professional liability expense, which could have a material
    adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition and
    results of operations and, in turn, on their ability to make
    rental payments under, or otherwise comply with the terms of,
    their respective leases and other agreements with us, which
    could adversely affect our results of operations.





Additional
    Information



We maintain a website at www.ventasreit.com. The information on
    our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual
    Report onForm 10-K,and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference
    only.



We make available, free of charge, through our website our
    Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, our
    Guidelines on Governance, the charters for each of our Audit and
    Compliance, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Executive
    Compensation Committees and our Code of Ethics and Business
    Conduct are available on our website, and we will mail copies of
    the foregoing documents to stockholders, free of charge, upon
    request to our Corporate Secretary at Ventas, Inc., 10350 Ormsby
    Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223.



GOVERNMENTAL
    REGULATION



Healthcare
    Regulation



Overview





Licensure
    and Certification



Participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs generally
    requires the operators of our skilled nursing facilities to be
    licensed on an annual or bi-annual basis and certified annually
    through various regulatory agencies that determine compliance
    with federal, state and local laws. These legal requirements
    relate to the quality of the nursing care provided,
    qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing
    staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment and
    continuing compliance with the laws and regulations governing
    the operation of skilled nursing facilities. The failure of an
    operator to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory
    approval or to correct serious deficiencies identified in
    compliance surveys could prevent it from continuing operations
    at a property. A loss of licensure or certification could also
    adversely affect a skilled nursing facility operator’s
    ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid
    programs, which, in turn, could affect adversely their ability
    to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making
    rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms
    of, their leases with us.



Similarly, in order to receive Medicare and Medicaid
    reimbursement, our hospitals must meet the applicable conditions
    of participation set forth by the U.S. Department of Health
    and Human Services





(“HHS”) relating to the type of hospital and its
    equipment, personnel and standard of medical care, as well as
    comply with state and local laws and regulations. Hospitals
    undergo periodicon-sitelicensure surveys, which generally are limited if the hospital
    is accredited by The Joint Commission (formerly the Joint
    Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) or
    other recognized accreditation organizations. A loss of
    licensure or certification could adversely affect a
    hospital’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare
    and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect
    their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations,
    including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying
    with the terms of, their leases with us.



Seniors housing communities are subject to relatively few, if
    any, federal regulations. Instead, to the extent they are
    regulated, the regulation is conducted mainly by state and local
    laws governing licensure, provision of services, staffing
    requirements and other operational matters. These laws vary
    greatly from one jurisdiction to another. Although recent growth
    in the U.S. seniors housing industry has attracted the
    attention of various federal agencies that believe more federal
    regulation of these properties is necessary, thus far, Congress
    has deferred to state regulation of seniors housing communities.
    However, as a result of this growth and increased federal
    scrutiny, some states have revised and strengthened their
    regulation of seniors housing communities, and more states are
    expected to do the same in the future.



Certificates
    of Need



change-of-ownership

change-of-ownership



Fraud
    and Abuse



Various federal and state laws and regulations prohibit a wide
    variety of fraud and abuse by healthcare providers who
    participate in, receive payments from or make or receive
    referrals for work in connection with government-funded
    healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The
    federal laws include, by way of example, the following:



•The anti-kickback statute (Section 1128B(b) of the Social
    Security Act), which prohibits certain business practices and
    relationships, including the payment, receipt or solicitation of
    any remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce a referral
    of any patient or service or item covered by a federal health
    care program, including Medicare or a state health program, such
    as Medicaid;•The physician self-referral prohibition (Ethics in Patient
    Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the “Stark
    Law”), which prohibits referrals by physicians of Medicare
    or Medicaid patients to providers of a broad range of designated
    healthcare services with which the physicians (or their
    immediate family members) have ownership interests or certain
    other financial arrangements;•The False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly
    presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal
    government (including the Medicare and Medicaid programs);







•The Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes HHS to impose
    civil penalties administratively for fraudulent acts; and•The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
    (commonly referred to as “HIPAA”), which among other
    things, protects the privacy and security of individually
    identifiable health information by limiting its use and
    disclosure.



Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and
    civil penalties such as punitive sanctions, damage assessments,
    monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and
    Medicaid payments,and/orexclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These laws
    also impose an affirmative duty on operators to ensure that they
    do not employ or contract with persons excluded from the
    Medicare and other government programs.



Many states have adopted or are considering legislative
    proposals similar to the federal anti-fraud and abuse laws, some
    of which extend beyond the Medicare and Medicaid programs, to
    prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral
    of patients and physician self-referrals, regardless of whether
    the service was reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid. Many states
    have also adopted or are considering legislative proposals to
    increase patient protections, such as minimum staffing levels,
    criminal background checks, and limiting the use and disclosure
    of patient specific health information. These state laws also
    impose criminal and civil penalties similar to the federal laws.



In the ordinary course of their business, the operators of our
    properties have been and are subject regularly to inquiries,
    investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that
    oversee applicable laws and regulations. Increased funding
    through recent federal and state legislation has led to
    significant growth in the number of investigations and
    enforcement actions over the past several years. Private
    enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large
    part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that
    were designed to encourage private individuals to sue on behalf
    of the government. These whistleblower suits by private
    individuals, known as qui tam suits, may be filed by almost
    anyone, including present and former patients or nurses and
    other employees. HIPAA also created a series of new healthcare
    crimes.



As federal and state budget pressures continue, administrative
    agencies may continue to escalate their investigation and
    enforcement efforts to eliminate waste and to control fraud and
    abuse in governmental healthcare programs. A violation of any of
    these federal and state anti-fraud and abuse laws and
    regulations by an operator of our properties could have a
    material adverse effect on the operator’s liquidity,
    financial condition or results of operations, which could
    adversely their ability to satisfy their contractual
    obligations, including making rental payments under, and
    otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.



Healthcare
    Legislation



In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient
    Protection and Affordable Care Act, along with a reconciliation
    measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
    2010 (collectively, the “Affordable Care Act”). The
    passage of the Affordable Care Act has resulted in comprehensive
    reform legislation that is expected to expand health care
    coverage to millions of currently uninsured people beginning in
    2014. To help fund this expansion, the Affordable Care Act
    outlines certain reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates for
    various healthcare providers, including long-term acute care
    hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain
    other changes to Medicare payment methodologies.



The Affordable Care Act, among other things, reduces the
    inflationary market basket increase included in standard federal
    payment rates for long-term acute care hospitals by
    25 basis points in fiscal year 2010, 50 basis points
    in fiscal year 2011, 10 basis points in fiscal years 2012
    and 2013, 30 basis points in fiscal year 2014,
    20 basis points in fiscal years 2015 and 2016, and
    75 basis points in fiscal years 2017 through 2019. In
    addition, under the Affordable Care Act, long-term acute care
    hospitals and skilled nursing facilities will be subject to a
    rate adjustment to the market basket increase, beginning in
    fiscal year 2012, to reflect improvements in productivity.



Healthcare is one of the largest industries in the United States
    and continues to attract a great deal of legislative interest
    and public attention. We cannot assure you that previously
    enacted or future healthcare





reform legislation or changes in the administration or
    implementation of governmental and non-governmental healthcare
    reimbursement programs will not have a material adverse effect
    on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results
    of operations, or on their ability to satisfy their obligations
    to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    us.



Medicare
    Reimbursement; Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals



The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (“BBA”) mandated the
    creation of a prospective payment system for long-term acute
    care hospitals (“LTAC PPS”), which became effective on
    October 1, 2002 for cost reporting periods commencing on or
    after that date. Under LTAC PPS, which classifies patients into
    distinct diagnostic groups based on clinical characteristics and
    expected resource needs, long-term acute care hospitals are
    reimbursed on a predetermined rate, rather than on a reasonable
    cost basis that reflects costs incurred. LTAC PPS requires
    payment for a Medicare beneficiary at a predetermined, per
    discharge amount for each defined patient category (called
    “Long-Term Care — Diagnosis Related Groups”
    or “LTC-DRGs”), adjusted for differences in area wage
    levels.



Updates to LTAC PPS payment rates are established by regulators
    and published annually for the long-term acute care hospital
    rate year, which historically has been July 1 through
    June 30. However, starting with the 2010 rate year, which
    commenced October 1, 2009, annual rate updates now coincide
    with annual updates to the LTC-DRG classification system, which
    correspond to the federal fiscal year (October 1 through
    September 30).



The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (Pub. L.No. 110-173)(the “Medicare Extension Act”) significantly expanded
    medical necessity reviews by the Centers for
    Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) by
    requiring long-term acute care hospitals to institute a patient
    review process to better assess patients upon admission and on a
    continuing basis for appropriateness of care. In addition, the
    Medicare Extension Act, among other things, provided the
    following long-term acute care hospital payment policy changes,
    all of which were extended for two years by the Affordable Care
    Act:



•It prevented CMS from applying the “25-percent rule,”
    which limits payments from referring co-located hospitals, to
    freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals
    for three years;•It modified the application of the 25-percent rule to certain
    urban and rural long-term acute care
    “hospitals-within-hospitals” and “satellite”
    facilities for three years;•It prevented CMS from applying the “very short stay
    outlier” policy for three years; and•It prevented CMS from making any one-time adjustments to correct
    estimates used in implementing LTAC PPS for three years.



Lastly, the Medicare Extension Act introduced a moratorium on
    new long-term acute care hospitals and beds for three years.



On May 22, 2008, CMS published a final rule addressing two
    LTAC PPS payment policies mandated by the Medicare Extension
    Act. The rule delayed the extension of the 25-percent rule to
    freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals
    and increased the patient percentage thresholds for certain
    urban and rural long-term acute care
    “hospitals-within-hospitals” and “satellite”
    facilities for three years. The rule also set forth policies on
    implementing the moratorium on new long-term acute care
    hospitals and beds imposed by the Medicare Extension Act.



On August 27, 2009, CMS published a final rule which
    finalized policies to implement changes required by
    Section 124 of the Medicare Improvements for
    Patients & Providers Act of 2008 (Pub. L.No. 110-275).This rule continued reforms intended to improve the accuracy of
    Medicare payments for inpatient acute care through the
    severity-adjusted diagnosis-related group (MS-LTC-DRG)
    classification system for long-term acute care hospitals.



On August 16, 2010, CMS published its final rule updating
    LTAC PPS for the 2011 fiscal year (October 1, 2010 through
    September 30, 2011). Under the rule, the LTAC PPS standard
    federal payment rate in fiscal year





2011 reflects a 2.5% increase in the market basket index (before
    taking into account the 50 basis point reduction required
    by the Affordable Care Act), less a 2.5% adjustment to account
    for an increase in case-mix in fiscal year 2008 and 2009 that
    CMS attributes to changes in documentation and coding practices,
    rather than patient severity. CMS estimates that net payments to
    long-term acute care hospitals under the final rule would
    increase by approximately $22.3 million, or 0.5%, in fiscal
    year 2011 due to area wage adjustments, as well as increases in
    high-cost and short-stay outlier payments.



We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s
    rules on the operators of our long-term acute care hospitals,
    but we cannot assure you that the current rules or future
    updates to LTAC PPS, LTC-DRGs or Medicare reimbursement for
    long-term acute care hospitals will not materially adversely
    affect our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us. See “Risk Factors — Risks
    Arising from Our Business — Changes in the
    reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party
    payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have
    a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and
    operators” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.



Medicare
    Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities



The BBA also mandated the creation of a prospective payment
    system for skilled nursing facilities (“SNF PPS”)
    offering Part A covered services. Under SNF PPS, payment
    amounts are based upon classifications determined through
    assessments of individual Medicare patients in the skilled
    nursing facility, rather than on the facility’s reasonable
    costs. SNF PPS payments are made on a per diem basis for each
    resident and are generally intended to cover all inpatient
    services for Medicare patients, including routine nursing care,
    most capital-related costs associated with the inpatient stay,
    and ancillary services, such as respiratory therapy,
    occupational and physical therapy, speech therapy and certain
    covered drugs.



In response to widespread healthcare industry concern about the
    reductions in payments under the BBA, the federal government
    enacted the Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999
    (“BBRA”). The BBRA increased the per diem
    reimbursement rates for certain high acuity patients by 20% from
    April 1, 2000 until case mix refinements were implemented
    by CMS, as explained below. The BBRA also imposed a two-year
    moratorium on the annual cap mandated by the BBA on physical,
    occupational and speech therapy services provided to a patient
    by outpatient rehabilitation therapy providers, including
    Part B covered therapy services in nursing facilities.
    Relief from the BBA therapy caps was subsequently extended
    multiple times by Congress, but these extensions expired on
    December 31, 2009 and have not been renewed by Congress.



Pursuant to its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2006 fiscal
    year, CMS refined the resource utilization groups
    (“RUGs”) used to determine the daily payment for
    beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities by adding nine new
    payment categories. The result of this refinement, which became
    effective on January 1, 2006, was to eliminate the
    temporary add-on payments that Congress enacted as part of the
    BBRA.



Under its final rule updating LTC-DRGs for the 2007 fiscal year,
    CMS reduced reimbursement of uncollectible Medicare coinsurance
    amounts for all beneficiaries (other than beneficiaries of both
    Medicare and Medicaid) from 100% to 70% for skilled nursing
    facility cost reporting periods beginning on or after
    October 1, 2005. The rule also included various options for
    classifying and weighting patients transferred to a skilled
    nursing facility after a hospital stay less than the mean length
    of stay associated with that particular diagnosis-related group.



Under its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2010 fiscal year
    CMS recalibrated the case-mix indexes for the resource
    utilization groups (RUGs) used to determine the daily payment
    for beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities and implemented
    the RUG-IV classification model for skilled nursing facilities
    for fiscal year 2011; however, such implementation was delayed
    by the Affordable Care Act and will now occur in fiscal year
    2012.



On July 22, 2010, CMS published its notice updating SNF PPS
    for the 2011 fiscal year (October 1, 2010 through
    September 30, 2011). Under the notice, the update to the
    SNF PPS standard federal payment rate for skilled nursing
    facilities includes a 2.3% increase in the market basket index
    for the 2011 fiscal year. The notice also provides a 0.6%
    negative adjustment due to an overestimated increase in the
    market basket index for the 2009 fiscal year. CMS estimates that
    net payments to skilled nursing facilities as a result of the
    market





basket increase and the adjustment under the notice would
    increase by approximately $542 million, or 1.7%, in fiscal
    year 2011.



The notice includes other provisions, such as the introduction
    of concurrent therapy, implementation of the MDS 3.0 assessment
    tool, changes to the look-back period and modification of the
    implementation schedule for the RUG-IV classification model,
    that may additionally affect net payments to skilled nursing
    facilities.



On November 2, 2010, CMS placed on public display its final
    Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rule for the 2011 calendar year,
    which became effective on January 1, 2011. The rule set a
    $1,870 cap on physical therapy andspeech-languagepathology services and a separate $1,870 cap on occupational
    therapy services, including therapy provided in skilled nursing
    facilities, both without an exceptions process. Congress passed
    the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010
    (Pub. L. No. 111 309), which was signed into
    law on December 15, 2010, to lift the caps on therapy
    services and continue the exceptions process.



We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s
    rules on the operators of our skilled nursing facilities, but we
    cannot assure you that the current rules or future updates to
    SNF PPS, therapy services or Medicare reimbursement for skilled
    nursing facilities will not materially adversely impact our
    operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on us. See “Risk Factors — Risks Arising from Our
    Business — Changes in the reimbursement rates or
    methods of payment from third-party payors, including the
    Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse
    effect on certain of our tenants and operators” included in
    Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Medicaid
    Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities



Approximately two-thirds of all nursing home residents are
    dependent on Medicaid. Medicaid reimbursement rates, however,
    typically are less than the amounts charged by the operators of
    our skilled nursing facilities. Although the federal government
    and the states share responsibility for financing Medicaid,
    states have a wide range of discretion, within certain federal
    guidelines, to determine eligibility and reimbursement
    methodology. In addition, federal legislation limits an
    operator’s ability to withdraw from the Medicaid program by
    restricting the eviction or transfer of Medicaid residents. As
    state budget pressures continue to escalate as result of the
    financial crisis, a significant number of states have announced
    actual or potential budget shortfalls. As a result of these
    shortfalls, states are reducing Medicaid expenditures by
    implementing “freezes” or cuts in Medicaid rates paid
    to providers, including hospitals and skilled nursing
    facilities, or by restricting eligibility and benefits.



In the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (Pub. L. No. 109 171),
    Congress made changes to the Medicaid program that were
    estimated to result in $10 billion in savings to the
    federal government over the five years following enactment of
    the legislation, primarily through the accounting practices some
    states use to calculate their matched payments and revising the
    qualifications for individuals who are eligible for Medicaid
    benefits. The changes made by CMS’s final rule updating SNF
    PPS for the 2006 federal fiscal year were also anticipated to
    reduce Medicaid payments to skilled nursing facility operators.
    In addition, as part of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of
    2006 (Pub. L.No. 109-432),Congress reduced the ceiling on taxes that states may impose on
    healthcare providers and which would qualify for federal
    financial participation under Medicaid by 0.5%, from 6% to 5.5%.
    Nationally, it was anticipated that this reduction would have a
    negligible effect, impacting only those states with taxes in
    excess of 5.5%. The ceiling is scheduled to revert back to 6% on
    October 1, 2011. We have not ascertained the impact of this
    reduction on our skilled nursing facility operators.



The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L.No. 111-5)(the “Recovery Act”), which was signed into law on
    February 17, 2009, provides additional funding for health
    care improvement, expansion and research, as well as Medicaid
    relief to the states. The Recovery Act temporarily increased
    federal payments to state Medicaid programs by
    $86.6 billion through, among other things, a 6.2% increase
    in the federal share of Medicaid expenditures across the board,
    with additional funds available depending on a state’s
    federal medical assistance percentage and unemployment rate.
    Though the Medicaid federal assistance payments were originally
    expected to expire on December 31, 2010, the
    President’s fiscal year 2011 budget submitted to Congress
    in February 2010 proposed, and Congress approved in August 2010,
    a six-month extension of those payments through June 30,
    2011. The Recovery Act also requires states to promptly pay





nursing facilities under their Medicaid program, and precludes
    states, as a condition of receiving the additional funding, from
    heightening their Medicaid eligibility requirements.



As state reimbursement methodologies continue to evolve, at this
    time we expect significant Medicaid rate freezes or cuts or
    other program changes to be adopted by many states. In addition,
    the U.S. government may revoke, reduce or stop approving
    “provider taxes” that have the effect of increasing
    Medicaid payments to the states. We cannot predict the impact of
    such actions on our operators and we cannot assure you that
    payments under Medicaid are currently, or will be in the future,
    sufficient to fully reimburse our operators for the cost of
    providing skilled nursing services. Severe and widespread
    Medicaid rate cuts or freezes could have a material adverse
    effect on our skilled nursing facility operators, which, in
    turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Environmental
    Regulation



clean-up

Form 10-K.



Under the terms of our lease and management agreements, we
    generally have a right to indemnification by the current
    operators and managers of our properties for contamination
    caused by them. For example, the Kindred Master Leases provide
    that Kindred will indemnify us against any environmental claims
    (including penalties andclean-upcosts) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or
    relating to, the leased properties at any time on or after the
    applicable lease commencement date and from any condition
    permitted to deteriorate on or after such date (including as a
    result of migration from adjacent properties not owned or
    operated by us or any of our affiliates other than Kindred and
    its direct affiliates). However, we cannot assure you that our
    operators and managers will have the financial capability or
    willingness to satisfy their respective indemnification
    obligations to us, and any such inability or unwillingness to do
    so may require us to satisfy the underlying environmental
    claims. See “Risk Factors — Risks Arising from
    Our Business — We depend on Kindred and Brookdale
    Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and
    operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or
    Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its
    agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



In general, we have also agreed to indemnify our tenants against
    any environmental claims (including penalties andclean-upcosts) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or
    relating to, the leased properties at any time before the
    applicable lease commencement date. With respect to our
    Sunrise-managed properties, we have agreed to indemnify Sunrise
    against any environmental claims (including penalties andclean-upcosts) resulting from any condition on those properties, unless
    Sunrise caused or contributed to that condition.



We did not make any material capital expenditures in connection
    with environmental, health, and safety laws, ordinances and
    regulations in 2010 and do not expect that we will have to make
    any such material capital expenditures during 2011.





CERTAIN
    U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS



The following discussion summarizes certain U.S. federal
    income tax considerations that you may deem relevant as a holder
    of our common stock. It is not tax advice, nor does it purport
    to address all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that
    may be important to particular stockholders in light of their
    personal circumstances or to certain types of stockholders that
    may be subject to special rules, such as insurance companies,
    tax-exempt organizations (except to the extent discussed below
    under “— Treatment of Tax-Exempt
    Stockholders”), financial institutions, pass-through
    entities (or investors in such entities) or broker-dealers, andnon-U.S. personsand foreign corporations (except to the extent discussed below
    under “— Special Tax Considerations forNon-U.S. Stockholders”).



The statements in this section are based on the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”),
    U.S. Treasury Regulations and administrative and judicial
    interpretations thereof. The laws governing the
    U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and their
    stockholders are highly technical and complex, and this
    discussion is qualified in its entirety by the authorities
    listed above, as in effect on the date hereof. We cannot assure
    you that new laws, interpretations of law or court decisions,
    any of which may take effect retroactively, will not cause any
    statement herein to be inaccurate.



Federal
    Income Taxation of Ventas



We elected REIT status beginning with the year ended
    December 31, 1999. Beginning with the 1999 tax year, we
    believe that we have satisfied the requirements to qualify as a
    REIT, and we intend to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal
    income tax purposes. If we continue to qualify for taxation as a
    REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on
    net income that we currently distribute to stockholders. This
    treatment substantially eliminates the “double
    taxation” (i.e., taxation at both the corporate and
    stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a
    corporation.



Notwithstanding such qualification, we will be subject to
    federal income tax on any undistributed taxable income,
    including undistributed net capital gains, at regular corporate
    rates. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax if we
    do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements. See
    “— Requirements for Qualification as a
    REIT — Annual Distribution Requirements.” Under
    certain circumstances, we may be subject to the
    “alternative minimum tax” on our undistributed items
    of tax preference. If we have net income from the sale or other
    disposition of “foreclosure property” (see below) held
    primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of
    business or certain other non-qualifying income from foreclosure
    property, we will be subject to tax at the highest corporate
    rate on that income. See “— Requirements for
    Qualification as a REIT — Asset Tests.” In
    addition, if we have net income from “prohibited
    transactions” (which are, in general, certain sales or
    other dispositions of property (other than foreclosure property)
    held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of
    business), that income will be subject to a 100% tax.



We may also be subject to “Built-in Gains Tax” on any
    appreciated asset that we own or acquire that was previously
    owned by a C corporation (i.e., a corporation generally subject
    to full corporate-level tax). If we dispose of any such asset
    and recognize gain on the disposition during the ten-year period
    immediately after the asset was owned by a C corporation (either
    prior to our REIT election, or through stock acquisition or
    merger), then we generally will be subject to regular corporate
    income tax on the gain equal to the lesser of the recognized
    gain at the time of disposition or the built-in gain in that
    asset as of the date it became a REIT asset. Effective
    January 1, 2009, our Kindred assets were no longer subject
    to Built-in Gains Tax. The 21 Brookdale assets we acquired in
    connection with our Provident acquisition will remain subject to
    Built-in Gains Tax until November 2014.



In addition, if we fail to satisfy either of the gross income
    tests for qualification as a REIT (as discussed below), but
    still maintain such qualification under the relief provisions of
    the Code, we will be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income
    attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable
    test, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our
    profitability. If we violate one or more of the REIT asset tests
    (as discussed below), we may avoid a loss of our REIT status if
    we qualify under certain relief provisions and, among other
    things, pay a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest
    corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the
    non-qualifying asset during a specified period. If we fail to
    satisfy any requirement for REIT





qualification, other than the gross income or assets tests
    mentioned above, but nonetheless maintain such qualification by
    meeting certain other requirements, we may be subject to a
    $50,000 penalty for each failure. Finally, we will incur a 100%
    excise tax on certain transactions with a taxable REIT
    subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis.



See “— Requirements for Qualification as a
    REIT” below for other circumstances in which we may be
    required to pay federal taxes.



Requirements
    for Qualification as a REIT



To qualify as a REIT, we must meet the requirements discussed
    below relating to our organization, sources of income, nature of
    assets and distributions of income to stockholders.



Organizational
    Requirements



The Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association:
    (i) that is managed by one or more directors or trustees;
    (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by
    transferable shares or by transferable certificates of
    beneficial interest; (iii) that would be taxable as a
    domestic corporation but for Sections 856 through 859 of
    the Code; (iv) that is neither a financial institution nor
    an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code;
    (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or
    more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of
    twelve months, or during a proportionate part of a shorter
    taxable year (the “100 Shareholder Rule”);
    (vi) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of
    which is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer
    individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities)
    during the last half of each taxable year (the “5/50
    Rule”); (vii) that makes an election to be a REIT (or
    has made such election for a previous taxable year) and
    satisfies all relevant filing and other administrative
    requirements established by the Internal Revenue Service
    (“IRS”) that must be met in order to elect and to
    maintain REIT status; (viii) that uses a calendar year for
    federal income tax purposes; and (ix) that meets certain
    other tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income
    and assets.



We believe but cannot assure you that we have satisfied and will
    continue to satisfy the organizational requirements for
    qualification as a REIT. Our certificate of incorporation
    contains certain restrictions on the transfer of our shares that
    are intended to prevent a concentration of ownership of our
    stock that would cause us to fail the5/50Rule or the 100 Shareholder Rule; however, we cannot assure
    you that these restrictions will actually prevent such
    concentration or our failure to qualify as a REIT.



In addition, to qualify as a REIT, a corporation may not have
    (as of the end of the taxable year) any earnings and profits
    that were accumulated in periods before it elected REIT status.
    We believe that we have not had any accumulated earnings and
    profits that are attributable to non-REIT periods, although the
    IRS is entitled to challenge that determination.



Gross
    Income Tests



We must satisfy two annual gross income requirements to qualify
    as a REIT:



•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must consist of
    defined types of income derived directly or indirectly from
    investments relating to real property or mortgages on real
    property (including pledges of equity interest in certain
    entities holding real property and also including “rents
    from real property” (as defined in the Code)) and, in
    certain circumstances, interest on certain types of temporary
    investment income; and•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must be derived
    from such real property or temporary investments, dividends,
    interest and gain from the sale or disposition of stock or
    securities, or from any combination of the foregoing.



We believe but cannot assure you that we have been and will
    continue to be in compliance with the gross income tests
    described above. If we fail to satisfy one or both gross income
    tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a
    REIT for that year if we qualify under certain relief provisions
    of the Code, in which





case we would be subject to a 100% tax on the income exceeding
    one or both of the gross income tests. If we fail to satisfy one
    or both of the gross income tests and do not qualify under the
    relief provisions for any taxable year, we will not qualify as a
    REIT for that year, which would have a Material Adverse Effect
    on us.



Asset
    Tests



At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must
    satisfy the following tests relating to the nature of our assets:



•At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be
    represented by cash or cash items (including certain
    receivables), government securities, “real estate
    assets” (including interest in real property and in
    mortgages on real property and shares in other qualifying REITs)
    or, in cases where we raise new capital through stock or
    long-term (maturity of at least five years) debt offerings,
    temporary investments in stock or debt instruments during the
    one-year period following our receipt of such capital (the
    “75% asset test”); and•Of the investments not meeting the requirements of the 75% asset
    test, the value of any one issuer’s debt and equity
    securities owned by us (other than our interest in any entity
    classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the
    stock of a taxable REIT subsidiary or the stock of a qualified
    REIT subsidiary) may not exceed 5% of the value of our total
    assets (the “5% asset test”), and we may not own more
    than 10% of any one issuer’s outstanding voting securities
    (the “10% voting securities test”) or 10% of the value
    of any one issuer’s outstanding securities, subject to
    limited “safe harbor” exceptions (the “10% value
    test”).



In addition, no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be
    represented by securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries (the
    “25% TRS test”).



We believe but cannot assure you that we have been and will
    continue to be in compliance with the asset tests described
    above. If we fail to satisfy the asset tests at the end of our
    second, third or fourth calendar quarter, we may nevertheless
    continue to qualify as a REIT if we satisfied all of the asset
    tests at the close of the preceding calendar quarter and the
    discrepancy between the value of our assets and the asset test
    requirements is due to changes in the market values of our
    assets and not in any part caused by an acquisition of
    non-qualifying assets.







Foreclosure
    Property



The foreclosure property rules permit us (by our election) to
    foreclose or repossess properties without being disqualified as
    a REIT as a result of receiving income that does not qualify
    under the gross income tests. However, in that case, we would be
    subject to a corporate tax on the net non-qualifying income from
    “foreclosure property,” and the after-tax amount would
    increase the dividends we would be required to distribute to
    stockholders. See “— Annual Distribution
    Requirements” below.



Foreclosure property treatment will end on the first day on
    which we enter into a lease of the applicable property that will
    give rise to income that does not constitute “good
    REIT” income under Section 856(c)(3) of the Code. In
    addition, foreclosure property treatment will end if any
    construction takes place on the property (other than completion
    of a building or other improvement more than 10% complete before
    default became imminent). Foreclosure property treatment (other
    than for qualified healthcare property) is available for an
    initial period of three years and may, in certain circumstances,
    be extended for an additional three years. Foreclosure property
    treatment for qualified healthcare property is available for an
    initial period of two years and may, in certain circumstances,
    be extended for an additional four years.



Taxable
    REIT Subsidiaries



A taxable REIT subsidiary, or “TRS,” is a corporation
    subject to tax as a regular C corporation. Generally, a TRS can
    own assets that cannot be owned by a REIT and can perform tenant
    services (excluding the direct or indirect operation or
    management of a lodging or healthcare facility) that would
    otherwise disqualify the REIT’s rental income under the
    gross income tests. We are permitted to own up to 100% of a TRS,
    subject to the 25% TRS test, but there are certain limits on the
    ability of a TRS to deduct interest payments made to us. In
    addition, we are subject to a 100% penalty tax on any excess
    payments that we receive or any excess expenses deducted by the
    TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the
    REIT’s tenants and the TRS are not comparable to similar
    arrangements among unrelated parties.



Annual
    Distribution Requirements





We believe but cannot assure you that we have satisfied the
    annual distribution requirements for the year of our initial
    REIT election and each year thereafter through the year ended
    December 31, 2010. Although we intend to satisfy the annual
    distribution requirements to continue to qualify as a REIT for
    the year ending





December 31, 2011 and subsequent years, economic, market,
    legal, tax or other considerations could limit our ability to
    meet those requirements.



In Revenue Procedure2010-12,the
    IRS stated that it would treat stock dividends as distributions
    for purposes of satisfying the REIT distribution requirements
    for calendar years 2008 through 2012, provided that stockholders
    can elect to receive the distribution in either cash or stock,
    subject to certain limitations. Any stock so distributed would
    be taxable to the recipient. We may choose to declare stock
    dividends in accordance with Revenue Procedure2010-12or
    otherwise. We also have net operating loss carryforwards that we
    can use to reduce our annual distribution requirements. See
    “Note 12 — Income Taxes” of the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Failure
    to Continue to Qualify



If we fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT
    qualification, other than by violating a gross income or asset
    test for which relief is otherwise available as described above,
    we would retain our REIT qualification if the failure is due to
    reasonable cause and not willful neglect and if we pay a penalty
    of $50,000 for each such failure. We cannot predict, however,
    whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit
    of this relief provision.



If our election to be taxed as a REIT is revoked or terminated
    (e.g., due to a failure to meet the REIT qualification tests
    without qualifying for any applicable relief provisions), we
    would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative
    minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates
    (for all open tax years beginning with the year our REIT
    election is revoked or terminated), except to the extent of our
    net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards, and
    distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us, nor
    would they be required to be made. To the extent of current and
    accumulated earnings and profits, all distributions to
    stockholders would be taxable as ordinary income, and, subject
    to certain limitations in the Code, corporate stockholders may
    be eligible for the dividends received deduction. In addition,
    we would be prohibited from re-electing REIT status for the four
    taxable years following the year during which we ceased to
    qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions of the Code
    applied. We cannot predict, however, whether we would be
    entitled to such relief.



Federal
    Income Taxation of U.S. Stockholders



As used herein, the term “U.S. Stockholder”
    refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes, an individual who is a
    citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation created
    or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any
    state thereof or the District of Columbia, an estate the income
    of which is includible in gross income for U.S. federal
    income tax purposes regardless of its source, or a trust if
    (i) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary
    supervision over the administration of such trust or
    (ii) the trust has elected under applicable
    U.S. Treasury Regulations to retain its pre-August 20,
    1996 classification as a U.S. person. If an entity treated
    as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds
    our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner in the
    partnership will generally depend on the status of the partner
    and the activities of the partnership. Partners of partnerships
    holding our stock should consult their tax advisors. This
    section assumes the U.S. Stockholder holds our common stock
    as a capital asset.



As long as we qualify as a REIT, distributions made to our
    taxable U.S. Stockholders out of current or accumulated
    earnings and profits (and not designated as capital gain
    dividends) generally will be taxable to such
    U.S. Stockholders as ordinary income and will not be
    eligible for the qualified dividends rate generally available to
    non-corporate holders or for the dividends received deduction
    generally available to corporations. Distributions that are
    designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as a capital
    gain (to the extent such distributions do not exceed our actual
    net capital gain for the taxable year) without regard to the
    period for which the stockholder has held its shares.
    Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and
    profits will not be taxable to a U.S. Stockholder to the
    extent they do not exceed the adjusted basis of the
    stockholder’s shares (determined on ashare-by-sharebasis), but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of those
    shares. To the extent that distributions in excess of current
    and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the





adjusted basis of a stockholder’s shares, such
    distributions will be included in income as capital gains. The
    tax rate applicable to such capital gains will depend on the
    stockholder’s holding period for the shares. Any
    distribution declared by us and payable to a stockholder of
    record on a specified date in October, November or December of
    any year will be treated as both paid by us and received by the
    stockholder on December 31 of that year, provided that we
    actually pay the distribution during January of the following
    calendar year.



We may elect to treat all or a part of our undistributed net
    capital gain as if it had been distributed to our stockholders
    (including for purposes of the 4% excise tax discussed above
    under “— Requirements for Qualification as a
    REIT — Annual Distribution Requirements”). If we
    make such an election, our stockholders would be required to
    include in their income as long-term capital gain their
    proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain, as
    designated by us. Each such stockholder would be deemed to have
    paid its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us
    with respect to such undistributed net capital gain, and this
    amount would be credited or refunded to the stockholder. In
    addition, the tax basis of the stockholder’s shares would
    be increased by its proportionate share of undistributed net
    capital gains included in its income, less its proportionate
    share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such gains.



Stockholders may not include in their individual income tax
    returns any of our net operating losses or net capital losses.
    Instead, we would carry over those losses for potential offset
    against our future income, subject to certain limitations.
    Taxable distributions from us and gain from the disposition of
    our common stock will not be treated as passive activity income,
    and, therefore, stockholders generally will not be able to apply
    any “passive activity losses” (such as losses from
    certain types of limited partnerships in which the stockholder
    is a limited partner) against such income. In addition, taxable
    distributions from us generally will be treated as investment
    income for purposes of the investment interest limitations.



We will notify stockholders after the close of our taxable year
    as to the portions of the distributions attributable to that
    year that constitute ordinary income, return of capital and
    capital gain. To the extent a portion of the distribution is
    designated as a capital gain dividend, we will notify
    stockholders as to the portion that is a “15% rate gain
    distribution” and the portion that is an unrecaptured
    Section 1250 distribution. A 15% rate gain distribution is
    a capital gain distribution to domestic stockholders that are
    individuals, estates or trusts that is taxable at a maximum rate
    of 15%. An unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution
    would be taxable to taxable domestic stockholders that are
    individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%.



Taxation
    of U.S. Stockholders on the Disposition of Shares of Common
    Stock



In general, a U.S. Stockholder who is not a dealer in
    securities must treat any gain or loss realized upon a taxable
    disposition of our common stock as long-term capital gain or
    loss if the stockholder has held the shares for more than one
    year, and otherwise as short-term capital gain or loss. However,
    a U.S. Stockholder must treat any loss upon a sale or
    exchange of shares of our common stock held for six months or
    less as a long-term capital loss to the extent of capital gain
    dividends and any other actual or deemed distributions from us
    which the stockholder treats as long-term capital gain. All or a
    portion of any loss that a U.S. Stockholder realizes upon a
    taxable disposition of our common stock may be disallowed if the
    stockholder purchases other shares of our common stock within
    30 days before or after the disposition.



Treatment
    of Tax-Exempt Stockholders



Tax-exempt organizations, including qualified employee pension
    and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts
    (collectively, “Exempt Organizations”), generally are
    exempt from U.S. federal income taxation. However, they are
    subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income
    (“UBTI”). While many investments in real estate
    generate UBTI, the IRS has issued a published ruling that
    dividend distributions by a REIT to an exempt employee pension
    trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares of the
    REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of
    the exempt employee pension trust. Based on that ruling, and
    subject to the exceptions discussed below, amounts distributed
    by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute
    UBTI. However, if an Exempt Organization finances its
    acquisition of our common stock with debt, a portion of its
    income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the
    “debt-financed property” rules. Furthermore, social
    clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations,





supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group
    legal services plans that are exempt from taxation under
    paragraphs (7), (9), (17) and (20), respectively, of
    Section 501(c) of the Code are subject to different UBTI
    rules, which generally require them to characterize
    distributions from us as UBTI. In addition, in certain
    circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our
    stock is required to treat a percentage of the dividends from us
    as UBTI.



Special
    Tax Considerations forNon-U.S.Stockholders



As used herein, the term“Non-U.S. Stockholder”refers to nonresident alien individuals, foreign corporations,
    foreign estates and foreign trusts, but does not include any
    foreign stockholder whose investment in our stock is
    “effectively connected” with the conduct of a trade or
    business in the United States. Such a foreign stockholder, in
    general, will be subject to U.S. federal income tax with
    respect to its investment in our stock in the same manner as a
    U.S. Stockholder (subject to applicable alternative minimum
    tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of
    nonresident alien individuals). In addition, a foreign
    corporation receiving income that is treated as effectively
    connected with a U.S. trade or business also may be subject
    to an additional 30% “branch profits tax,” unless an
    applicable tax treaty provides a lower rate or an exemption.
    Certain certification requirements must be satisfied in order
    for effectively connected income to be exempt from withholding.



Distributions toNon-U.S. Stockholdersthat are not attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us
    of U.S. real property interests and are not designated by
    us as capital gain dividends (or deemed distributions of
    retained capital gains) will be treated as dividends of ordinary
    income to the extent that they are made out of our current or
    accumulated earnings and profits. Such distributions ordinarily
    will be subject to a withholding tax equal to 30% of the gross
    amount of the distribution unless an applicable tax treaty
    reduces or eliminates that tax. Distributions in excess of our
    current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable
    to aNon-U.S. Stockholderto the extent that such distributions do not exceed the adjusted
    basis of the stockholder’s shares (determined on ashare-by-sharebasis), but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of those
    shares. To the extent that distributions in excess of current
    and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the adjusted basis
    of aNon-U.S. Stockholder’sshares, such distributions will give rise to tax liability if
    theNon-U.S. Stockholderwould otherwise be subject to tax on any gain from the sale or
    disposition of its shares, as described below.



We expect to withhold U.S. tax at the rate of 30% on the
    gross amount of any dividends, other than dividends treated as
    attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real
    property interests and capital gain dividends, paid to aNon-U.S. Stockholder,unless (i) a lower treaty rate applies and the required IRSForm W-8BENevidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is filed with us or
    the appropriate withholding agent or (ii) theNon-U.S. Stockholderfiles an IRSForm W-8ECIor a successor form with us or the appropriate withholding agent
    properly claiming that the distributions are effectively
    connected with theNon-U.S. Stockholder’sconduct of a U.S. trade or business.



Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder’s





gain on the sale or exchange of U.S. real property
    interests are not subject to U.S. taxation if there is no
    withholding requirement.



Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder

Non-U.S. Stockholder”

Non-U.S. Stockholder



In general, the sale or other taxable disposition of our common
    stock by a Five PercentNon-U.S. Stockholderalso will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax if we
    are a “domestically controlled REIT.” A REIT is a
    “domestically controlled REIT” if, at all times during
    the five-year period preceding the disposition in question, less
    than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly
    byNon-U.S. Stockholders.Although we believe that we currently qualify as a domestically
    controlled REIT, because our common stock is publicly traded, we
    cannot assure you that we currently qualify or will qualify as a
    domestically controlled REIT at any time in the future. If we do
    not constitute a domestically controlled REIT, a Five PercentNon-U.S. Stockholderwill be taxed in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder with
    respect to gain on the sale of our common stock (subject to
    applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative
    minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals).



Information
    Reporting Requirements and Backup Withholding Tax



Information returns may be filed with the IRS and backup
    withholding tax may be collected in connection with
    distributions paid or required to be treated as paid during each
    calendar year and payments of the proceeds of a sale or other
    disposition of our common stock. Under the backup withholding
    rules, a stockholder may be subject to backup withholding at the
    applicable rate (currently 28% and scheduled to increase to 31%
    in 2011) with respect to distributions paid and proceeds
    from a disposition of our common stock unless such holder is a
    corporation,non-U.S. personor comes within certain other exempt categories and, when
    required, demonstrates this fact or provides a taxpayer
    identification number, certifies as to no loss of exemption from
    backup withholding and otherwise complies with the applicable
    requirements of the backup withholding rules. A stockholder who
    does not provide us with its correct taxpayer identification
    number also may be subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.



Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the
    U.S. federal income tax liability of persons subject to
    backup withholding tax will be offset by the amount of tax
    withheld. If backup withholding tax results in an overpayment of
    U.S. federal income taxes, a refund or credit may be
    obtained from the IRS, provided the required information is
    furnished timely thereto.



As a general matter, backup withholding and information
    reporting will not apply to a payment of the proceeds of a sale
    of our common stock by or through a foreign office of a foreign
    broker. Information reporting (but not backup withholding) will
    apply, however, to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our
    common stock by a foreign office of a broker that is a
    U.S. person, a foreign partnership that derives 50% or more
    of its gross income for certain periods from the conduct of a
    trade or business in the United States, or more than 50% of
    whose capital or profit interests are owned during certain
    periods by U.S. persons, or a “controlled foreign
    corporation” for U.S. tax purposes, unless the broker
    has documentary evidence in its records that the holder is aNon-U.S. Stockholderand certain other conditions are satisfied, or the stockholder





otherwise establishes an exemption. Payment to or through a
    U.S. office of a broker of the proceeds of a sale of our
    common stock is subject to both backup withholding and
    information reporting unless the stockholder certifies under
    penalties of perjury that the stockholder is aNon-U.S. Stockholderor otherwise establishes an exemption. A stockholder may obtain
    a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding
    rules in excess of its U.S. federal income tax liability by
    timely filing the appropriate claim for a refund with the IRS.



Other Tax
    Consequences



State
    and Local Taxes



Weand/orour stockholders may be subject to taxation by various states
    and localities, including those in which we or a stockholder
    transact business, own property or reside. State and local tax
    treatment may differ from the federal income tax treatment
    described above. Consequently, stockholders should consult their
    own tax advisers regarding the effect of state and local tax
    laws, in addition to federal, foreign and other tax laws, in
    connection with an investment in our common stock.



Possible
    Legislative or Other Actions Affecting Tax
    Consequences



You should recognize that future legislative, judicial and
    administrative actions or decisions, which may be retroactive in
    effect, could adversely affect our federal income tax treatment
    or the tax consequences of an investment in shares of our common
    stock. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation
    are constantly under review by persons involved in the
    legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury
    Department, resulting in statutory changes as well as
    promulgation of new, or revisions to existing, regulations and
    revised interpretations of established concepts.



We cannot predict the likelihood of passage of any new tax
    legislation or other provisions either directly or indirectly
    affecting us or our stockholders or the value of an investment
    in our common stock.



