ITEM 1.Business

BUSINESS

Overview

We are a REIT with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and Canada. As of December 31, 2009, this portfolio consisted of 505 assets:
244 seniors housing communities, 187 skilled nursing facilities, 40 hospitals and 34 medical office buildings (“MOBs”) and other properties in 43 states and two Canadian provinces. With the exception of our seniors housing communities that
are managed by Sunrise pursuant to long-term management agreements and the majority of our MOBs, we lease our properties to healthcare operating companies under “triple-net” or “absolute-net” leases, which require the tenants to
pay all property-related expenses. We also had real estate loan investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare companies or properties as of December 31, 2009.

We conduct substantially all of our business through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership (“Ventas
Realty”), PSLT OP, L.P. and Ventas SSL, Inc. Our primary business consists of acquiring, financing and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties and leasing those properties to third parties or operating those properties through
independent third party managers.

We were incorporated in Kentucky in 1983, commenced operations in 1985 and reorganized as a
Delaware corporation in 1987. We operate through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, including “Note 2—Accounting
Policies,” included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our business strategy is comprised of
three principal objectives: (1) portfolio diversification; (2) stable earnings and growth; and (3) maintaining a strong balance sheet and liquidity.

Portfolio of Properties and Other Real Estate Investments

As of
December 31, 2009, we had a 100% ownership interest in 439 of our properties. We had 75% to 85% interests in 60 seniors housing communities owned in joint ventures with Sunrise, and we had controlling interests in six MOBs owned through joint
ventures with partners who provide management and leasing services for the properties.







Index to Financial Statements

The following table provides an overview of our portfolio of properties and other real
estate investments as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009:



Portfolio by Type# ofProperties# ofBeds/UnitsRevenuePercentof TotalRevenuesReal EstateInvestments,at Cost (1)Percent ofReal EstateInvestments (1)Real EstateInvestmentPerBed/UnitNumber ofLocations (2)(Dollars in thousands)Seniors Housing and Healthcare PropertiesSeniors housing communities24423,242$615,78465.8%$4,760,27875.6%$204.836Skilled nursing facilities18722,377176,07118.8809,12112.936.229Hospitals403,51793,56410.0345,1725.598.117MOBs (3)26—35,9223.8373,5175.9nm11Other properties81229810.17,1330.158.51Total seniors housing and healthcare properties50549,258922,32298.5%$6,295,221100.0%45Other Real Estate InvestmentsLoans and investments13,1071.4$935,42999.9%(4)



nm—not meaningful.



(1)Includes assets held for sale at December 31, 2009.

(2)As of December 31, 2009, our seniors housing and healthcare properties were located in 43 states and two Canadian provinces and were operated or managed by 22
different third-party operators or managers.

(3)As of December 31, 2009, 25 of our MOBs were operated by third-party managers, and one MOB was leased under a triple-net lease.

(4)The remainder of our total revenues is interest and other income. Revenues from properties held for sale as of December 31, 2009 are included in this presentation.
Revenues from properties sold during 2009 are excluded from this presentation.

Seniors Housing and
Healthcare Properties

Seniors Housing Communities.    Our seniors housing
communities include independent and assisted living communities, and communities providing care for individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia or memory loss. These communities offer residential units on a month-to-month
basis primarily to elderly individuals requiring various levels of assistance. Basic services for residents of these communities include housekeeping, meals in a central dining area and group activities organized by the staff with input from the
residents. More extensive care and personal supervision, at additional fees, are also available for such needs as eating, bathing, grooming, transportation, limited therapeutic programs and medication administration, all of which encourage the
residents to live as independently as possible according to their abilities. These services are often met by home health providers, close coordination with the resident’s physician and skilled nursing facilities.

Skilled Nursing Facilities.Our skilled nursing facilities typically provide nursing care services to
the elderly and rehabilitation and restoration services, including physical, occupational and speech therapies, and







Index to Financial Statements

other medical treatment for patients and residents who do not require the high technology, care-intensive setting of an acute care or rehabilitation hospital.

Hospitals.    Substantially all of our hospitals are operated as long-term acute care hospitals, which are
hospitals that have a Medicare average length of stay greater than 25 days that serve medically complex, chronically ill patients who require a high level of monitoring and specialized care, but whose conditions do not necessitate the continued
services of an intensive care unit. The operator of these hospitals has the capability to treat patients who suffer from multiple systemic failures or conditions such as neurological disorders, head injuries, brain stem and spinal cord trauma,
cerebral vascular accidents, chemical brain injuries, central nervous system disorders, developmental anomalies and cardiopulmonary disorders. Chronic patients are often dependent on technology for continued life support, such as mechanical
ventilators, total parenteral nutrition, respiration or cardiac monitors and dialysis machines, and, therefore, due to their severe medical conditions, these patients generally are not clinically appropriate for admission to a nursing facility or
rehabilitation hospital. Our hospitals are freestanding facilities, and we do not own any “hospitals within hospitals.” We also own two rehabilitation hospitals devoted to the rehabilitation of patients with various neurological,
musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions following stabilization of their acute medical issues.

Medical
Office Buildings.    Our MOBs offer office space primarily to physicians and other healthcare businesses. While these properties are similar to commercial office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and
mechanical systems to accommodate multiple physicians’ offices and examination rooms that may have sinks in every room, brighter lights and specialized medical equipment. MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to multiple healthcare
providers (hospitals and physician practices). As of December 31, 2009, our MOB portfolio consisted of over 1.7 million rentable square feet.

Other Properties.    Our other properties consist of personal care facilities, which provide specialized care, including supported living services, neurorehabilitation,
neurobehavioral management and vocational programs, for persons with acquired or traumatic brain injury.

Other Real
Estate Investments

As of December 31, 2009, we had $131.9 million of net loans receivable relating to seniors
housing and healthcare companies or properties. See “Note 6—Loans Receivable” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







Index to Financial Statements

Geographic Diversification

Our portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties is broadly diversified by geographic location in the United States and Canada,
with properties in only two states comprising more than 10% of our 2009 total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations from properties held for sale at December 31, 2009). The following table shows our rental income and resident
fees and services derived by geographic location for our portfolio of properties for the year ended December 31, 2009:



Rental Income andResident Fees andServicesPercent of TotalRevenues(Dollars in thousands)Geographic LocationCalifornia$118,39112.6%Illinois96,37710.3Pennsylvania52,2885.6Massachusetts49,7615.3New Jersey47,1495.0Florida37,9434.1Colorado37,1914.0Georgia34,5563.7New York33,9643.6North Carolina30,1393.2Other (33 states)310,84233.2Total U.S848,60190.6%Canada (two Canadian provinces)73,7217.9Total$922,32298.5%(1)



(1)The remainder of our total revenues is income from loans and investments and interest and other income. Revenues from properties held for sale as of December 31,
2009 are included in this presentation. Revenues from properties sold during 2009 are excluded from this presentation.

Segment Information

As of December 31, 2009, we operated through two reportable business segments:
triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. See “Note 18—Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information
about our business segments and the geographic diversification of our portfolio of properties.

Certificates of Need

A majority of our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are located in states that have certificate of need
(“CON”) requirements. A CON, which is issued by a governmental agency with jurisdiction over healthcare facilities, is at times required for expansion of existing facilities, construction of new facilities, addition of beds, acquisition of
major items of equipment or introduction of new services. The CON rules and regulations may restrict our or our operators’ ability to expand our properties in certain circumstances.







Index to Financial Statements

The following table shows the percentage of our rental income derived by skilled nursing
facilities and hospitals in states with and without CON requirements for the year ended December 31, 2009:



SkilledNursingFacilitiesHospitalsTotalStates with CON requirements73.9%48.6%65.1%States without CON requirements26.151.434.9Total100.0%100.0%100.0%

Significant Tenants, Operators and Managers

As of December 31, 2009, approximately 38.9%, 21.8% and 14.1% of our properties, based on the gross book value of real estate
investments (including assets held for sale), were managed or operated by Sunrise, Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2009 (including amounts in discontinued operations): our senior living
operations managed by Sunrise accounted for approximately 44.7% of our total revenues and 18.5% of our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”); our master lease agreements with Kindred (the “Kindred
Master Leases”) accounted for approximately 26.2% of our total revenues and 38.5% of our total net operating income (“NOI”); and our leases with Brookdale Senior Living accounted for approximately 12.9% of our total revenues and 19.1%
of our total NOI.

Sunrise has managed our senior living operations since April 2007, when we acquired the assets of Sunrise
Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust (“Sunrise REIT”). We have been party to the Kindred Master Leases since May 1998, as a result of our spin off of Kindred, pursuant to which we transferred to Kindred our previous hospital, nursing
facility and ancillary services businesses and retained substantially all of the real property that we then leased to Kindred. Our relationship with Brookdale Senior Living dates back to a lease transaction we entered into in 2004, followed by the
various lease agreements with Brookdale Senior Living to which we became a party in connection with our acquisition of Provident Senior Living Trust (“Provident”) in June 2005 and the subsequent combination of Brookdale and Alterra under
Brookdale Senior Living.

Triple-Net Leased Properties

Each of our leases with Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living is a triple-net lease pursuant to which the tenant is required to pay all taxes,
utilities and maintenance and repairs related to the properties and to maintain and pay all insurance covering the properties and their operations. In addition, the tenants are required to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents,
if any, affecting the properties.







Index to Financial Statements

Kindred Master Leases.Under each Kindred Master Lease,
the aggregate annual rent is referred to as Base Rent (as defined in the applicable Kindred Master Lease). Base Rent escalates on May 1 of each year at a specified rate over the Prior Period Base Rent (as defined in the applicable Kindred
Master Lease), contingent upon the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters. The annual rent escalator is 2.7% under Kindred Master Leases 1, 3 and 4 and is based on year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index, with a floor of
2.25% and a ceiling of 4%, under Kindred Master Lease 2. Assuming the specified revenue parameters are met, Base Rent due under the Kindred Master Leases will be approximately $248.5 million from May 1, 2010 to April 30, 2011. See
“Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The properties leased to Kindred pursuant to the Kindred Master Leases are grouped into bundles, with each bundle containing a varying
number of properties. All properties within a bundle have primary terms ranging from ten to fifteen years, commencing May 1, 1998, and, provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to three five-year renewal terms. Kindred renewed,
through April 30, 2013, its leases covering all 57 assets owned by us whose initial base term expired on April 30, 2008. Kindred has also renewed, through April 30, 2015, its leases covering all 109 assets owned by us (one of which we
subsequently sold in June 2009) whose initial base term will expire on April 30, 2010. Kindred retains two sequential renewal options for the remaining 108 assets.

Brookdale Senior Living Leases.Our leases with Brookdale have primary terms of fifteen
years, commencing either January 28, 2004 (in the case of fifteen “Grand Court” properties we acquired in 2004) or October 19, 2004 (in the case of the properties we acquired in connection with the Provident acquisition), and,
provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to two ten-year renewal terms. Our leases with Alterra also have primary terms of fifteen years, commencing either October 20, 2004 or December 16, 2004 (both in the case of properties
we acquired in connection with the Provident acquisition), and, provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to two five-year renewal terms. Brookdale Senior Living guarantees all obligations under these leases, and all of our Brookdale
Senior Living leases are cross-defaulted.

Under the terms of the Brookdale leases we assumed in connection with the Provident
acquisition, Brookdale is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates on January 1 of each year, by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately preceding year
or (ii) 3%. Under the terms of the Brookdale leases with respect to our “Grand Court” properties, Brookdale is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates on February 1 of each year, by an amount equal to the greater of
(i) 2% or (ii) 75% of the increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately preceding year. Under the terms of the Alterra leases, Alterra is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates either on January 1 or November 1
of each year by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately preceding year or (ii) 2.5%. The aggregate annual contractual cash base rent expected from Brookdale
Senior Living for 2010 is approximately $114.1 million, excluding variable







Index to Financial Statements

interest Brookdale is obligated to pay as additional rent based on certain floating rate mortgage debt assumed by us during the Provident acquisition. The aggregate annual contractual rent
(computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”)), excluding the variable interest, expected from Brookdale Senior Living for 2010 is approximately $121.5 million. See “Note 3—Concentration of
Credit Risk” and “Note 12—Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Senior Living Operations

We are party to management agreements with Sunrise pursuant to which Sunrise currently provides comprehensive accounting and property management services with respect to 79 of our seniors housing
communities. Each management agreement has a term of 30 years from its effective date, the earliest of which began in 2004. See “Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part
II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Although we have various rights as owner under the Sunrise management
agreements, we rely on Sunrise’s personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information and judgment to manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively.
We also rely on Sunrise to set resident fees and otherwise operate those properties in compliance with our management agreements. Because a significant portion of our properties are managed by Sunrise, its inability to efficiently and effectively
manage those properties and to provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, Sunrise’s inability or unwillingness to satisfy its obligations under our management
agreements, a change in Sunrise’s senior management or any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our
Business—The properties managed by Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Adverse developments in Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on
us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

We compete for real property investments with healthcare providers, other healthcare REITs, healthcare lenders, real estate partnerships,
banks, insurance companies, private equity and other investors. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to
identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives. As a result, our ability to compete successfully for real property investments is impacted by numerous factors, including the availability of suitable acquisition or
investment targets, our ability to negotiate acceptable terms for any such acquisition and the availability and cost of capital to us. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—We may encounter certain risks when implementing
our business strategy to pursue investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing and/or healthcare assets” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and “Note 8—Borrowing
Arrangements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Revenues from our properties are dependent on the ability of our operators and managers to compete with other seniors housing and healthcare operators and managers. These operators and managers compete on
a local and regional basis for residents and patients at our properties on a number of different levels. Their ability to successfully attract and retain residents and patients depends upon several factors, including the scope and quality of
services provided, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, the operational reputation of the operator or manager, physician referral patterns, physical appearance of the properties, other competitive systems of healthcare delivery
within the community, population and demographics, and the financial condition of the operator or manager. Private, federal and state reimbursement programs and the effect of other laws and regulations also may have a significant impact on our
operators’ and managers’ ability to compete successfully for residents and patients at the properties. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our tenants,







Index to Financial Statements

managers and operators may be adversely affected by increasing healthcare regulation and enforcement” and “—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from
third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2009, we had 61 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider the relationship with our employees to be good.

Insurance

We maintain and/or require in our existing leases and other
agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations. For example, under the Kindred Master Leases, Kindred is required to maintain, at its expense, certain insurance
coverage related to the properties under the Kindred Master Leases and Kindred’s operations at those properties. We believe that our tenants, operators and managers are in substantial compliance with the insurance requirements contained in
their respective leases and other agreements with us. However, we cannot assure you that Kindred or our other tenants, operators and managers will maintain such insurance, and any failure by them to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

We maintain casualty insurance for our properties managed by Sunrise, but general and professional liability insurance
covering those properties and the related operations is currently maintained by Sunrise in accordance with the standards contained in our management agreements. Pursuant to our management agreements, we may elect, on an annual basis, to opt in or
out of the Sunrise insurance program, meaning that we can choose whether we or Sunrise will bear responsibility for maintaining general and professional liability and casualty insurance for our Sunrise-managed properties in accordance with the
standards contained in the management agreements. The costs of the insurance program covering our Sunrise-managed properties are facility expenses paid from the revenues of these properties, regardless of who maintains the insurance.

We believe that the amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and the policies maintained by our tenants, operators
and managers are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. We cannot assure you that in the future such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost or that we or our tenants, operators and managers will be able to maintain
adequate levels of insurance coverage. In addition, we cannot give any assurances as to the future financial viability of our insurers or that the insurance coverage provided will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a
catastrophic event.

Due to historically high frequency and severity of professional liability claims against healthcare
providers, the availability of professional liability insurance has been restricted and the premiums for such coverage remain very high. In addition, many healthcare providers are pursuing different organizational and corporate structures coupled
with self-insurance programs that provide less insurance coverage. As a result, the tenants, operators and managers of our properties could incur large funded and unfunded professional liability expense, which could have a material adverse effect on
their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, and which, in turn, could affect adversely their ability to make rental payments under, or otherwise comply with the terms of, their leases with us or, with regard to our
Sunrise-managed properties, adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that our tenants, operators and managers will continue to carry the insurance coverage required under the terms of their leases and other agreements with us
or that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance under those leases and agreements.

Additional Information

We maintain a website at www.ventasreit.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.







Index to Financial Statements

We make available, free of charge, through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the Commission. In addition, our Guidelines on Governance, the charters for each of our Audit and Compliance, Nominating and Governance and Executive Compensation Committees and our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct are
available on our website, and we will mail copies of the foregoing documents to stockholders, free of charge, upon request to Corporate Secretary, Ventas, Inc., 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

Healthcare Regulation

Overview

Licensure and Certification

Participation in the Medicare and
Medicaid programs generally requires the operators of our skilled nursing facilities to be licensed on an annual or bi-annual basis and certified annually through various regulatory agencies which determine compliance with federal, state and local
laws. These legal requirements relate to the quality of the nursing care provided, qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment and continuing compliance with the laws and
regulations governing the operation of skilled nursing facilities. The failure of an operator to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval or to correct serious deficiencies identified in compliance surveys could prevent it from
continuing operations at a property. A loss of licensure or certification could also adversely affect a skilled nursing facility operator’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could affect
adversely their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.

Similarly, in order to receive Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, our hospitals must meet the applicable conditions of participation set forth by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(“HHS”) relating to the type of hospital and its equipment, personnel and standard of medical care, as well as comply with state and local laws and regulations. Hospitals undergo periodic on-site licensure surveys, which generally are
limited if the hospital is accredited by The Joint Commission (formerly the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) or other recognized accreditation organizations. A loss of licensure or certification could adversely affect a
hospital’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which,







Index to Financial Statements

in turn, could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.

Seniors housing communities are subject to relatively few, if any, federal regulations. Instead, to the extent they are
regulated, the regulation is conducted mainly by state and local laws governing licensure, provision of services, staffing requirements and other operational matters. These laws vary greatly from one jurisdiction to another. Although recent growth
in the U.S. seniors housing industry has attracted the attention of various federal agencies which believe there should be more federal regulation of these properties, thus far, Congress has deferred to state regulation of seniors housing
communities. However, as a result of this growth and increased federal scrutiny, some states have revised and strengthened their regulation of seniors housing communities, and more are expected to do the same in the future.

Certificates of Need

Fraud and Abuse

Various federal and state laws and regulations prohibit a wide variety of fraud and abuse by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or make or receive referrals for work in
connection with government-funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The federal laws include, by way of example, the following:



•The anti-kickback statute (Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act), which prohibits certain business practices and relationships, including the
payment, receipt or solicitation of any remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce a referral of any patient or service or item covered by a federal health care program, including Medicare or a state health program, such as Medicaid;



•The physician self-referral prohibition (Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the “Stark Law”), which prohibits
referrals by physicians of Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of a broad range of designated healthcare services with which the physicians (or their immediate family members) have ownership interests or certain other financial arrangements;



•The False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government (including
the Medicare and Medicaid programs);



•The Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes HHS to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent acts; and



•The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (commonly referred to as “HIPAA”), which among other things, protects the
privacy and security of individually identifiable health information by limiting its use and disclosure.







Index to Financial Statements

Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and civil penalties that range
from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments, and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These laws also impose an affirmative duty on operators to ensure that
they do not employ or contract with persons excluded from the Medicare and other government programs.

Many states have
adopted or are considering legislative proposals similar to the federal anti-fraud and abuse laws, some of which extend beyond the Medicare and Medicaid programs to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and
physician self-referrals, regardless of whether the service was reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid. Many states have also adopted or are considering legislative proposals to increase patient protections, such as minimum staffing levels, criminal
background checks, and limiting the use and disclosure of patient specific health information. These state laws also impose criminal and civil penalties similar to the federal laws.

In the ordinary course of their business, the operators of our properties have been and are subject regularly to inquiries, investigations
and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations. Increased funding through recent federal and state legislation has led to significant growth in the number of investigations and enforcement actions over the past
several years. Private enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that were designed to encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These
whistleblower suits by private individuals, known as qui tam suits, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former patients or nurses and other employees. HIPAA also created a series of new healthcare crimes.

As federal and state budget pressures continue, administrative agencies may continue to escalate their investigation and enforcement efforts
to eliminate waste and to control fraud and abuse in governmental healthcare programs. A violation of any of these federal and state anti-fraud and abuse laws and regulations by an operator of our properties could have a material adverse effect on
the operator’s liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms of, their
leases with us.

Healthcare Legislation

There are currently pending various comprehensive reform initiatives that could transform the healthcare system in the United States. The
U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate have each passed differing reform bills that address a number of issues, including healthcare cost-saving measures. Many of the proposals could or would affect both public and private healthcare
programs and could adversely affect Medicare payments to skilled nursing facilities and long-term acute care hospitals, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Future healthcare reform or legislation or changes in the
administration or implementation of governmental and non-governmental healthcare reimbursement programs also could have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely
affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

The
President’s Budget, released on February 2, 2010, assumed that health care reform legislation pending before Congress would be passed and, therefore, did not directly propose certain adjustments to Medicaid, Medicare and Medicare Advantage
Plans, which may or may not affect the operating income of the operators of our healthcare properties. The impact of these adjustments or lack thereof, if any, has not been determined.

Healthcare is one of the largest industries in the United States and continues to attract a great deal of legislative interest and public
attention. We cannot assure you that future healthcare legislation or changes in the administration or implementation of governmental healthcare reimbursement programs will not have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity,
financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.







Index to Financial Statements

Medicare Reimbursement; Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals

The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (“BBA”) mandated the creation of a prospective payment system for long-term acute care hospitals
(“LTAC PPS”), which became effective on October 1, 2002 for cost reporting periods commencing on or after that date. Under LTAC PPS, which classifies patients into distinct diagnostic groups based on clinical characteristics and
expected resource needs, long-term acute care hospitals are reimbursed on a predetermined rate, rather than on a reasonable cost basis that reflects costs incurred. LTAC PPS requires payment for a Medicare beneficiary at a predetermined, per
discharge amount for each defined patient category (called “Long-Term Care—Diagnosis Related Groups” or “LTC-DRGs”), adjusted for differences in area wage levels.

Updates to LTAC PPS payment rates are established by regulators and published annually for the long-term acute care hospital rate year,
which historically has been July 1 through June 30. However, starting with the 2010 rate year, which commenced October 1, 2009, annual rate updates now coincide with annual updates to the LTC-DRG classification system, which
correspond to the federal fiscal year (October 1 through September 30).

The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension
Act of 2007 (Pub. L. No. 110-173) (the “Medicare Extension Act”) significantly expanded medical necessity reviews by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) by requiring long-term acute care hospitals to
institute a patient review process to better assess patients upon admission and on a continuing basis for appropriateness of care. In addition, the Medicare Extension Act, among other things, provided the following long-term acute care hospital
payment policy changes:



•It prevented CMS from applying the “25-percent rule,” which limits payments from referring co-located hospitals, to freestanding and
grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals for three years;



•It modified the application of the 25-percent rule to certain urban and rural long-term acute care “hospitals-within-hospitals” and
“satellite” facilities for three years;



•It prevented CMS from applying the “very short stay outlier” policy for three years; and



•It prevented CMS from making any one-time adjustments to correct estimates used in implementing LTAC PPS for three years.

Lastly, the Medicare Extension Act introduced a moratorium on new long-term acute care hospitals and beds for three years.

On May 22, 2008, CMS published a final rule addressing two LTAC PPS payment policies mandated by the Medicare Extension Act. The rule
delayed the extension of the 25-percent rule to freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals and increased the patient percentage thresholds for certain urban and rural long-term acute care “hospitals-within-hospitals” and
“satellite” facilities for three years. The rule also set forth policies on implementing the moratorium on new long-term acute care hospitals and beds imposed by the Medicare Extension Act.

On August 27, 2009, CMS published its final rule updating LTAC PPS for the 2010 fiscal year (October 1, 2009 through September 30,
2010), including setting the LTAC PPS standard federal payment rate. CMS estimated that net payments to long-term acute care hospitals under the final rule would increase by approximately 3.3% in fiscal year 2010, reflecting, in part, both a 2%
increase in the federal payment rate for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 and a nearly 20% decrease in the outlier fixed-loss amount for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009.

In the August 27, 2009 final rule, CMS also updated the inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”) for short-term and
long-term acute care hospitals for the 2010 federal fiscal year (October 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010) and finalized policies to implement changes required by Section 124 of the Medicare Improvements for Patients & Providers
Act of 2008 (Pub. L. No. 110-275). The final rule continues reforms intended to improve the accuracy of Medicare payments for inpatient acute care through the severity-adjusted







Index to Financial Statements

diagnosis-related group (MS-LTC-DRG) classification system for long-term acute care hospitals. CMS projects that aggregate annual spending will not change as a result of the reforms. However, CMS
expects that payments would increase for hospitals serving more severely ill patients and decrease for hospitals serving patients who are less severely ill.

We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s rules on the operators of our long-term acute care hospitals, but we cannot assure you that the current rules or future updates to LTAC PPS,
LTC-DRGs or Medicare reimbursement for long-term acute care hospitals will not materially adversely affect our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our
Business—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators” included in Item 1A
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Medicare Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities

The BBA also mandated the creation of a prospective payment system for skilled nursing facilities (“SNF PPS”) offering Part A
covered services. Under SNF PPS, payment amounts are based upon classifications determined through assessments of individual Medicare patients in the skilled nursing facility, rather than on the facility’s reasonable costs. SNF PPS payments are
made on a per diem basis for each resident and are generally intended to cover all inpatient services for Medicare patients, including routine nursing care, most capital-related costs associated with the inpatient stay, and ancillary services, such
as respiratory therapy, occupational and physical therapy, speech therapy and certain covered drugs.

In response to
widespread healthcare industry concern about the reductions in payments under the BBA, the federal government enacted the Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999 (“BBRA”). The BBRA increased the per diem reimbursement rates for certain high
acuity patients by 20% from April 1, 2000 until case mix refinements were implemented by CMS, as explained below. The BBRA also imposed a two-year moratorium on the annual cap mandated by the BBA on physical, occupational and speech therapy
services provided to a patient by outpatient rehabilitation therapy providers, including Part B covered therapy services in nursing facilities. Relief from the BBA therapy caps was subsequently extended multiple times by Congress, but these
extensions expired on December 31, 2009 and have not yet been renewed by Congress. Therefore, effective January 1, 2010, Medicare coverage of therapy services at nursing facilities paid for under Medicare part B are capped at $1,860 per
beneficiary per year for occupational therapy services and $1,860 per beneficiary for speech-language pathology and physical therapy services combined.

Pursuant to its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2006 federal fiscal year, CMS refined the resource utilization groups (“RUGs”) used to determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in
skilled nursing facilities by adding nine new payment categories. The result of this refinement, which became effective on January 1, 2006, was to eliminate the temporary add-on payments that Congress enacted as part of the BBRA.

Under its final rule updating LTC-DRGs for the 2007 federal fiscal year, CMS reduced reimbursement of uncollectible Medicare coinsurance
amounts for all beneficiaries (other than beneficiaries of both Medicare and Medicaid) from 100% to 70% for skilled nursing facility cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2005. CMS estimated that this change in treatment of
bad debt would result in a decrease in payments to skilled nursing facilities of $490 million over the five-year period from federal fiscal year 2006 to 2010. The rule also included various options for classifying and weighting patients transferred
to a skilled nursing facility after a hospital stay less than the mean length of stay associated with that particular diagnosis-related group.

On July 31, 2009, CMS issued its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2010 fiscal year (October 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010). Under the final rule, the update to the SNF PPS standard
federal payment rate for skilled nursing facilities includes a 2.2% increase in the market basket index for the 2010 fiscal year. The final rule also provides a recalibration in the case-mix indexes for the resource utilization groups (RUGs) used to
determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities that is expected to reduce payments to







Index to Financial Statements

skilled nursing facilities by 3.3% in fiscal year 2010. CMS estimates that net payments to skilled nursing facilities as a result of the market basket increase and the recalibration in the
case-mix indexes for RUGS under the final rule would decrease by approximately $360 million, or 1.1%, in fiscal year 2010.

The July 31, 2009 final rule includes other changes that may additionally affect net payments to skilled nursing facilities, including, by way of example, implementation of the RUG-IV classification model for fiscal year 2011 and
possible new requirements for the quarterly reporting of nursing home staffing data.

We regularly assess the financial
implications of CMS’s rules on the operators of our skilled nursing facilities, but we cannot assure you that the current rules or future updates to SNF PPS, therapy services or Medicare reimbursement for skilled nursing facilities will not
materially adversely impact our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors,
including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Medicaid Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities

Approximately two-thirds of all nursing home residents are dependent on Medicaid. Medicaid reimbursement rates, however, typically are less
than the amounts charged by the operators of our skilled nursing facilities. Although the federal government and the states share responsibility for financing Medicaid, states have a wide range of discretion, within certain federal guidelines, to
determine eligibility and reimbursement methodology. In addition, federal legislation limits an operator’s ability to withdraw from the Medicaid program by restricting the eviction or transfer of Medicaid residents. As state budget pressures
continue to escalate as result of the financial crisis, a significant number of states have announced actual or potential budget shortfalls. As a result of these shortfalls, states are reducing Medicaid expenditures by implementing
“freezes” or cuts in Medicaid rates paid to providers, including hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, or by restricting eligibility and benefits.

In the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (Pub. L. No. 109 171), Congress made changes to the Medicaid program that were estimated to result in $10 billion in savings to the federal government over the
five years following enactment of the legislation, primarily through the accounting practices some states use to calculate their matched payments and revising the qualifications for individuals who are eligible for Medicaid benefits. The changes
made by CMS’s final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2006 federal fiscal year were also anticipated to reduce Medicaid payments to skilled nursing facility operators. In addition, as part of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 (Pub. L.
No. 109-432), Congress reduced the ceiling on taxes that states may impose on healthcare providers and which would qualify for federal financial participation under Medicaid by 0.5%, from 6% to 5.5%. Nationally, it was anticipated that this
reduction should have a negligible effect, impacting only those states with taxes in excess of 5.5%. The ceiling is scheduled to revert back to 6% on October 1, 2011. We have not ascertained the impact of this reduction on our skilled nursing
facility operators.

On February 17, 2009, the President signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009 (Pub. L. No. 111-5) (the “Recovery Act”). The Recovery Act appropriates additional funds for health care improvement, expansion, and research. The Recovery Act, for example, temporarily increases federal payments to state
Medicaid programs by $86.6 billion by, among other things, increasing the federal share of Medicaid payments to the states by 6.2% across the board, with additional funds available depending on a State’s rate. The Recovery Act requires states
to promptly pay nursing facilities under their Medicaid program, and precludes states, as a condition of receiving the additional funding, from heightening their Medicaid eligibility requirements and a temporary increase in federal monies. The
increase in payments to States has not yet been extended and the effect of this cannot be ascertained at this time. The President’s 2011 budget submitted to Congress on February 1, 2010 proposes to temporarily extend the Medicaid federal
assistance payments for six months, through June 30, 2011.







Index to Financial Statements

As state reimbursement methodologies continue to evolve, at this time we expect significant
Medicaid rate freezes or cuts or other program changes to be adopted by many states. In addition, the U.S. government may revoke, reduce or stop approving “provider taxes” that have the effect of increasing Medicaid payments to the states.
We cannot predict the impact of such actions on our operators and we cannot assure you that payments under Medicaid are currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse our operators for the cost of providing skilled nursing
services. Severe and widespread Medicaid rate cuts or freezes could have a material adverse effect on our skilled nursing facility operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Environmental Regulation

As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health and safety matters. These laws and regulations address, among other things, asbestos, polychlorinated
biphenyls, fuel oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions, radioactive materials, medical wastes, and hazardous wastes. In certain cases, the costs of complying with these laws and regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be
substantial. For example, although we do not generally operate or manage our properties, we may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property from which there is or has been a
release or threatened release of a regulated material and any other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release. In addition to these costs, which are typically not limited by law or regulation and could exceed the
property’s value, we could be liable for certain other costs, including governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If any of our properties are
found to be contaminated, or if we become involved in any environmental disputes, we could incur substantial liabilities and costs” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We are generally indemnified by the current operators of our properties for contamination caused by those operators. For example, under the
Kindred Master Leases, Kindred has agreed to indemnify us against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or relating to, the leased properties at any time on or after
the lease commencement date for the applicable leased property and from any condition permitted to deteriorate on or after such date (including as a result of migration from adjacent properties not owned or operated by us or any of our affiliates
other than Kindred and its direct affiliates). However, we cannot assure you that Kindred or another operator will have the financial capability or the willingness to satisfy any such environmental claims, and in the event Kindred or another
operator is unable or unwilling to do so, we may be required to satisfy the claims. See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—We depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and
operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living or to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

We have also generally agreed to indemnify certain of our operators against any environmental claims (including
penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or relating to, the leased properties at any time before the lease commencement date for the applicable leased property. We have agreed to indemnify Sunrise against
any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any conditions on our properties managed by Sunrise, unless Sunrise caused or contributed to those conditions.

We did not make any material capital expenditures in connection with environmental, health, and safety laws, ordinances and regulations in
2009 and do not expect that we will have to make any such material capital expenditures during 2010.







Index to Financial Statements

CERTAIN U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS

This section summarizes certain U.S. federal income tax considerations that you may consider relevant as a holder of our common stock. It is
not tax advice. The discussion does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to particular stockholders in light of their personal investment or tax circumstances, nor does it apply to certain types of stockholders that are subject
to special treatment under the federal income tax laws, such as insurance companies, tax-exempt organizations (except to the extent discussed below under “—Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders”), financial institutions, pass-through
entities (or investors in such entities) or broker-dealers, and non-U.S. persons and foreign corporations (except to the extent discussed below under “—Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders”).

The statements in this section are based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), U.S. Treasury Regulations
and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof. The laws governing the federal income tax treatment of REITs and their stockholders are highly technical and complex, and this summary is qualified in its entirety by the authorities listed
above, as in effect on the date hereof. We cannot assure you that new laws, interpretations of law or court decisions, any of which may take effect retroactively, will not cause any statement in this section to be inaccurate.

Federal Income Taxation of Ventas

We elected REIT status beginning with the year ended December 31, 1999. Beginning with the 1999 tax year, we believe that we have satisfied the requirements to qualify as a REIT, and we intend to continue to qualify as a REIT for
federal income tax purposes. If we continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on net income that we currently distribute to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the
“double taxation” (i.e., taxation at both the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation.

Notwithstanding our qualification as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax on any undistributed taxable income, including undistributed net capital gains, at regular corporate rates. In
addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax if we do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements. See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements.” Under certain circumstances, we may
be subject to the “alternative minimum tax” on our undistributed items of tax preference. If we have (i) net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” (see below) that is held primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of business or (ii) certain other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we will be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on such income. See “—Requirements for Qualification as a
REIT—Asset Tests.” In addition, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions” (which are, in general, certain sales or other dispositions of property (other than foreclosure property) held primarily for sale to customers
in the ordinary course of business), that income will be subject to a 100% tax.

We may also be subject to “Built-in
Gains Tax” on any appreciated asset that we own or acquire that was previously owned by a C corporation (i.e., a corporation generally subject to full corporate level tax). If we dispose of any of these assets and recognize gain on the
disposition of such asset during the ten-year period immediately after the assets were owned by a C corporation (either prior to our REIT election, or through stock acquisition or merger), then we generally will be subject to regular corporate
income tax on the gain equal to the lower of (i) the recognized gain at the time of the disposition or (ii) the built-in gain in that asset as of the date it became a REIT asset. Effective January 1, 2009, our Kindred assets were no
longer subject to Built-in Gains Tax. The 21 Brookdale assets we acquired in connection with our Provident acquisition will remain subject to Built-in Gains Tax until November 2014.

In addition, if we fail to satisfy the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test (as discussed below) and nonetheless maintain our
qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements have been met, we will be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the greater of the amount by which we failed the applicable test (or, for our 2001 through 2004 taxable
years, a 90% test in lieu of the 95% test), multiplied by a







Index to Financial Statements

fraction intended to reflect our profitability. If we violate one or more of the REIT asset tests (as discussed below) under certain circumstances, but the violation is due to reasonable cause
and not willful neglect and we were to take certain remedial actions, we may avoid a loss of our REIT status by, among other things, paying a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income
generated by the non-qualifying asset during a specified period. If we fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT qualification, other than the 75% gross income test, the 95% gross income test or the assets tests, but nonetheless maintain our
qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements have been met, we may be subject to a $50,000 penalty for each failure. Finally, we will incur a 100% excise tax on certain transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary that are not conducted
on an arm’s-length basis.

See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT” below for other circumstances
in which we may be required to pay federal taxes.

Requirements for Qualification as a REIT

To qualify as a REIT, we must meet the requirements discussed below, relating to our organization, sources of income, nature of assets and
distributions of income to stockholders.

Organizational Requirements

The Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association: (i) that is managed by one or more directors or trustees; (ii) the
beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) that would be taxable as a domestic corporation, but for Sections 856 through 859 of the Code; (iv) that is
neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code; (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of twelve months, or during a
proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (the “100 Shareholder Rule”); (vi) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to
include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year (the “5/50 Rule”); (vii) that makes an election to be a REIT (or has made such election for a previous taxable year) and satisfies all relevant filing and other
administrative requirements established by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that must be met in order to elect and to maintain REIT status; (viii) that uses a calendar year for federal income tax purposes; and (ix) that meets
certain other tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income and assets.

We believe, but we cannot assure you,
that we have satisfied and will continue to satisfy the organizational requirements. In order to prevent a concentration of ownership of our stock that would cause us to fail the 5/50 Rule or the 100 Shareholder Rule, we have placed certain
restrictions on the transfer of our shares that are intended to prevent such concentration of share ownership. However, such restrictions may not prevent us from failing to meet these requirements, and thereby failing to qualify as a REIT.

In addition, to qualify as a REIT, a corporation may not have (as of the end of the taxable year) any earnings and profits
that were accumulated in periods before it elected REIT status. We believe that we have not had any accumulated earnings and profits that are attributable to non-REIT periods, although the IRS is entitled to challenge that determination.

Gross Income Tests

To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two annual gross income requirements. First, at least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must consist
of defined types of income derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property (including pledges of equity interest in certain entities holding real property and also including “rents from
real property” (as defined in the Code)) and, in certain circumstances, interest on certain types of temporary







Index to Financial Statements

investment income. Second, at least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must be derived from such real property or temporary
investments, dividends, interest and gain from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, or from any combination of the foregoing.

We believe, but we cannot assure you, that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with the gross income tests. If we fail to satisfy one or both gross income tests for any taxable year, we may
nevertheless qualify as a REIT for the year under certain relief provisions of the Code. If we were eligible to qualify under the relief provisions, a 100% tax would be imposed with respect to the income exceeding one or both of the gross income
tests.

If we fail to satisfy one or both of the gross income tests and the relief provisions for any year, we will not
qualify as a REIT for such year. Loss of our REIT status would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Asset Tests

At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must satisfy the following tests relating to the nature of our
assets. First, at least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by cash or cash items (including certain receivables), government securities, “real estate assets” (including interest in real property and in mortgages on
real property and shares in other qualifying REITs) or, in cases where we raise new capital through stock or long-term (maturity of at least five years) debt offerings, temporary investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period
following our receipt of such capital (the “75% asset test”). Second, of the investments not meeting the requirements of the 75% asset test, the value of any one issuer’s debt and equity securities owned by us (other than our interest
in any entity classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the stock of a taxable REIT subsidiary (as defined below) or the stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary) may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets (the “5% asset
test”), and we may not own more than 10% of any one issuer’s outstanding voting securities (the “10% voting securities test”) or 10% of the value of any one issuer’s outstanding securities, subject to limited “safe
harbor” exceptions (the “10% value test”). In addition, no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be represented by securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “25% TRS test”).

If we fail to satisfy the asset tests at the end of any quarter other than our first quarter, we may nevertheless continue to qualify as a
REIT and maintain our REIT status if (i) we satisfied all of the asset tests at the close of the preceding calendar quarter and (ii) the discrepancy between the value of our assets and the asset test requirements arose from changes in the
market values of our assets and was not wholly or partly caused by an acquisition of nonqualifying assets.







Index to Financial Statements

circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. We intend to maintain adequate records of the value of our assets to ensure compliance with the asset tests and to
take such other actions as may be required to comply with those tests.

We believe, but we cannot assure you, that we have
been and will continue to be in compliance with the 75% asset test, the 10% voting securities test, the 10% value test, the 5% asset test and the 25% TRS test. If we fail to satisfy any of these tests and the relief provisions, we would lose our
REIT status, which would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Foreclosure Property

The foreclosure property rules permit us (by our election) to foreclose or repossess properties without being disqualified as a REIT as a
result of receiving income that does not qualify under the gross income tests; however, a corporate tax is imposed upon such net non-qualifying income from “foreclosure property.” Detailed rules specify the calculation of the tax, and the
after-tax amount would increase the dividends we would be required to distribute to stockholders each year. See “—Annual Distribution Requirements” below.

Foreclosure property treatment will end on the first day on which we enter into a lease of the property that will give rise to income that is not “good REIT” income under Section 856(c)(3)
of the Code. In addition, foreclosure property treatment will end if any construction takes place on the property (other than completion of a building, or other improvement more than 10% complete before default became imminent). Foreclosure property
treatment is available for an initial period of three years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional three years. Foreclosure property treatment for qualified healthcare property is available for an initial period of two
years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional four years.

Taxable REIT Subsidiaries

We are permitted to own up to 100% of a “taxable REIT subsidiary” or “TRS.” A TRS is a corporation subject
to tax as a regular C corporation. Generally, a TRS can own assets that cannot be owned by a REIT and can perform otherwise impermissible tenant services (excluding the direct or indirect operation or management of a lodging or healthcare facility)
which would otherwise disqualify the REIT’s rental income under the REIT income tests. There are certain limits on the ability of a TRS to deduct interest payments made to us. In addition, we will be obligated to pay a 100% penalty tax on
excess payments that we receive or on excess expenses deducted by the TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties.

Annual Distribution Requirements







Index to Financial Statements

each calendar year (or, in the case of distributions with declaration and record dates falling in the last three months of the calendar year, by the end of January following such calendar year)
at least the sum of (i) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than long-term capital gain we elect to retain and treat as having been distributed to stockholders),
and (iii) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over the amounts actually distributed.

We believe, but we cannot assure you, that we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for the year of our REIT election and each
year thereafter through the year ended December 31, 2009. Although we intend to continue meeting the annual distribution requirements to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes for the year ending December 31, 2010 and subsequent
years, it is possible that economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may limit our ability to meet such requirements. As a result, if we are not able to meet the annual distribution requirement, we would fail to qualify as a REIT.
Moreover, if we distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income by taking advantage of the “throwback rule” described in clause (ii)(C) of the second sentence of the preceding paragraph, satisfying the REIT distribution requirement and
generally avoiding corporate level tax, we may incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax.

In Revenue Procedure 2010-12, the IRS
stated that it would treat stock dividends as distributions for purposes of satisfying the REIT distribution requirements for calendar years 2008 through 2012, provided that stockholders can elect to receive the distribution in either cash or stock,
subject to certain limitations. Any stock so distributed would be taxable to the recipient. We may choose to declare stock dividends in accordance with Revenue Procedure 2010-12 or otherwise. Also, we have net operating loss carryforwards that we
can use to reduce our annual distribution requirements. See “Note 11—Income Taxes” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Failure to Continue to Qualify

If we fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT qualification, other than an asset or income test violation of a type for which relief is otherwise available as described above, we would retain
our REIT qualification if the failure is due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect and if we were to pay a penalty of $50,000 for each such failure. However, it is not possible to predict whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to
the benefit of this relief provision.

If our election to be taxed as a REIT is revoked or terminated (e.g., due to a failure
to meet the REIT qualification tests and no relief provisions were to apply), we would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (for all open tax years beginning with the
year our REIT election is revoked or terminated) except to the extent of net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards. Distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us, nor would they be required to be made. To the extent of current
and accumulated earnings and profits, all distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary income, and, subject to certain limitations in the Code, corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction. In addition,
we would be prohibited from re-electing REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions of the Code applied. It is impossible to predict whether we would be
entitled to such statutory relief.

Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Stockholders

As used herein, the term “U.S. Stockholder” means a holder of our common stock that for U.S. federal income tax purposes is:
(i) an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States; (ii) a corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia; (iii) an estate the income of which
is includible in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes regardless of its source; or (iv) any trust with respect to which (A) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust or
(B) an election has been made under applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations to







Index to Financial Statements

retain its pre-August 20, 1996 classification as a U.S. person. If a partnership holds our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and
on the activities of the partnership. Partners of partnerships holding our stock should consult their tax advisors. This section assumes the U.S. Stockholder holds our common stock as a capital asset.

We may elect to treat all or a part of our undistributed net capital gain as if it had been distributed to our stockholders (including for purposes of the 4% excise tax discussed above under
“—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements”). If we make such an election, our stockholders would be required to include in their income as long-term capital gain their proportionate share of our
undistributed net capital gain, as designated by us. Each such stockholder would be deemed to have paid its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such undistributed net capital gain, and this amount would be credited or
refunded to the stockholder. In addition, the tax basis of the stockholder’s shares would be increased by its proportionate share of undistributed net capital gains included in its income, less its proportionate share of the income tax imposed
on us with respect to such gains.

Stockholders may not include in their individual income tax returns any of our net
operating losses or net capital losses. Instead, such losses would be carried over by us for potential offset against our future income (subject to certain limitations). Taxable distributions from us and gain from the disposition of our common stock
will not be treated as passive activity income, and, therefore, stockholders generally will not be able to apply any “passive activity losses” (such as losses from certain types of limited partnerships in which the stockholder is a limited
partner) against such income. In addition, taxable distributions from us generally will be treated as investment income for purposes of the investment interest limitations.

We will notify stockholders after the close of our taxable year as to the portions of the distributions attributable to that year that
constitute ordinary income, return of capital and capital gain. To the extent a portion of the distribution is designated as a capital gain dividend, we will notify stockholders as to the portion that is a “15% rate gain distribution” and
the portion that is an unrecaptured Section 1250 distribution. A 15% rate gain distribution is a capital gain distribution to domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts that is taxable at a maximum rate of 15%. An
unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution would be taxable to taxable domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%.

Taxation of U.S. Stockholders on the Disposition of Shares of Common Stock

In general, a U.S. Stockholder who is not a dealer in securities must treat any gain or loss realized upon a taxable disposition of our common stock as long-term capital gain or loss if the U.S. Stockholder has held the shares for more than
one year, and otherwise as short-term capital gain or loss. However, a U.S. Stockholder







Index to Financial Statements

must treat any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our common stock held for six months or less as a long-term capital loss to the extent of capital gain dividends and any other actual or
deemed distributions from us which the U.S. Stockholder treats as long-term capital gain. All or a portion of any loss that a U.S. Stockholder realizes upon a taxable disposition of our common stock may be disallowed if the U.S. Stockholder
purchases other shares of our common stock within 30 days before or after the disposition.

Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders

Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders

The rules governing U.S. federal income taxation of nonresident alien individuals, foreign corporations, foreign estates and foreign trusts (collectively, “Non-U.S. Stockholders”) are complex,
and the following is no more than a brief summary of those rules. Non-U.S. Stockholders should consult with their own tax advisors to determine the impact of federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax laws with regard to their ownership of our common
stock, including any reporting requirements.

For purposes of this discussion, the term “Non-U.S. Stockholder” does
not include any foreign stockholder whose investment in our stock is “effectively connected” with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Such a foreign stockholder, in general, will be subject to U.S. federal income tax
with respect to its investment in our stock in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder is taxed (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals). In addition, a foreign
corporation receiving income that is treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business also may be subject to an additional 30% “branch profits tax,” unless an applicable tax treaty provides a lower rate or an exemption.
Certain certification requirements must be satisfied in order for effectively connected income to be exempt from withholding.

Distributions to Non-U.S. Stockholders that are not attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests and are not designated by us as capital gain dividends (or deemed distributions of retained capital
gains) will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Such distributions ordinarily will be subject to a withholding tax equal to 30% of the gross amount of
the distribution unless an applicable tax treaty reduces or eliminates that tax. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to a stockholder to the extent that such distributions do not exceed the
adjusted basis of the stockholder’s shares (determined on a share-by-share basis), but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of those shares. To the extent that distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the
adjusted basis of a Non-U.S. Stockholder’s shares, such distributions will give rise to tax liability if the Non-U.S. Stockholder would otherwise be subject to tax on any gain from the sale or disposition of its shares, as described below.







Index to Financial Statements

We expect to withhold U.S. tax at the rate of 30% on the gross amount of any dividends,
other than dividends treated as attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests and capital gain dividends, paid to a Non-U.S. Stockholder, unless (i) a lower treaty rate applies and the required IRS
Form W-8BEN evidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is filed with us or the appropriate withholding agent or (ii) the Non-U.S. Stockholder files an IRS Form W-8ECI or a successor form with us or the appropriate withholding agent
properly claiming that the distributions are effectively connected with the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

If a Non-U.S. Stockholder does not own more than 5% of our shares at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of the
distribution, the gain will not be considered to be effectively connected with a U.S. business. As such, a Non-U.S. Stockholder who does not own more than 5% of our shares would not be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return by receiving
such a distribution. In this case, the distribution will be treated as a REIT dividend to that Non-U.S. Stockholder and taxed as a REIT dividend that is not a capital gain distribution (and subject to possible withholding), as described above. In
addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to the distribution.

For so long as our common stock continues to be
regularly traded on an established securities market, the sale of such stock by any Non-U.S. Stockholder who is not a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder (as defined below) generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax (unless the Non-U.S.
Stockholder is a nonresident alien individual who was present in the United States for more than 182 days during the taxable year of the sale and certain other conditions apply, in which case such gain will be subject to a 30% tax on a gross basis).
A “Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder” is a Non-U.S. Stockholder who, at some time during the five-year period preceding such sale or disposition, beneficially owned (including under certain attribution rules) more than 5% of the total
fair market value of our common stock (as outstanding from time to time).

In general, the sale or other taxable disposition
of our common stock by a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder also will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax if we are a “domestically controlled REIT.” A REIT is a “domestically controlled REIT” if, at all times during
the five-year period preceding the disposition in question, less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by Non-U.S. Stockholders. Although we believe that we currently qualify as a domestically controlled REIT, because our
common stock is publicly traded, we cannot assure you that we currently qualify or will qualify as a domestically controlled REIT at any







Index to Financial Statements

time in the future. If we do not constitute a domestically controlled REIT, a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder will be taxed in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder with respect to gain on the
sale of our common stock (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals).

Information Reporting Requirements and Backup Withholding Tax

Information
reporting to our stockholders and to the IRS will apply to the amount of distributions paid during each calendar year and distributions required to be treated as so paid during a calendar year, and the amount of tax withheld, if any, and to the
proceeds of a sale or other disposition of our common stock. Under the backup withholding rules, a stockholder may be subject to backup withholding at the applicable rate (currently 28%) with respect to distributions paid and proceeds from a
disposition of our common stock unless such holder (i) is a corporation, non-U.S. person or comes within certain other exempt categories and, when required, demonstrates this fact or (ii) provides a taxpayer identification number,
certifies as to no loss of exemption from backup withholding and otherwise complies with the applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules. A stockholder who does not provide us with its correct taxpayer identification number also may be
subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.

Stockholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding their qualifications
for an exemption from backup withholding and the procedure for obtaining such an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup withholding with respect to a payment to a U.S. Stockholder will be allowed as
a credit against the U.S. Stockholder’s U.S. federal income tax liability and may entitle the U.S. Stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information is furnished timely to the IRS.

As a general matter, backup withholding and information reporting will not apply to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock
by or through a foreign office of a foreign broker. Information reporting (but not backup withholding) will apply, however, to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock by a foreign office of a broker that (i) is a U.S. person,
(ii) is a foreign partnership that derives 50% or more of its gross income for certain periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, or more than 50% of whose capital or profit interests are owned during certain periods
by U.S. persons, or (iii) is a “controlled foreign corporation” for U.S. tax purposes, unless the broker has documentary evidence in its records that the holder is a Non-U.S. Stockholder and certain other conditions are satisfied, or
the stockholder otherwise establishes an exemption. Payment to or through a U.S. office of a broker of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock is subject to both backup withholding and information reporting unless the stockholder certifies under
penalties of perjury that the stockholder is a Non-U.S. Stockholder or otherwise establishes an exemption. A stockholder may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules in excess of its U.S. federal income tax
liability by timely filing the appropriate claim for a refund with the IRS.

Other Tax Consequences

State and Local Taxes

We and/or our stockholders may be subject to taxation by various states and localities, including those in which we or a stockholder transact business, own property or reside. The state and local tax
treatment may differ from the federal income tax treatment described above. Consequently, stockholders should consult their own tax advisers regarding the effect of state and local tax laws, in addition to the federal, foreign and other tax laws, in
connection with an investment in our common stock.

Possible Legislative or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences

You should recognize that our present federal income tax treatment may be modified by future legislative, judicial and
administrative actions or decisions at any time, which may be retroactive in effect, and which could







Index to Financial Statements

adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in shares of our common stock. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the
legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, resulting in statutory changes as well as promulgation of new, or revisions to existing, regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts.

On July 30, 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Tax Act of 2008 (the “2008 Act”) was enacted into law. The 2008
Act’s sections that affect the REIT provisions of the Code are generally effective for taxable years beginning after its date of enactment, which means that the new provisions apply to us from and after January 1, 2009, except as otherwise
indicated below.

The 2008 Act made the following changes to, or clarifications of, the REIT provisions of the Code that could
be relevant for us:



•Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.    The limit on the value of taxable REIT subsidiaries’ securities held by a REIT was
increased from 20% to 25% of the total value of such REIT’s assets. See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.”



•Rental Income from a TRS.    A REIT is generally limited in its ability to earn qualifying rental income from a TRS. The
2008 Act permits a REIT to earn qualifying rental income from the lease of a qualified healthcare property to a TRS if an eligible independent contractor operates the property. In certain future circumstances, we may find it advantageous to lease
properties to one or more TRSs in this manner.



•Foreign Currency as Cash.    Foreign currency that is the functional currency of a REIT or a qualified business unit of a
REIT and is held for use in the normal course of business of such REIT or qualified business unit will be treated as cash for purposes of the 75% asset test. The foreign currency must not be derived from dealing, or engaging in substantial and
regular trading in securities. See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Asset Tests.”





•



Foreign Currency Gain



•Expanded Prohibited Transactions Safe Harbor.    The safe harbor from the prohibited transactions tax for certain sales of
real estate assets is expanded by reducing the required minimum holding period from four years to two years, among other changes.



•Hedging Income.    Income from a hedging transaction entered into after July 30, 2008 that complies with identification
procedures set out in U.S. Treasury Regulations and hedges indebtedness incurred or to be incurred by us to acquire or carry real estate assets will not constitute gross income for purposes of both the 75% and 95% gross income tests.







Index to Financial Statements

•Reclassification Authority.    The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to determine whether particular items
of gain or income recognized after July 30, 2008 qualify or not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be excluded from the measure of gross income for such purposes.

We cannot predict the likelihood of passage of any new tax legislation or other provisions either directly or indirectly affecting us or our
stockholders or the value of an investment in our common stock.



