ITEM 1.Business

BUSINESS

Overview



Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a REIT with a highly diversified portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties located throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.  As ofDecember 31, 2016, we owned approximately1,300properties (including properties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities and properties classified as held for sale), consisting of seniors housing communities, MOBs, life science and innovation centers, skilled nursing facilities, specialty hospitals and general acute care hospitals, and we hadsixproperties under development, includingoneproperty that is owned by an unconsolidated real estate entity.  Our company was originally founded in 1983 and is currently headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.



We primarily invest in seniors housing and healthcare properties through acquisitions and lease our properties to unaffiliated tenants or operate them through independent third-party managers.  As ofDecember 31, 2016, we leased a total of549properties (excluding MOBs and33properties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities) to various healthcare operating companies under “triple-net” or “absolute-net” leases that obligate the tenants to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and we engaged independent operators, such as Atria and Sunrise, to manage298seniors housing communities (excludingoneproperty owned through investments in unconsolidated entities) for us pursuant to long-term management agreements.



Our three largest tenants, Brookdale Senior Living, Kindred and Ardent leased from us140properties (excludingsixproperties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities and excludingoneproperty managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to a long-term management agreement),68properties (excludingoneMOB) andtenproperties, respectively, as ofDecember 31, 2016.



Through our Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. (“Lillibridge”) subsidiary and our ownership interest in PMB Real Estate Services LLC (“PMBRES”), we also provide MOB management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States.  In addition, from time to time, we make secured and other loans and investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties.



In September 2016, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the university affiliated life science and innovation real estate assets of Wexford Science & Technology, LLC (“Wexford”) from affiliates of Blackstone Real Estate Partners VIII, L.P. (together with its affiliates, “Blackstone”) (the “Life Sciences Acquisition”).  As a result, we renamed our MOB operations reportable business segment “office operations,” which now includes both MOBs and life science assets.



We operate through three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties, senior living operations and office operations.  See our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes, including “NOTE 2—ACCOUNTING POLICIES,” included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Business Strategy



We aim to enhance shareholder value by delivering consistent, superior total returns through a strategy of: (1) generating reliable and growing cash flows; (2) maintaining a balanced, diversified portfolio of high-quality assets; and (3) preserving our financial strength, flexibility and liquidity.



Generating Reliable and Growing Cash Flows



Generating reliable and growing cash flows from our seniors housing and healthcare assets enables us to pay regular cash dividends to stockholders and creates opportunities to increase stockholder value through profitable investments.  The combination of steady contractual growth from our long-term triple-net leases, steady, reliable cash flows from our loan investments and stable cash flows from our office buildings with the higher growth potential inherent in our seniors housing operating communities drives our ability to generate sustainable, growing cash flows that are resilient to economic downturns.










Maintaining a Balanced, Diversified Portfolio



We believe that maintaining a balanced portfolio of high-quality assets diversified by investment type, geographic location, asset type, tenant/operator, revenue source and operating model diminishes the risk that any single factor or event could materially harm our business.  Portfolio diversification also enhances the reliability of our cash flows by reducing our exposure to any individual tenant, operator or manager and making us less susceptible to single-state regulatory or reimbursement changes, regional climate events and local economic downturns.



Preserving Our Financial Strength, Flexibility and Liquidity



A strong, flexible balance sheet and excellent liquidity position us favorably to capitalize on strategic growth opportunities in the seniors housing and healthcare industries through acquisitions, investments and development and redevelopment projects. We maintain our financial strength to pursue profitable investment opportunities by actively managing our leverage, improving our cost of capital and preserving our access to multiple sources of liquidity, including unsecured bank debt, mortgage financings and public debt and equity markets.



2016Highlights and Other Recent Developments



Investments and Dispositions



•In September 2016, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the university affiliated life science and innovation real estate assets of Wexford from Blackstone for total consideration of$1.5 billion. The Life Sciences Acquisition added to our portfolio23operating properties,twodevelopment assets andninefuture development sites.



•In October 2016, we committed to provide secured debt financing in the amount of$700.0 millionto a subsidiary of Ardent to facilitate Ardent’s acquisition of LHP Hospital Group, Inc. (“LHP”).  The loan (the “Loan”) has afive-year term and is LIBOR-based with an initial interest rate of approximately8.0%and is guaranteed by Ardent’s parent company.  Ardent will also receive an equity contribution from its majority owner, an affiliate of Equity Group Investments. The Loan is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Ardent’s acquisition of LHP is expected to close in the first quarter of 2017, but there can be no assurance as to whether, when or on what terms Ardent’s acquisition of LHP or the Loan will be completed.



•During 2016, we made a$140.0 millionsecured mezzanine loan investment relating to Class A life sciences properties in California and Massachusetts, that has an annual interest rate of9.95%, and we acquiredtwoMOBs,onetriple-net leased seniors housing asset and other investments for approximately$42.3 million.



•During the year ended December 31, 2016, we sold29triple-net leased properties,oneseniors housing community included in our senior living operations reportable business segment andsixMOBs for aggregate consideration of$300.8 million. We recognized a gain on the sales of these assets of$98.2 million(net of taxes).



•During 2016, we received aggregate proceeds of$309.0 millionin final repayment ofthreesecured loans receivable and partial repayment ofonesecured loan receivable and recognized gains of$9.6 millionon the repayment of these loans receivable.



Capital and Dividends



•During 2016, we issued and sold18.9 millionshares of common stock under our “at-the-market” (“ATM”) equity offering program and public offerings.  Aggregate net proceeds for these activities were$1.3 billion, after sales agent commissions.



•In May 2016, we repaid$100.0 millionoutstanding on our unsecured term loan due 2019 using cash on hand.



•In May 2016, we issued and sold$400.0 millionaggregate principal amount of3.125%senior notes due 2023 at a public offering price equal to99.343%of par, for total proceeds of$397.4 millionbefore the underwriting discount and expenses.



•In June 2016, we redeemed$455.5 millionaggregate principal amount then outstanding of our1.55%senior notes due September 2016 at a public offering price of100.335%of par, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.  In July 2016, we repaid the remaining balance then outstanding of our 1.55% senior notes due September 2016.










•In September 2016, we issued and sold$450.0 millionaggregate principal amount of3.25%senior notes due 2026 at a public offering price equal to99.811%of par, for total proceeds of$449.1 millionbefore the underwriting discount and expenses.



•In 2016, we paid an annual cash dividend on our common stock of$2.965per share.  In December 2016, our fourth quarter 2016 dividend grew by 6% over third quarter 2016 to $0.775.



Portfolio

•In April 2016, we entered into several agreements with Kindred to improve the quality and productivity of the long term acute care hospital (“LTAC”) portfolio leased by Ventas to Kindred. Certain of the agreements consist of lease amendments to the Kindred master leases, for which we received a$3.5 millionfee. Under these lease amendments, annual rent onsevenidentified LTACs (the “7 LTACs”), which was approximately$8 million, was immediately re-allocated to other more productive post-acute assets subject to the Kindred master leases.  Separately, in October 2016, we sold the 7 LTACs to an unrelated third party for$3.0 million, and recognized a gain of$2.9 million.



•In September 2016, we modified existing agreements with Sunrise related to the management of certain of the seniors housing communities owned by us and operated by Sunrise to reduce management fees payable to Sunrise under such agreements, maintain the existing term of such agreements and provide Sunrise with incentives for future outperformance. We also entered into a new multi-year development pipeline agreement with Sunrise that gives us the option to fund certain future Sunrise developments.



•In November 2016, we entered into agreements with Kindred providing that (i) Kindred will either acquire all36SNFs owned by us and operated by Kindred for$700 million, in connection with Kindred’s previously announced plan to exit its SNF business, or renew the current lease on all unpurchased SNFs through 2025 at the current rent level; and (ii) Kindred has extended the lease term to 2025 for all of our LTACs operated by Kindred that were scheduled to mature in 2018 and 2020, at the current rent level.



Portfolio Summary



The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio of properties and other investments (including properties classified as held for sale and excluding properties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities) as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2016:

Real Estate Property InvestmentsRevenuesAsset Type# ofProperties(1)# of Units/Sq. Ft./Beds(2)Real Estate Property Investment, at CostPercent ofTotal Real Estate Property InvestmentsReal EstatePropertyInvestment Per Unit/Bed/Sq. Ft.RevenuePercent of Total Revenues(Dollars in thousands)Seniors housing communities74465,175$16,074,61161.8%$246.6$2,351,47368.4%MOBs(3)36520,443,9995,393,84120.70.3599,05817.4Life science and innovation centers234,272,1851,587,9156.10.452,3541.5Skilled nursing facilities536,279358,3291.457.175,9852.2Specialty hospitals383,282453,1661.7138.1160,0094.6General acute care hospitals122,0641,459,3535.6707.1105,6733.1Total properties1,23525,327,21597.33,344,55297.2Secured loans receivable and investments, net702,0212.798,0942.8Interest and other income——8760.0Total$26,029,236100.0%$3,443,522100.0%

(1)As ofDecember 31, 2016, we also owned21seniors housing communities,13skilled nursing facilities andfiveMOBs through investments in unconsolidated entities.   Our consolidated properties were located in46states, the District of Columbia,sevenCanadian provinces and the United Kingdom and, excluding MOBs, were operated or managed by94unaffiliated healthcare operating companies, including the following publicly traded companies or their subsidiaries:  Brookdale Senior Living (140properties) (excludingsixproperties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities andoneproperty managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to a long-term management agreement); Kindred (68properties) (excludingoneMOB); 21st Century Oncology Holdings, Inc. (12properties); Capital Senior Living Corporation (12properties); Spire Healthcare plc (threeproperties); and HealthSouth Corp. (fourproperties).








(2)Seniors housing communities are measured in units; MOBs and life science and innovation centers are measured by square footage; and skilled nursing facilities, specialty hospitals and general acute care hospitals are measured by bed count.

(3)As ofDecember 31, 2016, we leased67of our consolidated MOBs pursuant to triple-net leases, Lillibridge or PMBRES managed279of our consolidated MOBs and19of our consolidated MOBs were managed byeightunaffiliated managers.  Through Lillibridge and PMBRES, we also provided management and leasing services for90MOBs owned by third parties as ofDecember 31, 2016.



Seniors Housing and Healthcare Properties



As ofDecember 31, 2016, we owned a total of1,274seniors housing and healthcare properties (including properties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities and properties classified as held for sale) as follows:Consolidated(100% interest)Consolidated(<100% interest)Unconsolidated(5-25% interest)TotalSeniors housing communities7311321765MOBs332335370Life science and innovation centers158—23Skilled nursing facilities53—1366Specialty hospitals371—38General acute care hospitals12——12Total1,18055391,274

Seniors Housing Communities

Our seniors housing communities include independent and assisted living communities, continuing care retirement communities and communities providing care for individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia or memory loss.  These communities offer studio, one bedroom and two bedroom residential units on a month-to-month basis primarily to elderly individuals requiring various levels of assistance.  Basic services for residents of these communities include housekeeping, meals in a central dining area and group activities organized by the staff with input from the residents.  More extensive care and personal supervision, at additional fees, are also available for such needs as eating, bathing, grooming, transportation, limited therapeutic programs and medication administration, which allow residents certain conveniences and enable them to live as independently as possible according to their abilities.  These services are often met by home health providers, close coordination with the resident’s physician and skilled nursing facilities.  Charges for room, board and services are generally paid from private sources.

Medical Office Buildings

Typically, our MOBs are multi-tenant properties leased to several unrelated medical practices, although in many cases they may be associated with a large single specialty or multi-specialty group.  Tenants include physicians, dentists, psychologists, therapists and other healthcare providers, who require space devoted to patient examination and treatment, diagnostic imaging, outpatient surgery and other outpatient services.  MOBs are similar to commercial office buildings, although they require greater plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems to accommodate physicians’ requirements such as sinks in every room, brighter lights and specialized medical equipment.  As ofDecember 31, 2016, we owned or managed for third parties approximately24 millionsquare feet of MOBs that are predominantly located on or near an acute care hospital campus.

Life Science and Innovation Centers

Our life science and innovation centers contain laboratory and office space primarily for scientific research for universities, academic medical centers, technology, biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies and other organizations involved in the life science industry.  While these properties have characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, and heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops and related amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry or medical device research initiatives.  Our life science and innovation centers are primarily located on or contiguous to university and academic medical campuses. The campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants.








Skilled Nursing Facilities

Our skilled nursing facilities provide rehabilitative, restorative, skilled nursing and medical treatment for patients and residents who do not require the high technology, care-intensive, high cost setting of an acute care or rehabilitation hospital.  Treatment programs include physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and other therapies, including sub-acute clinical protocols such as wound care and intravenous drug treatment.  Charges for these services are generally paid from a combination of government reimbursement and private sources.

Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals

30of our properties are operated as LTACs.  LTACs have a Medicare average length of stay of greater than 25 days and serve medically complex, chronically ill patients who require a high level of monitoring and specialized care, but whose conditions do not necessitate the continued services of an intensive care unit.  The operators of these LTACs have the capability to treat patients who suffer from multiple systemic failures or conditions such as neurological disorders, head injuries, brain stem and spinal cord trauma, cerebral vascular accidents, chemical brain injuries, central nervous system disorders, developmental anomalies and cardiopulmonary disorders.  Chronic patients often depend on technology for continued life support, such as mechanical ventilators, total parenteral nutrition, respiration or cardiac monitors and dialysis machines, and, due to their severe medical conditions, generally are not clinically appropriate for admission to a nursing facility or rehabilitation hospital.  All of our LTACs are freestanding facilities, and we do not own any “hospitals within hospitals.”  We also own eight inpatient rehabilitation hospitals devoted to the rehabilitation of patients with various neurological, musculoskeletal, orthopedic and other medical conditions following stabilization of their acute medical issues.

General Acute Care Hospitals

12of our properties are operated as general acute care hospitals.  General acute care hospitals provide medical and surgical services, including inpatient care, intensive care, cardiac care, diagnostic services and emergency services. These hospitals also provide outpatient services such as outpatient surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory therapy, cardiology and physical therapy.  In the United States, these hospitals receive payments for patient services from the federal government primarily under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid or similar programs, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, other private insurers and directly from patients.

Geographic Diversification of Properties

Our portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties is broadly diversified by geographic location throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, with properties in onlyonestate (California) accounting for more than 10% of our total revenues and total net operating income (“NOI,” which is defined as total revenues, excluding interest and other income, less property-level operating expenses and office building services costs), in each case excluding amounts in discontinued operations, for the year endedDecember 31, 2016.








The following table shows our rental income and resident fees and services by geographic location for the year endedDecember 31, 2016:Rental Income andResident Fees andServices(1)Percent of TotalRevenues(1)(Dollars in thousands)Geographic LocationCalifornia$526,38815.3%New York302,3488.8Texas215,3706.3Illinois167,9074.9Florida153,5664.5Pennsylvania128,9373.7Georgia121,3723.5Arizona107,1603.1New Jersey94,6782.7Connecticut91,7122.7Other (36 states and the District of Columbia)1,212,89335.1Total U.S3,122,33190.6%Canada (7 provinces)174,8135.1United Kingdom26,3380.8Total$3,323,48296.5%(2)

(1)This presentation excludes revenues from properties included in discontinued operations during2016.

(2)The remainder of our total revenues is office building and other services revenue, income from loans and investments and interest and other income.

The following table shows our NOI by geographic location for the year endedDecember 31, 2016:NOI(1)(2)Percent of TotalNOI(1)(Dollars in thousands)Geographic LocationCalifornia$276,14713.8%New York117,1205.9Texas140,8987.0Illinois106,8315.3Florida90,7424.5Pennsylvania69,1553.5Indiana58,1812.9Arizona57,5192.9North Carolina54,7552.7New Mexico51,7442.6Other (36 states and the District of Columbia)867,26143.4Total U.S1,890,35394.5%Canada (7 provinces)83,8824.2United Kingdom26,3381.3Total$2,000,573100.0%

(1)This presentation excludes NOI from properties included in discontinued operations during2016.  See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—NOI” included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a reconciliation of NOI to our GAAP earnings.

(2)For a reconciliation of NOI to its most directly comparable GAAP measure, income from continuing operations, see “Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”








See “NOTE 19—SEGMENT INFORMATION” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the geographic diversification of our portfolio.

Loans and Investments

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we had$754.6 millionof net loans receivable and investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare operators or properties.  Our loans receivable and investments provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees and are typically secured by mortgage liens or leasehold mortgages on the underlying properties and corporate or personal guarantees by affiliates of the borrowing entity.  In some cases, the loans are secured by a pledge of ownership interests in the entity or entities that own the related seniors housing or healthcare properties. From time to time, we also make investments in mezzanine loans, which are subordinated to senior secured loans held by other investors that encumber the same real estate.  See “NOTE 6—LOANS RECEIVABLE AND INVESTMENTS” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Development and Redevelopment Projects

We are party to certain agreements that obligate us to develop seniors housing or healthcare properties funded through capital that we and, in certain circumstances, our joint venture partners provide.  As ofDecember 31, 2016, we hadsixproperties under development pursuant to these agreements, includingoneproperty that is owned by an unconsolidated real estate entity.  In addition, from time to time, we engage in redevelopment projects with respect to our existing seniors housing communities to maximize the value, increase NOI, maintain a market-competitive position, achieve property stabilization or change the primary use of the property.

Segment Information

We evaluate our operating performance and allocate resources based on three reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties; senior living operations; and office operations.  Non-segment assets, classified as “all other,” consist primarily of corporate assets, including cash, restricted cash, deferred financing costs, loans receivable and investments, and miscellaneous accounts receivable.  We evaluate performance of the combined properties in each reportable business segment based on segment NOI and related measures.  For further information regarding our business segments and a discussion of our definition of segment NOI, see “NOTE 19—SEGMENT INFORMATION” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Significant Tenants, Operators and Managers

The following table summarizes certain information regarding our tenant, operator and manager concentration as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2016(excluding properties classified as held for sale as ofDecember 31, 2016):Number ofProperties Leasedor ManagedPercent of Total Real Estate Investments(1)Percent of Total RevenuesPercent of NOISenior living operations(2)29833.9%53.6%30.2%Brookdale Senior Living(3)1408.14.88.3Kindred691.85.49.2Ardent105.13.15.3



(1)Based on gross book value.

(2)Excludesoneproperty owned through investments in unconsolidated entities.

(3)Excludessixproperties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities andoneproperty managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to a long-term management agreement.

Triple-Net Leased Properties

Each of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living, Kindred and Ardent is a triple-net lease that obligates the tenant to pay all property-related expenses, including maintenance, utilities, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures, and to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties.  In addition, each of our Brookdale Senior Living, Kindred and Ardent leases has a corporate guaranty.  Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred have multiple leases with us and those leases contain cross-default provisions tied to each other, as well as lease renewals by lease agreement or by pool of assets.

The properties we lease to Brookdale Senior Living, Kindred and Ardent accounted for a significant portion of our triple-net leased properties segment revenues and NOI for the year endedDecember 31, 2016.  If any of Brookdale Senior Living, Kindred or Ardent becomes unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations to us or to renew its leases with us upon








Brookdale Senior Living Leases

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we leased140properties (excludingsixproperties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities andoneproperty managed by Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to a long-term management agreement) to Brookdale Senior Living pursuant to multiple lease agreements.

Pursuant to our lease agreements, Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates annually at a specified rate over the prior period base rent.  As ofDecember 31, 2016, the aggregate2017contractual cash rent due to us from Brookdale Senior Living, excluding variable interest that Brookdale Senior Living is obligated to pay as additional rent based on certain floating rate mortgage debt, was approximately$178.8 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”)) due to us from Brookdale Senior Living, excluding the variable interest, was approximately$162.6 million(in each case, excludingsixproperties owned through investments in unconsolidated entities as ofDecember 31, 2016).  See “NOTE 3—CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK” and “NOTE 14—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Kindred Leases

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we leased68properties (excludingoneMOB) to Kindred pursuant to multiple lease agreements.  The properties leased pursuant to our Kindred master leases are grouped into bundles, or “renewal groups,” with each renewal group containing a varying number of geographically diversified properties.  All properties within a single renewal group have the same current lease term of five to 12 years, and each renewal group is currently subject to one or more successive five-year renewal terms at Kindred’s option, provided certain conditions are satisfied.  Kindred’s renewal option is “all or nothing” with respect to the properties contained in each renewal group.  In November 2016, Kindred extended the lease term to 2025 for all of our LTACs operated by Kindred that were scheduled to mature in 2018 and 2020, at the current rent level.

The aggregate annual rent we receive under each Kindred master lease is referred to as “base rent.”  Base rent escalates annually at a specified rate over the prior period base rent, contingent, in the case of the remaining three original Kindred master leases, upon the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters.  The annual rent escalator under two Kindred master leases is 2.7%, and the annual rent escalator under the other two Kindred master leases is based on year-over-year changes in CPI, subject to floors and caps.  As ofDecember 31, 2016, the aggregate2017contractual cash rent due to us from Kindred was approximately$170.1 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) due to us from Kindred was approximately$187.7 million.

Ardent Lease

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we leased ten hospital campuses to Ardent pursuant to a single, triple-net master lease agreement. Pursuant to our master lease agreement, Ardent is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates annually by the lesser of four times the increase in the consumer price index for the relevant period and 2.5%.  The initial term of the master lease expires on August 31, 2035 and Ardent has one ten-year renewal option.

As ofDecember 31, 2016, the aggregate2017contractual cash rent due to us from Ardent was approximately$109.2 million, and the current aggregate contractual base rent (computed in accordance with GAAP) due to us from Ardent was also approximately$109.2 million.








Senior Living Operations

As ofDecember 31, 2016, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to266seniors housing communities included in our senior living operations reportable business segment, for which we pay annual management fees pursuant to long-term management agreements.  Most of our management agreements with Atria have initial terms expiring either July 31, 2024 or December 31, 2027, with successive automatic ten-year renewal periods.  The management fees payable to Atria under most of the Atria management agreements range from 4.5% to 5% of revenues generated by the applicable properties, and Atria can earn up to an additional 1% of revenues based on the achievement of specified performance targets.  Most of our management agreements with Sunrise have terms ranging from 25 to 30 years (which commenced as early as 2004 and as recently as 2012).  The management fees payable to Sunrise under the Sunrise management agreements generally range from 5% to 7% of revenues generated by the applicable properties. See “NOTE 3—CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our34%ownership interest in Atria entitles us to certain rights and minority protections, as well as the right to appointtwoofsixmembers on the Atria Board of Directors.

Competition

We generally compete for investments in seniors housing and healthcare assets with publicly traded, private and non-listed healthcare REITs, real estate partnerships, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do.  Increased competition challenges our ability to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives, which is affected by, among other factors, the availability of suitable acquisition or investment targets, our ability to negotiate acceptable transaction terms and our access to and cost of capital.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our pursuit of investments in and acquisitions of, or our development or redevelopment of, seniors housing and healthcare assets may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and “NOTE 10—SENIOR NOTES PAYABLE AND OTHER DEBT” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our tenants, operators and managers also compete on a local and regional basis with other healthcare operating companies that provide comparable services.  Seniors housing community, skilled nursing facility and hospital operators compete to attract and retain residents and patients to our properties based on scope and quality of care, reputation and financial condition, price, location and physical appearance of the properties, services offered, qualified personnel, physician referrals and family preferences.  With respect to MOBs, we and our third-party managers compete to attract and retain tenants based on many of the same factors, in addition to quality of the affiliated health system, physician preferences and proximity to hospital campuses.  The ability of our tenants, operators and managers to compete successfully could be affected by private, federal and state reimbursement programs and other laws and regulations.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by healthcare regulation and enforcement” and “—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.








Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we had493employees, including263employees associated with our office operations reportable business segment, but excluding1,384employees at our Canadian seniors housing communities under the supervision and control of our independent managers.  Although the applicable manager is responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our Canadian seniors housing communities, we bear many of the costs and risks generally borne by employers, particularly with respect to those properties with unionized labor.  None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement, other than those employees in the Canadian seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise or Atria.  We believe that relations with our employees are positive.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our operating assets expose us to various operational risks, liabilities and claims that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues or increase our costs and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Insurance

We maintain or require in our lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations.  We believe that the amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and the policies required to be maintained by our tenants, operators and managers are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry.  Although we regularly monitor our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ compliance with their respective insurance requirements, we cannot assure you that they will maintain the required insurance coverages, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by our tenants, operators and managers to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  We also cannot assure you that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, that such insurance coverage will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the policies maintained will fully cover all losses related to our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event, nor can we assure you of the future financial viability of the insurers.

We maintain the property insurance for all of our senior living operations, as well as the general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations managed by Atria.  However, Sunrise maintains the general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations that it manages in accordance with the terms of our management agreements.  Under our management agreements with Sunrise, we may elect, on an annual basis, whether we or Sunrise will bear responsibility for maintaining the required insurance coverage for the applicable properties, but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains the insurance.

Through our office operations, we provide engineering, construction and architectural services in connection with new development projects, and any design, construction or systems failures related to the properties we develop could result in substantial injury or damage to our clients or third parties.  Any such injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed projects.  Although we maintain liability insurance to protect us against these claims, if any claim results in a loss, we cannot assure you that our policy limits would be adequate to cover the loss in full.  If we sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to pay the difference and we could lose our investment in, or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

For various reasons, including to reduce and manage costs, many healthcare companies utilize different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or captive programs that may provide less coverage than a traditional insurance policy.  As a result, companies that self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  The implementation of a trust or captive by any of our tenants, operators or managers could adversely affect such person’s ability to satisfy its obligations under, or otherwise comply with the terms of, its respective lease, management and other agreements with us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  Likewise, if we decide to implement a captive or self-insurance program, any large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses that we incur could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.

Additional Information

We maintain a website at www.ventasreit.com.  The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.

We make available, free of charge, through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  In addition, our Guidelines on Governance, our Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (including waivers from and








amendments to that document) and the charters for each of our Audit and Compliance, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Executive Compensation Committees are available on our website, and we will mail copies of the foregoing documents to stockholders, free of charge, upon request to our Corporate Secretary at Ventas, Inc., 353 North Clark Street, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois 60654.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

Healthcare Regulation

Overview

Healthcare is a highly regulated industry and we expect that trend will, in general, continue in the future.  Our tenants, operators and managers are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to quality of care, licensure and certificate of need, government reimbursement, fraud and abuse practices, qualifications of personnel, adequacy of plant and equipment, and other laws and regulations governing the operation of healthcare facilities. The applicable rules are wide-ranging and can subject our tenants, operators and managers to civil, criminal, and administrative sanctions, including:  the possible loss of accreditation or license; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs; or facility closure.  Changes in laws or regulations, reimbursement policies, enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by tenants, operators and managers can all have a significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The recent U.S. presidential election, coupled with a Republican-controlled Congress, makes the repeal of the Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) a possibility.  Beyond this, significant changes to commercial health insurance, Medicare and Medicaid are all possible.  Government payors, such as the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs, as well as  private insurance carriers (including health maintenance organizations and other health plans), are likely to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls upon operators (through changes in reimbursement rates and methodologies, discounted fee structures, the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk or otherwise). A shift toward less comprehensive health insurance coverage and increased consumer cost-sharing on health expenditures could have a material adverse effect on certain of our operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.

Licensure, Certification and CONs

In general, the operators of our hospitals and skilled nursing facilities must be licensed and periodically certified through various regulatory agencies that determine compliance with federal, state and local laws to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Legal requirements pertaining to such licensure and certification relate to the quality of medical care provided by the operator, qualifications of the operator’s administrative personnel and clinical staff, adequacy of the physical plant and equipment and continuing compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  A loss of licensure or certification could adversely affect a hospital or skilled nursing facility operator’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its obligations to us.

In addition, many of our skilled nursing facilities are subject to state CON laws that require governmental approval prior to the development or expansion of healthcare facilities and services. The approval process in these states generally requires a facility to demonstrate the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. CONs, where applicable, are also sometimes necessary for changes in ownership or control of licensed facilities, addition of beds, investment in major capital equipment, introduction of new services or termination of services previously approved through the CON process. CON laws and regulations may restrict an operator’s ability to expand our properties and grow its business in certain circumstances, which could have an adverse effect on the operator’s revenues and, in turn, its ability to make rental payments under and otherwise comply with the terms of our leases. See “Risk Factors-Risks Arising from Our Business-If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

State CON laws remained largely unchanged in 2016, with the exceptions of New Hampshire and Tennessee.  New Hampshire repealed its CON laws, effective June 30, 2016.  Tennessee, on the other hand, deleted or liberalized several services from its CON requirements while adding others.  Among the additions to CON requirements, hospitals in Tennessee are now required to obtain a CON when seeking to create a satellite emergency department, as well as prior to starting an organ donation/organ transplant service.

Compared to hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, seniors housing communities (other than those that receive








Medicaid payments) do not receive significant funding from governmental healthcare programs and are subject to relatively few, if any, federal regulations. Instead, to the extent they are regulated, such regulation consists primarily of state and local laws governing licensure, provision of services, staffing requirements and other operational matters, which vary greatly from one jurisdiction to another. Although recent growth in the U.S. seniors housing industry has attracted the attention of various federal agencies that believe more federal regulation of these properties is necessary, Congress thus far has deferred to state regulation of seniors housing communities. However, as a result of this growth and increased federal scrutiny, some states have revised and strengthened their regulation of seniors housing communities, and more states are expected to do the same in the future.

As discussed in greater detail below, a number of states have instituted Medicaid waiver programs that blend the functions of healthcare and custodial care providers, and expand the scope of services that can be provided under certain licenses. The trend toward this kind of experimentation is likely to continue, and even hasten, under current political leadership.  The temporary and experimental nature of these programs means that states will also continue to adjust their licensing and certification processes, which may result in some of our operators facing increased competition and others facing new requirements.

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement

Skilled nursing facilities, hospitals and senior housing communities that receive Medicaid payments are subject to various complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibit fraudulent and abusive business practices.  These laws and regulations include, among others:

•Federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit healthcare providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs;

•Federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment, receipt or solicitation of any remuneration to induce referrals of patients for items or services covered by a governmental healthcare program, including Medicare and Medicaid;

•Federal and state physician self-referral laws, including the federal Stark Law, which generally prohibits physicians from referring patients enrolled in certain governmental healthcare programs to providers of certain designated health services in which the referring physician or an immediate family member of the referring physician  has an ownership or other financial interest;

•The federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent acts; and

•State and federal data privacy and security laws, including the privacy and security rules of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which provide for the privacy and security of certain individually identifiable health information.



Violating these healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations may result in criminal and civil penalties, such as punitive sanctions, damage assessments, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments, and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The responsibility for enforcing these laws and regulations lies with a variety or federal, state and local governmental agencies, however they can also be enforced by private litigants through federal and state false claims acts and other laws that allow private individuals to bring whistleblower suits known asqui tamactions.

Congress has significantly increased funding to the governmental agencies charged with enforcing the healthcare fraud and abuse laws to facilitate increased audits, investigations and prosecutions of providers suspected of healthcare fraud.  As a result, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against healthcare providers have increased significantly in recent years and are expected to continue.  A violation of federal or state anti-fraud and abuse laws or regulations by an operator of our properties could have a material adverse effect on the operator’s liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.

It is too early to know whether the new presidential administration will expand on these efforts, but it is likely that states will devote additional resources to Medicaid fraud, waste, and abuse initiatives. Medicaid reform plans may include lowering the growth rate of Medicaid spending, which will put pressure on states to exert greater scrutiny over the utilization of services.








Medicare’s fraud, waste, and abuse initiatives will also likely be retooled during the new presidential administration. A backlog of provider appeals in response to Medicare audits may require the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) to consider more expedited and conservative methods for determining recovery amounts. The Recovery Audit Contractor program, which has recovered more than $2 billion for the Medicare program, continues to be controversial and may be modified under the new administration. Finally, the growth of value- based reimbursement models in Medicare may result in new rules regarding physician ownership of other providers, provider referrals, and provider affiliated charities buying down the cost of care for certain consumers. In total, Medicare program integrity might be less of a focus of the new administration, but there will be policy changes and as yet unknown pockets of increased oversight that are expected to create new risks for operators of healthcare facilities.

Reimbursement

The majority of skilled nursing facilities reimbursement, and a significant percentage of hospital reimbursement, is through Medicare and Medicaid.  Medical buildings and other healthcare related properties have provider tenants that participate in Medicare and Medicaid.  These programs are often their largest source of funding.  Seniors housing communities generally do not receive funding from Medicare or Medicaid, but their ability to retain their residents is impacted by policy decisions and initiatives established by the administrators of Medicare and Medicaid.  The passage of the ACA in 2010 allowed formerly uninsured Americans to acquire coverage and utilize additional health care services.  In addition, the ACA gave the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services new authorities to implement Medicaid waiver and pilot programs that impact healthcare and long term custodial care reimbursement by Medicare and Medicaid.  These activities promote “aging in place”, allowing senior citizens to stay longer in seniors housing communities, and diverting or delaying their admission into skilled nursing facilities.  The potential risks that accompany these regulatory and market changes are discussed below.

•As a result of the ACA, and specifically Medicaid expansion and establishment of health insurance exchanges providing subsidized health insurance, an estimated seventeen million more Americans have health insurance than in 2010.  These newly-insured Americans utilize services delivered by providers at medical buildings and other healthcare facilities.  The new presidential administration and Republican-controlled Congress are committed to repealing the ACA and replacing it with a less federalized model for providing health insurance to individuals and families unable to purchase health insurance on their own.  The details of the replacement model are not yet known, but potential end results could be fewer insured individuals and families or individuals and families maintaining less comprehensive insurance coverage.  Either outcome could adversely impact the resources of our operators.



•Enabled by the Medicare Modernization Act (2003) and subsequent laws, Medicare and Medicaid have implemented pilot programs (officially termed demonstrations or models) to “divert” elderly from skilled nursing facilitates and promote “aging in place” in “the least restrictive environment.”  Several states have implemented home and community-based Medicaid waiver programs that increase the support services available to senior citizens in senior housing, lengthening the time that many seniors can live outside of a skilled nursing facility. These Medicaid waiver programs are subject to re-approval and pilots are time-limited. The new presidential administration may be generally supportive of these programs, but it is nonetheless likely that particular initiatives will gain or lose favor, and certain current initiatives might come to an end or be modified.



•CMS is currently in the midst of transitioning Medicare from a traditional fee for service reimbursement model to capitated, value-based, and bundled payment approaches in which the government pays a set amount for each beneficiary for a defined period of time, based on that person’s underlying medical needs, rather than the actual services provided.  The result is increasing use of management tools to oversee individual providers and coordinate their services.  This puts downward pressure on the number and expense of services provided.  Roughly eight million Medicare beneficiaries now receive care via accountable care organizations, and another 18 million are enrolled in Medicare Advantage health plans.  The continued trend toward capitated, value-based, and bundled payment approaches has the potential diminish the market for certain healthcare providers, particularly specialist physicians and providers of particular diagnostic technologies such medical resonance imaging services.  This could adversely impact the medical properties that house these physicians and medical technology providers.



•The majority of Medicare payments continue to be made through traditional Medicare Part A and Part B fee-for-service schedules.  Medicare’s payment regulations, particularly with respect to certain hospitals, skilled nursing care, and home health services have resulted in lower net pay increases than providers of those services often desire.  In addition, the Medicare and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 establishes a multi-year transition into pay-for-quality approaches for Medicare physicians and other providers.  This will include payment reductions for providers who do not meet government quality standards.  The implementation of pay-for-quality models is








expected to produce funding disparities that could adversely impact some provider tenants in medical buildings and other health care properties.



For the year endedDecember 31, 2016, approximately9.2%of our total revenues and15.0%of our total NOI (in each case excluding amounts in discontinued operations) were attributable to skilled nursing facilities and hospitals in which our third-party tenants receive reimbursement for their services under governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.  We are neither a participant in, nor a direct recipient of, any reimbursement under these programs with respect to those leased facilities.

Life Science and Innovation Centers

In 2016, we entered the life science and innovation sector (“life science”) through the Life Sciences Acquisition.  The life science tenants of these assets are largely university-affiliated organizations.  These university-affiliated life science tenants are dependent on government funding to varying degrees.  Creating a new pharmaceutical product or medical device requires substantial investments of time and capital, in part because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance.  Therefore, our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty.

Environmental Regulation

As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health and safety matters.

These laws and regulations address, among other things, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, fuel oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions, radioactive materials, medical wastes, and hazardous wastes, and, in certain cases, the costs of complying with these laws and regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be substantial. With respect to our properties that are operated or managed by third parties, we may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property from which there is or has been an actual or threatened release of a regulated material and any other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release. Such costs typically are not limited by law or regulation and could exceed the property’s value. In addition, we may be liable for certain other costs, such as governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources, as a result of any such actual or threatened release. See “Risk Factors-Risks Arising from Our Business-We could incur substantial liabilities and costs if any of our properties are found to be contaminated with hazardous substances or we become involved in any environmental disputes” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Under the terms of our lease, management and other agreements, we generally have a right to indemnification by the tenants, operators and managers of our properties for any contamination caused by them. However, we cannot assure you that our tenants, operators and managers will have the financial capability or willingness to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness to do so may require us to satisfy the underlying environmental claims.

In general, we have also agreed to indemnify our tenants and operators against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or relating to, the leased properties at any time before the applicable lease commencement date. With respect to our senior living operating portfolio, we have agreed to indemnify our managers against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean- up costs) resulting from any condition on those properties, unless the manager caused or contributed to that condition.

We did not make any material capital expenditures in connection with environmental, health, and safety laws, ordinances and regulations in2016and do not expect that we will be required to make any such material capital expenditures during2017.

Canada

In Canada, seniors housing communities are currently generally subject to significantly less regulation than skilled nursing facilities and hospitals, and the regulation of such facilities is principally a matter of provincial and municipal jurisdiction. As a result, the regulatory regimes that apply to seniors housing communities vary depending on the province (and in certain circumstances, the city) in which a facility is located. Recently, certain Canadian provinces have taken steps to implement regulatory measures that could result in enhanced regulation for seniors housing communities in such provinces.








CERTAIN U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS



The following discussion summarizes certain U.S. federal income tax considerations that may be relevant to you as a holder of our stock.  It is not tax advice, nor does it purport to address all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be important to particular stockholders in light of their personal circumstances or to certain types of stockholders, such as insurance companies, tax-exempt organizations (except to the extent discussed below under “Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders”), financial institutions, pass-through entities (or investors in such entities) or broker-dealers, and non-U.S. individuals and entities (except to the extent discussed below under “Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders”), that may be subject to special rules.

The statements in this section are based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), U.S. Treasury Regulations, Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) rulings, administrative interpretations and judicial decisions now in effect, all of which are subject to change or different interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect.  The laws governing the U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and their stockholders are highly technical and complex, and this discussion is qualified in its entirety by the authorities listed above.  We cannot assure you that new laws, interpretations of law or court decisions will not cause any statement herein to be inaccurate.

Federal Income Taxation of Ventas



We elected REIT status beginning with the year ended December 31, 1999.  We believe that we have satisfied the requirements to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes for all tax years starting in 1999, and we intend to continue to do so.  By qualifying for taxation as a REIT, we generally are not subject to federal income tax on net income that we currently distribute to stockholders, which substantially eliminates the “double taxation” (i.e., taxation at both the corporate and stockholder levels) that results from investment in a C corporation (i.e., a corporation generally subject to full corporate-level tax).  Our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet the various qualification tests imposed under the Code, which are discussed below, including through actual operating results, asset composition, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership.

Notwithstanding such qualification, we are subject to federal income tax on any undistributed taxable income, including undistributed net capital gains, at regular corporate rates.  In addition, we are subject to a 4% excise tax if we do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements.  See “Requirements for Qualification as a REIT-Annual Distribution Requirements.”  Under certain circumstances, we may be subject to the “alternative minimum tax” on our undistributed items of tax preference.  If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” (as described below) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or certain other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on that income.  See “Requirements for Qualification as a REIT-Foreclosure Property.”  In addition, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions” (which are, in general, certain sales or other dispositions of property (other than foreclosure property) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business), that income is subject to a 100% tax.

We also may be subject to “Built-in Gains Tax” on any appreciated asset that we own or acquire that was previously owned by a C corporation.  If we dispose of any such asset and recognize gain on the disposition during the five-year period immediately after the asset was owned by a C corporation (either prior to our REIT election, or through stock acquisition or merger), then we generally are subject to regular corporate income tax on the gain equal to the lesser of the recognized gain at the time of disposition or the built-in gain in that asset as of the date it became a REIT asset.  Certain exceptions may apply if the C corporation makes an election to receive different treatment or if we acquired the asset in an exchange under Section 1031 (a like-kind exchange) or 1033 (an involuntary conversion) of the Code.

If we fail to satisfy either of the gross income tests for qualification as a REIT (as discussed below), but maintain such qualification under the relief provisions of the Code, we will be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable test, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. In addition, if we violate one or more of the REIT asset tests (as discussed below), we may avoid a loss of our REIT status if we qualify under certain relief provisions and, among other things, pay a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying asset during a specified period.  If we fail to satisfy any requirement for REIT qualification, other than the gross income or assets tests mentioned above, but maintain such qualification by meeting certain other requirements, we may be subject to a $50,000 penalty for each failure.  Finally, we will incur a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary (including rental income derived from leasing properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary) that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis.








See “Requirements for Qualification as a REIT” below for other circumstances in which we may be required to pay federal taxes.

Requirements for Qualification as a REIT



To qualify as a REIT, we must meet the requirements discussed below relating to our organization, sources of income, nature of assets and distributions of income to our stockholders.

Organizational Requirements



The Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association: (i) that is managed by one or more directors or trustees; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) that would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for Sections 856 through 859 of the Code; (iv) that is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code; (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (the “100 Shareholder Rule”); (vi) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year (the “5/50 Rule”); (vii) that makes an election to be a REIT (or has made such election for a prior taxable year) and satisfies all relevant filing and other administrative requirements established by the IRS that must be met in order to elect and to maintain REIT status; (viii) that uses a calendar year for federal income tax purposes; and (ix) that meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income and assets and the amount of its distributions.

We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have satisfied and will continue to satisfy the organizational requirements for qualification as a REIT. Although our certificate of incorporation contains certain limits on the ownership of our stock that are intended to prevent us from failing the 5/50 Rule or the 100 Shareholder Rule, we cannot assure you as to the effectiveness of those limits.

To qualify as a REIT, a corporation also may not have (as of the end of the taxable year) any earnings and profits that were accumulated in periods before it elected REIT status or that are from acquired non-REIT corporations. We believe that we have not had any accumulated earnings and profits that are attributable to non-REIT periods or from acquired corporations that were not REITs, although the IRS is entitled to challenge that determination.

Gross Income Tests



We must satisfy two annual gross income requirements to qualify as a REIT:

•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions, certain hedging transactions and certain foreign currency gains) for each taxable year must consist of defined types of income derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property (including pledges of equity interest in certain entities holding real property and also including “rents from real property” (as defined in the Code)) and, in certain circumstances, interest on certain types of temporary investment income; and



•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions, certain hedging transactions and certain foreign currency gains) for each taxable year must be derived from such real property or temporary investments, dividends, interest and gains from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, or from any combination of the foregoing.



We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with these gross income tests.  If we fail to satisfy one or both tests for any taxable year, we nevertheless may qualify as a REIT for that year if we qualify under certain relief provisions of the Code, in which case we would be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable test, multiplied by a percentage intended to reflect our profitability.  If we fail to satisfy one or both tests and do not qualify under the relief provisions for any taxable year, we will not qualify as a REIT for that year, which would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.








Rents we receive from a tenant will qualify as “rents from real property” for the purpose of satisfying the gross income requirements for a REIT described above only if all of the following conditions are met:



•The amount of rent is not based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person. However, an amount we receive or accrue generally will not be excluded from the term “rents from real property” solely because it is based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales;



•Neither we nor an actual or constructive owner of 10% or more of our stock actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the interests in the assets or net profits of a non-corporate tenant, or, if the tenant is a corporation, 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote or 10% or more of the total value of all classes of stock of the tenant, subject to limited exceptions for a tenant that is a taxable REIT subsidiary, or “TRS”;



•Rent attributable to personal property, leased in connection with a lease of real property, is not greater than 15% of the total rent received under the lease. If this condition is not met, then the portion of the rent attributable to personal property will not qualify as “rents from real property”;  and



•We generally may not operate or manage the property or furnish or render services to our tenants, subject to a 1% de minimis exception and certain other exceptions.



Asset Tests



At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must satisfy the following tests relating to the nature of our assets:

•At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by cash or cash items (including certain receivables), government securities, “real estate assets” (including interests in real property and in mortgages on real property and shares in other qualifying REITs) (for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, the term “real estate assets” also includes (i) unsecured debt instruments of REITs that are required to file annual and periodic reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act (“Publicly Offered REITs”) (ii) personal property securing a mortgage secured by both real property and personal property if the fair market value of such personal property does not exceed 15% of the combined fair market value of all such personal and real property and (iii) personal property leased in connection with a lease of real property for which the rent attributable to personal property is not greater than 15% of the total rent received under the lease) or, in cases where we raise new capital through stock or long-term (i.e., having a maturity of at least five years) public debt offerings, temporary investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following our receipt of such capital (the “75% asset test”); and



•Of the investments not meeting the requirements of the 75% asset test, the value of any single issuer’s debt and equity securities that we own (other than our equity interests in any entity classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the stock or debt of a taxable REIT subsidiary or the stock or debt of a qualified REIT subsidiary or other disregarded entity subsidiary) may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets (the “5% asset test”), and we may not own more than 10% of any single issuer’s outstanding voting securities (the “10% voting securities test”) or more than 10% of the value of any single issuer’s outstanding securities (the “10% value test”), subject to limited “safe harbor” exceptions.



•No more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “25% TRS Test” or after December 31, 2017, the “20% TRS Test”).



•For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, the aggregate value of all unsecured debt instruments of Publicly Offered REITs that we hold may not exceed 25% of the value of our total assets.”



We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with the asset tests described above. If we fail to satisfy one or more asset tests at the end of any quarter, we nevertheless may continue to qualify as a REIT if we satisfied all of the asset tests at the close of the preceding calendar quarter and the discrepancy between the value of our assets and the asset test requirements is due to changes in the market values and not caused in any part by our acquisition of non-qualifying assets.








Foreclosure Property



The foreclosure property rules permit us (by our election) to foreclose or repossess properties without being disqualified as a REIT as a result of receiving income that does not qualify under the gross income tests. However, in such a case, we would be subject to a corporate tax on the net non-qualifying income from “foreclosure property,” and the after-tax amount would increase the dividends we would be required to distribute to stockholders. See “Annual Distribution Requirements”.  This corporate tax would not apply to income that qualifies under the REIT 75% income test.

Foreclosure property treatment will end on the first day on which we enter into a lease of the applicable property that will give rise to income that does not constitute “good REIT income” under Section 856(c)(3) of the Code, but will not end if the lease will give rise only to good REIT income. Foreclosure property treatment also will end if any construction takes place on the property (other than completion of a building or other improvement that was more than 10% complete before default became imminent). Foreclosure property treatment (other than for qualified healthcare property) is available for an initial period of three years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional three years. Foreclosure property treatment for qualified healthcare property is available for an initial period of two years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional four years.

Taxable REIT Subsidiaries



A TRS is a corporation subject to tax as a regular C corporation. Generally, a TRS can own assets that cannot be owned by a REIT directly and can perform tenant services (excluding the direct or indirect operation or management of a lodging or healthcare facility) that would otherwise disqualify the REIT’s rental income under the gross income tests. Notwithstanding general restrictions on related party rent, a REIT can lease healthcare properties to a TRS if the TRS does not manage or operate the properties and instead engages an eligible independent contractor to manage them. We are permitted to own up to 100% of a TRS, subject to the 25% TRS Test (or 20% TRS Test, as applicable) but the Code imposes certain limits on the ability of the TRS to deduct interest payments made to us. In addition, we are subject to a 100% penalty tax on any excess payments received by us or any excess expenses deducted by the TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties.

Annual Distribution Requirements



In order to be taxed as a REIT, we are required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to our stockholders in an amount at least equal to the sum of (i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income (after tax), if any, from foreclosure property, minus the sum of certain items of non-cash income. These dividends must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, but may be paid in the following taxable year if (i) they are declared in October, November or December, payable to stockholders of record on a specified date in one of those months and actually paid during January of such following year or (ii) they are declared before we timely file our tax return for such year and paid on or before the first regular dividend payment after such declaration, and we elect on our federal income tax return for the prior year to have a specified amount of the subsequent dividend treated as paid in the prior year. To the extent we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our REIT taxable income, as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular capital gains and ordinary corporate tax rates, except to the extent of our net operating loss or capital loss carryforwards. If we pay any








Built-in Gains Taxes, those taxes will be deductible in computing REIT taxable income. Moreover, if we fail to distribute during each calendar year (or, in the case of distributions with declaration and record dates falling in the last three months of the calendar year, by the end of January following such year) at least the sum of 85% of our REIT ordinary income for such year, 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than long-term capital gain we elect to retain and treat as having been distributed to stockholders), and any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over the amounts actually distributed.

We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for the year of our initial REIT election and each subsequent year through the year endedDecember 31, 2016.  Although we intend to satisfy the annual distribution requirements to continue to qualify as a REIT for the year ending December 31,2017and thereafter, economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations could limit our ability to meet those requirements.

We have net operating loss carryforwards that we may use to reduce our annual distribution requirements. See “NOTE 13—INCOME TAXES” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Failure to Continue to Qualify



If we fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT qualification, other than by violating a gross income or asset test for which relief is available under the circumstances described above, we would retain our REIT qualification if the failure is due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect and if we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each such failure. We cannot predict whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of this relief provision.

If our election to be taxed as a REIT is revoked or terminated in any taxable year (e.g., due to a failure to meet the REIT qualification tests without qualifying for any applicable relief provisions), we would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (for all open tax years beginning with the year our REIT election is revoked or terminated), and we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders, nor would we be entitled to deduct any such distributions. All distributions to stockholders (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits) would be taxable as ordinary income, except to the extent such dividends are eligible for the qualified dividends rate generally available to non-corporate holders, and, subject to certain limitations, corporate stockholders would be eligible for the dividends received deduction. In addition, we would be prohibited from re-electing REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions of the Code applied. We cannot predict whether we would be entitled to such relief.

New Partnership Audit Rules

The recently enacted Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 changes the rules applicable to U.S. federal income tax audits of partnerships. Under the new rules (which are generally effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017), among other changes and subject to certain exceptions, any audit adjustment to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit of a partnership (and any partner’s distributive share thereof) is determined, and taxes, interest, or penalties attributable thereto are assessed and collected, at the partnership level. Although it is uncertain how these new rules will be implemented, it is possible that they could result in partnerships in which we directly or indirect invest being required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties as a result of an audit adjustment, and we, as a direct or indirect partner of these partnerships, could be required to bear the economic burden of those taxes, interest, and penalties even though we, as a REIT, may not otherwise have been required to pay additional corporate-level taxes had we owned the assets of the partnership directly. The changes created by these new rules are sweeping and in many respects dependent on the promulgation of future regulations or other guidance by the U.S. Treasury. You should consult with your tax advisors with respect to these changes and their potential impact on your investment in our common stock.

Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Stockholders



As used in this discussion, the term “U.S. Stockholder” refers to any beneficial owner of our stock that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, an estate the income of which must be included in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes regardless of its source, or a trust if (i) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. persons have authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (ii) the trust has elected under applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations to retain its pre-August 20, 1996 classification as a U.S. person. If an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds our stock, the tax treatment of a partner in the partnership will generally depend on the status of the partner and the activities of








the partnership. Partners in partnerships holding our stock should consult their tax advisors. This section assumes the U.S. Stockholder holds our stock as a capital asset (that is, for investment).

We may elect to treat all or a part of our undistributed net capital gain as if it had been distributed to our stockholders. If we so elect, our U.S. Stockholders would be required to include in their income as long-term capital gain their proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain, as designated by us. Each U.S. Stockholder would be deemed to have paid its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such undistributed net capital gain, and this amount would be credited or refunded to the U.S. Stockholder. In addition, the U.S. Stockholder’s tax basis of our stock would be increased by its proportionate share of undistributed net capital gains included in its income, less its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such gains.

U.S. Stockholders may not include in their individual income tax returns any of our net operating losses or net capital losses. Instead, we may carry over those losses for potential offset against our future income, subject to certain limitations. Taxable distributions from us and gain from the disposition of our stock will not be treated as passive activity income, and, therefore, U.S. Stockholders generally will not be able to apply any “passive activity losses” (such as losses from certain types of limited partnerships in which the U.S. Stockholder is a limited partner) against such income. In addition, taxable distributions from us generally will be treated as investment income for purposes of the investment interest limitations.

We will notify stockholders after the close of our taxable year as to the portions of the distributions attributable to that year that constitute ordinary income, return of capital and capital gain. To the extent that a portion of the distribution is designated as a capital gain dividend, we will notify stockholders as to the portion that is a “20% rate gain distribution” and the portion that is an unrecaptured Section 1250 distribution. A 20% rate gain distribution is a capital gain distribution to U.S. Stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts that is taxable at a maximum rate of 20%. An unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution is taxable to U.S. Stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%.

Taxation of U.S. Stockholders on the Disposition of Shares of Stock



In general, a U.S. Stockholder must treat any gain or loss realized upon a taxable disposition of our stock as long-term capital gain or loss if the U.S. Stockholder has held the stock for more than one year, and otherwise as short-term capital gain or loss. However, a U.S. Stockholder must treat any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock held for six months or less as a long-term capital loss to the extent of capital gain dividends and any other actual or deemed distributions from us which the U.S. Stockholder treats as long-term capital gain. All or a portion of any loss that a U.S. Stockholder realizes upon a taxable disposition of our stock may be disallowed if the U.S. Stockholder purchases other shares of our stock (or certain options to acquire our stock) within 30 days before or after the disposition.

Medicare Tax on Investment Income



Certain U.S. Stockholders who are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds are required to pay a 3.8% Medicare tax on dividends and certain other investment income, including capital gains from the sale or other disposition of our stock.








Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders



Tax-exempt organizations, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts (collectively, “Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation but are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). While many investments in real estate generate UBTI, a ruling published by the IRS states that dividend distributions by a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI. Based on that ruling, and subject to the exceptions discussed below, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of our stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the “debt-financed property” rules. Social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans that are exempt from taxation under paragraphs (7), (9), (17) and (20), respectively, of Section 501(c) of the Code are subject to different UBTI rules, which generally require them to characterize distributions from us as UBTI, and in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a percentage of the dividends from us as UBTI.

Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders



As used herein, the term “Non-U.S. Stockholder” refers to any beneficial owner of our stock that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a nonresident alien individual, foreign corporation, foreign estate or foreign trust, but does not include any foreign stockholder whose investment in our stock is “effectively connected” with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Such a foreign stockholder, in general, is subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to its investment in our stock in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals), provided that, if required by an applicable income tax treaty, the foreign stockholder maintains a permanent establishment in the United States to which such income is attributable. In addition, a foreign corporation receiving income that is treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business also may be subject to an additional 30% “branch profits tax” on its effectively connected earnings and profits (subject to adjustments) unless an applicable tax treaty provides a lower rate or an exemption. Certain certification requirements must be satisfied in order for effectively connected income to be exempt from withholding.

Distributions to Non-U.S. Stockholders that are not attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests and are not designated by us as capital gain dividends (or deemed distributions of retained capital gains) are treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Such distributions ordinarily are subject to a withholding tax equal to 30% of the gross amount of the distribution unless an applicable tax treaty reduces or eliminates that tax. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits are not taxable to a Non-U.S. Stockholder to the extent that such distributions do not exceed the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s adjusted basis of our stock (determined on a share-by-share basis), but rather reduce the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s adjusted basis of our stock. To the extent that distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s adjusted basis of our stock, such distributions will give rise to tax liability if the Non-U.S. Stockholder would otherwise be subject to tax on any gain from the sale or disposition of our stock, as described below.

We expect to withhold U.S. tax at the rate of 30% on the gross amount of any dividends, other than dividends treated as attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests and capital gain dividends, paid to a Non-U.S. Stockholder, unless (i) a lower treaty rate applies and the required IRS Form W-8BEN or IRS Form W-8BEN-E (or other applicable documentation) evidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is filed with us or the appropriate withholding agent or (ii) the Non-U.S. Stockholder files an IRS Form W-8ECI or a successor form with us or the appropriate withholding agent properly claiming that the distributions are effectively connected with the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

For any year in which we qualify as a REIT, distributions to a Non-U.S. Stockholder that owns more than 10% of our shares (assuming our shares are regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States) at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of distribution and that are attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests will be taxed to the Non-U.S. Stockholder under the provisions of the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if such gain were effectively connected with a U.S. business. Accordingly, a Non-U.S. Stockholder that owns more than 10% of our shares (assuming our shares are regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States) will be taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. Stockholder (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals) and would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return. Distributions subject to FIRPTA also may be subject to a branch profits tax equal to 30% of its effectively connected earnings and profits (subject to adjustments) if the recipient is a corporate Non-U.S. Stockholder not entitled to treaty relief or exemption. Under FIRPTA, we are required to withhold 35% (which is higher than the maximum rate on long-term capital gains of non-corporate persons) of any distribution to a Non-U.S.








Stockholder that owns more than 10% of our shares which is or could be designated as a capital gain dividend attributable to U.S. real property interests. Moreover, if we designate previously made distributions as capital gain dividends attributable to U.S. real property interests, subsequent distributions (up to the amount of such prior distributions) will be treated as capital gain dividends subject to FIRPTA withholding. This amount is creditable against the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s FIRPTA tax liability.

Distributions by us to a “qualified foreign pension fund,” within the meaning of Section 897(l) of the Code (“Qualified Foreign Pension Fund”), or any entity all of the interests of which are held by a Qualified Foreign Pension Fund, is exempt from FIRPTA, but may nonetheless be subject to U.S. federal dividend withholding tax unless an applicable tax treaty or Section 892 of the Code provides an exemption from such dividend withholding tax. Non-U.S. Stockholders who are Qualified Foreign Pension Funds should consult their tax advisors regarding the application of these rules.

If a Non-U.S. Stockholder does not own more than 10% of our shares at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of a distribution (assuming our shares are regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States), any capital gain distributions, to the extent attributable to sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests, will not be considered to be effectively connected with a U.S. business, and the Non-U.S. Stockholder would not be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return solely as a result of receiving such a distribution. In that case, the distribution will be treated as an ordinary dividend to that Non-U.S. Stockholder and taxed as an ordinary dividend that is not a capital gain distribution (and subject to withholding), as described above. In addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to the distribution. Any capital gain distribution, to the extent not attributable to sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests, generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation (regardless of the amount of our shares owned by a Non-U.S. Stockholder).

For so long as our stock continues to be regularly traded on an established securities market, the sale of such stock by any Non-U.S. Stockholder who is not a Ten Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder (as defined below) generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax (unless the Non-U.S. Stockholder is a nonresident alien individual who was present in the United States for more than 182 days during the taxable year of the sale and certain other conditions apply, in which case such gain (net of certain sources within the U.S., if any) will be subject to a 30% tax on a gross basis). A “Ten Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder” is a Non-U.S. Stockholder who, at some time during the five-year period preceding such sale or disposition, beneficially owned (including under certain attribution rules) more than 10% of the total fair market value of our stock (as outstanding from time to time).

Special rules apply to certain collective investment funds that are “qualified shareholders” as defined in Section 897(k)(3) of the Code of a REIT.  Such investors, which include publicly traded vehicles that meet certain requirements, should consult with their own tax advisors prior to making an investment in our shares.

Additional Withholding Tax on Payments Made to Foreign Accounts



A 30% withholding tax will currently be imposed on dividends paid on our stock and will be imposed on gross proceeds from a sale or redemption of our stock paid after December 31, 2018 to (i) foreign financial institutions including non-U.S. investment funds, unless they agree to collect and disclose to the IRS information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. account holders and (ii) certain other foreign entities, unless they certify certain information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. owners.  To avoid withholding, foreign financial institutions will need to (i) enter into agreements with the IRS that state that they will provide the IRS information, including the names, addresses and taxpayer identification numbers of direct and indirect U.S. account holders, comply with due diligence procedures with respect to the identification of U.S. accounts, report








to the IRS certain information with respect to U.S. accounts maintained, agree to withhold tax on certain payments made to non-compliant foreign financial institutions or to account holders who fail to provide the required information, and determine certain other information as to their account holders, or (ii) in the event that an applicable intergovernmental agreement and implementing legislation are adopted, provide local revenue authorities with similar account holder information or otherwise comply with the terms of the intergovernmental agreement and implementing legislation. Other foreign entities will need to either provide the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of each substantial U.S. owner or certifications of no substantial U.S. ownership unless certain exceptions apply or agree to provide certain information to other revenue authorities for transmittal to the IRS.

Information Reporting Requirements and Backup Withholding



Information returns may be filed with the IRS and backup withholding (at a rate of 28%) may be collected in connection with distributions paid or required to be treated as paid during each calendar year and payments of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of our stock by a stockholder. A U.S. Stockholder will not be subject to backup withholding if such stockholder is a corporation or comes within certain other exempt categories and, when required, demonstrates this fact or provides a taxpayer identification number, certifies as to no loss of exemption from backup withholding and otherwise complies with the applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules. A stockholder who does not provide us with its correct taxpayer identification number also may be subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.



Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the U.S. federal income tax liability of persons subject to backup withholding will be offset by the amount of tax withheld. If backup withholding results in an overpayment of U.S. federal income taxes, a refund or credit may be obtained from the IRS, provided the required information is furnished timely thereto.

Other Tax Consequences



State and Local Taxes



We and our stockholders may be subject to taxation by various states and localities, including those in which we or a stockholder transact business, own property or reside. State and local tax treatment may differ from the U.S. federal income tax treatment described above. Consequently, stockholders should consult their own tax advisers regarding the effect of state and local tax laws, in addition to federal, foreign and other tax laws, in connection with an investment in our stock.

Possible Legislative or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences



You should recognize that future legislative, judicial and administrative actions or decisions, which may be retroactive in effect, could adversely affect our federal income tax treatment or the tax consequences of an investment in shares of our stock. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are continually under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, resulting in statutory changes as well as promulgation of new, or revisions to existing, regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts. We cannot predict the likelihood of passage of any new tax legislation or other provisions, either directly or indirectly, affecting us or our stockholders or the value of an investment in our stock.  Changes to the tax laws, such as the Protecting Americans From Tax Hikes Act of 2015 enacted on December 18, 2015 or the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 enacted on November 2, 2015, or interpretations thereof by the IRS and the Treasury, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect us or our stockholders.












