10-K


hsic-20191228.htm

THE 2019 ANNUAL 10-K REPORT

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM

10-K

(Mark One)

☒

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 28, 2019

☐

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ____________ to ____________

Commission file number

0-27078

HENRY SCHEIN, INC

.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

11-3136595

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

incorporation or organization)

135 Duryea Road

Melville

,

New York

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

(


)

843-5500

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Trading Symbol(s)

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

HSIC

The Nasdaq Global Select Market

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

YES

:

☒

NO:

☐

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

YES:

☐

NO:

☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

YES

:

☒

NO:

☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).

YES

:

☒

NO:

☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

:

☒

Accelerated filer:

☐

Non-accelerated filer:

☐

Smaller reporting company:

☐

Emerging growth company:

☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.

☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

YES:

☐

NO:

☒

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales price as quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on June 29, 2019, was approximately $

10,236,712,000

.

As of February 14, 2020, there were

143,390,505

shares of registrant’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Portions of the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year (December 28, 2019) are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.


Page

Number

PART I.

ITEM 1.

Business


ITEM 1A.

Risk Factors


ITEM 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


ITEM 2.

Properties


ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings


ITEM 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures


PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters

and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data


ITEM 7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition

and Results of Operations


ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting

and Financial Disclosure


ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures


ITEM 9B.

Other Information


PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation


ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

and Related Stockholder Matters


ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence


ITEM 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services


PART IV.

ITEM 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules


ITEM 16.

Form 10-K Summary


Signatures




PART I

ITEM 1. Business

General

We believe we are the world’s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office-based dental and medical practitioners. We serve more than 1 million customers worldwide including dental practitioners and laboratories and physician practices, as well as government, institutional health care clinics and other alternate care clinics. We believe that we have a strong brand identity due to our more than 87 years of experience distributing health care products.

We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 19,000 people (of which approximately 9,400 are based outside the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 31 countries, including the United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom.

We offer a comprehensive selection of products and services and value-added solutions for operating efficient practices and delivering high quality care. We operate through a centralized and automated distribution network with a selection of more than 120,000 branded products and Henry Schein private brand products in stock, as well as more than 180,000 additional products available as special order items. We also offer our customers exclusive, innovative technology solutions, including practice management software and e-commerce solutions, as well as a broad range of financial services.

We have established over 3.5 million square feet of space in 29 strategically located distribution centers around the world to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’ needs. Our infrastructure also allows us to provide convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order fulfillment.

We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base.

The health care distribution reportable segment aggregates our global dental and medical operating segments. This segment distributes consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins. Our global dental group serves office-based dental practitioners, dental laboratories, schools and other institutions. Our global medical group serves office-based medical practitioners, ambulatory surgery centers, other alternate-care settings and other institutions.

Our global technology and value-added services group provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners. Our technology group offerings include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners. Our value-added practice solutions include financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, practice technology, network and hardware services, as well as continuing education services for practitioners.

Spin-Off of Henry Schein Animal Health Business

On February 7, 2019 (the “Distribution Date”), we completed the separation (the “Separation”) and subsequent merger (“Merger”) of our animal health business (the “Henry Schein Animal Health Business”) with Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. (d/b/a Vets First Choice, “Vets First Choice”). This was accomplished by a series of transactions among us, Vets First Choice, Covetrus, Inc. (f/k/a HS Spinco, Inc. “Covetrus”), a wholly owned subsidiary of ours prior to the Distribution Date, and HS Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus (“Merger



Sub”). In connection with the Separation, we contributed, assigned and transferred to Covetrus certain applicable assets, liabilities and capital stock or other ownership interests relating to the Henry Schein Animal Health Business. On the Distribution Date, we received a tax-free distribution of $1,120 million from Covetrus pursuant to certain debt financing incurred by Covetrus. On the Distribution Date and prior to the Animal Health Spin-off, Covetrus issued shares of Covetrus common stock to certain institutional accredited investors (the “Share Sale Investors”) for $361.1 million (the “Share Sale”). The proceeds of the Share Sale were paid to Covetrus and distributed to us. Subsequent to the Share Sale, we distributed, on a pro rata basis, all of the shares of the common stock of Covetrus held by us to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 17, 2019 (the “Animal Health Spin-off”). After the Share Sale and Animal Health Spin-off, Merger Sub consummated the Merger whereby it merged with and into Vets First Choice, with Vets First Choice surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus. Immediately following the consummation of the Merger, on a fully diluted basis, (i) approximately 63% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by our stockholders and the Share Sale Investors, and (b) held by certain employees of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business (in the form of certain equity awards), and (ii) approximately 37% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by stockholders of Vets First Choice immediately prior to the Merger, and (b) held by certain employees of Vets First Choice (in the form of certain equity awards). After the Separation and the Merger, we no longer beneficially owned any shares of Covetrus common stock and, following the Distribution Date, will not consolidate the financial results of Covetrus for the purpose of our financial reporting. Following the Separation and the Merger, Covetrus was an independent, publicly traded company on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

In connection with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off, we entered into a transition services agreement with Covetrus under which we have agreed to provide certain transition services for up to twenty-four months in areas such as information technology, finance and accounting, human resources, supply chain, and real estate and facility services.

As a result of the Separation, the financial position and results of operations of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business are presented as discontinued operations and have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented.

Industry

The health care products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented and diverse. The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their practices.

Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment. The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by the practitioner or an administrative assistant. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier.

The health care products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to the aging population, increased health care awareness, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage. In addition, the physician market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians’ offices.

We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base.



In recent years, the health care industry has increasingly focused on cost containment. This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices. It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management.

Competition

The distribution and manufacture of health care supplies and equipment is highly competitive. Many of the health care distribution products we sell are available to our customers from a number of suppliers. In addition, our competitors could obtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market particular products. Manufacturers also could seek to sell directly to end-users, and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors.

In North America, we compete with other distributors, as well as several manufacturers, of dental and medical products, primarily on the basis of price, breadth of product line, customer service and value-added products and services. In the dental market, our primary competitors are the Patterson Dental division of Patterson Companies, Inc. and Benco Dental Supply Company. In addition, we compete against a number of other distributors that operate on a national, regional and local level. Our primary competitors in the medical market are McKesson Corporation and Medline Industries, Inc., which are national distributors. We also compete against a number of regional and local medical distributors, as well as a number of manufacturers that sell directly to physicians. With regard to our dental practice management software, we compete against numerous companies, including Carestream Health, Inc. and the Patterson Dental division of Patterson Companies, Inc. The medical practice management and electronic medical records market is very fragmented and we compete with numerous companies such as the NextGen division of Quality Systems, Inc., eClinicalWorks and Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc.

We also face significant competition internationally, where we compete on the basis of price and customer service against several large competitors, including the GACD Group, Pluradent AG & Co., Lifco AB, Planmeca Oy, Billericay Dental Supply Co. Ltd., as well as a large number of dental and medical product distributors and manufacturers in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom.

Significant price reductions by our competitors could result in a similar reduction in our prices. Any of these competitive pressures may materially adversely affect our operating results.

Competitive Strengths

We have more than 87 years of experience in distributing products to health care practitioners resulting in strong awareness of the Henry Schein® brand. Our competitive strengths include:

A focus on meeting our customers’ unique needs

. We are committed to providing customized solutions to our customers that are driven by our understanding of the market and reflect the technology-driven products and services best suited for their practice needs.

Direct sales and marketing expertise.

Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and solidify customer relationships through personal visits by field sales representatives, frequent direct marketing and telesales contact, emphasizing our broad product lines, including exclusive distribution agreements, competitive prices and ease of order placement. The key elements of our direct sales and marketing efforts are:



•

Field sales consultants.

We have over 3,650 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, covering major North American, European and other international markets. These consultants complement our direct marketing and telesales efforts and enable us to better market, service and support the sale of more sophisticated products and equipment.

•

Direct marketing.

During 2019, we distributed approximately 30 million pieces of direct marketing material, including catalogs, flyers, order stuffers and other promotional materials to existing and potential office-based health care customers.

•

Telesales.

We support our direct marketing effort with approximately 2,000 inbound and outbound telesales representatives, who facilitate order processing, generate new sales through direct and frequent contact with customers and stay abreast of market developments and the hundreds of new products, services and technologies introduced each year to educate practice personnel.

•

Electronic commerce solutions.

We provide our customers and sales teams with innovative and competitive Internet, PC and mobile e-commerce solutions.

•

Social media.

Our operating entities and employees engage our customers and supplier partners through various social media platforms.

Broad product and service offerings at competitive prices.

We offer a broad range of products and services to our customers, at competitive prices, in the following categories:

•

Consumable supplies and equipment.

We offer over 120,000 Stock Keeping Units, or SKUs, to our customers. We offer over 180,000 additional SKUs to our customers in the form of special order items.

•

Technology and other value-added products and services.

We sell practice management software systems to our dental and medical customers. Our practice management solutions provide practitioners with electronic medical records, patient treatment history, billing, accounts receivable analyses and management, appointment calendars, electronic claims processing and word processing programs, network and hardware services, transition services and training and education programs for practitioners. We have approximately 800 technical representatives supporting customers using our practice management solutions. As of December 28, 2019, we had an active user base of approximately 83,600 practices, including users of Dentrix® Dental Systems, Dentrix® Enterprise, Dentrix® Dental Vision

TM

, Dentrix Ascend®, Easy Dental®, Oasis

TM

, Evolution® and EXACT®, Gesden®, Julie®Software, Power Practice® Px, AxiUm

TM

, EndoVision®, PerioVision®, OMSVision® and Viive® for dental practices; and MicroMD® for physician practices.

•

Repair services.

We have over 170 equipment sales and service centers worldwide that provide a variety of repair, installation and technical services for our health care customers. Our over 2,000 technicians provide installation and repair services for: dental handpieces; dental and medical small equipment; table top sterilizers; and large dental equipment.

•

Financial services.

We offer our customers solutions in operating their practices more efficiently by providing access to a number of financial services and products provided by third party vendors (including non-recourse financing for equipment, technology and software products; non-recourse patient financing; collection services and credit card processing) at rates that we believe are generally lower than what our customers would be able to secure independently. We also provide consulting services, dental practice valuation and brokerage services.

Commitment to superior customer service

. We maintain a strong commitment to providing superior customer service. We frequently monitor our customer service through customer surveys, focus groups and statistical reports. Our customer service policy primarily focuses on:



•

Exceptional order fulfillment

. We ship an average of approximately 124,000 cartons daily. Approximately 99% of items ordered are shipped without back ordering and are shipped on the same business day the order is received.

•

Streamlined ordering process

. Customers may place orders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by mail, fax, telephone, e-mail, Internet and by using our computerized order entry systems.

Integrated management information systems

. Our information systems generally allow for centralized management of key functions, including accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, payroll, purchasing, sales and order fulfillment. These systems allow us to manage our growth, deliver superior customer service, properly target customers, manage financial performance and monitor daily operational statistics.

Cost-effective purchasing

. We believe that cost-effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and enhancing our position as a competitive-pricing provider of health care products. We continuously evaluate our purchase requirements and suppliers’ offerings and prices in order to obtain products at the lowest possible cost. In 2019, our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 31% and 6%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases.

Efficient distribution

. We distribute our products from our strategically located distribution centers. We strive to maintain optimal inventory levels in order to satisfy customer demand for prompt delivery and complete order fulfillment. These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid of our management information systems. Once an order is entered, it is electronically transmitted to the distribution center nearest the customer’s location and a packing slip for the entire order is printed for order fulfillment.

Products

The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net sales by principal categories of products offered through our health care distribution and technology reportable segments:

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Health care distribution:

Dental products

(1)

64.2

%

67.4

%

68.1

%

Medical products

(2)

29.8

28.3

28.1

Total health care distribution

94.0

95.7

96.2

Technology and value-added services:

Software and related products and

other value-added products

(3)

5.2

4.3

3.8

Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues

99.2

100.0

100.0

Corporate TSA revenues

(4)

0.8

-

-

Total

100.0

100.0

100.0

(1)

Includes infection-control products, handpieces, preventatives, impression materials, composites, anesthetics, teeth, dental implants, gypsum, acrylics, articulators, abrasives, dental chairs, delivery units and lights, X-ray supplies and equipment, equipment repair and high-tech and digital restoration equipment.

(2)

Includes branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products, X-ray products, equipment and vitamins.

(3)

Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services.

(4)

Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement entered into in connection with the Animal Health spin-off, which we expect to continue through August 2020.



Business Strategy

Our objective is to continue to expand as a global value-added provider of health care products and services to office-based dental and medical practitioners. To accomplish this, we will apply our competitive strengths in executing the following strategies:

•

Increase penetration of our existing customer base.

We have over 1 million customers worldwide and we intend to increase sales to our existing customer base and enhance our position as their primary supplier.

•

Increase the number of customers we serve.

This strategy includes increasing the number and productivity of field sales consultants, as well as using our customer database to focus our marketing efforts in all of our operating segments. In the dental business, we provide products and services to traditional dental practices as well as new emerging segments, such as dental service organizations and community health centers. Leveraging our broad array of assets and capabilities, we offer solutions to address these new markets. In the medical business, we have expanded to serve customers located in settings outside of the traditional office, such as urgent care clinics, retail and occupational health settings. As settings of health care shift, we remain committed to serving these practitioners and providing them with the products and services they need.

•

Leverage our value-added products and services.

We continue to increase cross-selling efforts for key product lines utilizing a consultative selling process. In the dental business, we have significant cross-selling opportunities between our dental practice management software users and our dental distribution customers. In the medical business, we have opportunities to expand our vaccine, injectables and other pharmaceuticals sales to health care practitioners, as well as cross-selling core products and electronic health record and practice management software. Our strategy extends to providing health systems, integrated delivery networks and other large group and multi-site health care organizations, that include physician clinics, these same value added products and services. As physicians and health systems closely align, we have increased access to opportunities for cross-marketing and selling our product and service portfolios.

•

Pursue strategic acquisitions and joint ventures.

Our acquisition strategy includes acquiring businesses and entering into joint ventures complementary to ours that will provide, among other things, additional sales to be channeled through our existing distribution infrastructure, access to additional product lines and field sales consultants and an opportunity to further expand into new geographic markets.

Markets Served

Demographic trends indicate that our markets are growing, as an aging U.S. population is increasingly using health care services. Between 2019 and 2029, the 45 and older population is expected to grow by approximately 11%. Between 2019 and 2039, this age group is expected to grow by approximately 22%. This compares with expected total U.S. population growth rates of approximately 7% between 2019 and 2029 and approximately 13% between 2019 and 2039.

In the dental industry, there is predicted to be a rise in oral health care expenditures as the 45 and older segment of the population increases. There is increasing demand for new technologies that allow dentists to increase productivity, and this is being driven in the U.S. by lower insurance reimbursement rates. At the same time, there is an expected increase in dental insurance coverage.

We support our dental professionals through the many SKUs that we offer, as well as through important value-added services, including practice management software, electronic claims processing, financial services and continuing education, all designed to help maximize a practitioner’s efficiency.

In the medical market, there continues to be a migration of procedures from acute-care settings to physicians’ offices, a trend that we believe provides additional opportunities for us. There also is the continuing use of



vaccines, injectables and other pharmaceuticals in alternate-care settings. We believe we have established a leading position as a vaccine supplier to the office-based physician practitioner.

Additionally, we are expanding our dental full-service model and our medical offerings in countries where opportunities exist. Through our “Schein Direct” program, we also have the capability to provide door-to-door air package delivery to practitioners in over 190 countries around the world.

For information on revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 18 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

Seasonality and Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Quarterly Results

We experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.

Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. Revenues and profitability generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. Revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. We expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. Quarterly results may also be materially adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including:

• timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures;

• timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers;

• timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers;

• timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services;

• changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs;

• supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals;

• changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market;

• costs of developing new applications and services;

• our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences;

• uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems;

• unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally;

• exclusivity requirements with certain suppliers may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other suppliers;

• loss of sales representatives;

• costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses;

• costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs;



• general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries;

• our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships;

• unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products;

• product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers;

• exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury;

• increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers;

• fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies;

• restructuring costs;

• the adoption or repeal of legislation;

• changes in accounting principles; and

• litigation or regulatory judgments, expenses or settlements.

Any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly financial results to fluctuate. If our financial results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline.

Governmental Regulations

Operating, Security and Licensure Standards

Certain of our businesses involve the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard we are subject to various local, state, federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Among the United States federal laws applicable to us are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (“FDC Act”), and Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act. We are also subject to comparable foreign regulations.

The FDC Act and similar foreign laws generally regulate the introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, reporting, marketing and distribution of, and record keeping for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices shipped in interstate commerce, and states may similarly regulate such activities within the state. Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, which provides authority to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases, serves as the legal basis for the United States Food and Drug Administration’s (“FDA”) regulation of human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as “HCT/P products.”

The Federal Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 brought about significant changes with respect to pharmaceutical supply chain requirements. Title II of this measure, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (“DSCSA”), is being phased in over a period of ten years, and is intended to build a national electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed in the United States. The law’s track and trace requirements applicable to manufacturers, wholesalers, repackagers and dispensers (e.g., pharmacies) of prescription drugs took effect in January 2015, and continues to be implemented. The DSCSA product tracing requirements replace the former FDA drug pedigree requirements and pre-empt certain state requirements that are inconsistent with, more stringent than, or in addition to, the DSCSA requirements.



The DSCSA also establishes certain requirements for the licensing and operation of prescription drug wholesalers and third party logistics providers (“3PLs”), and includes the eventual creation of national wholesaler and 3PL licenses in cases where states do not license such entities. The DSCSA requires that wholesalers and 3PLs distribute drugs in accordance with certain standards regarding the recordkeeping, storage and handling of prescription drugs. The DSCSA requires wholesalers and 3PLs to submit annual reports to the FDA, which include information regarding each state where the wholesaler or 3PL is licensed, the name and address of each facility and contact information. According to FDA guidance, states are pre-empted from imposing any licensing requirements that are inconsistent with, less stringent than, directly related to, or covered by the standards established by federal law in this area. Current state licensing requirements concerning wholesalers will remain in effect until the FDA issues new regulations as directed by the DSCSA.

We believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable DSCSA requirements.

The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 and the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012 amended the FDC Act to require the FDA to promulgate regulations to implement a unique device identification (“UDI”) system. The UDI rule phased in the implementation of the UDI regulations over seven years, generally beginning with the highest-risk devices (i.e., Class III medical devices) and ending with the lowest-risk devices. Most compliance dates were reached as of September 24, 2018, with a final set of requirements for low risk devices being reached on September 24, 2022, which will complete the phase in. The UDI regulations require “labelers” to include unique device identifiers (“UDIs”), with a content and format prescribed by the FDA and issued under a system operated by an FDA-accredited issuing agency, on the labels and packages of medical devices, and to directly mark certain devices with UDIs. The UDI regulations also require labelers to submit certain information concerning UDI-labeled devices to the FDA, much of which information is publicly available on an FDA database, the Global Unique Device Identification Database. The UDI regulations and subsequent FDA guidance regarding the UDI requirements provide for certain exceptions, alternatives and time extensions. For example, the UDI regulations include a general exception for Class I devices exempt from the Quality System Regulation (other than record-keeping requirements and complaint files). Regulated labelers include entities such as device manufacturers, repackagers, reprocessors and relabelers that cause a device’s label to be applied or modified, with the intent that the device will be commercially distributed without any subsequent replacement or modification of the label, and include certain of our businesses.

We believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable UDI requirements.

Under the Controlled Substances Act, as a distributor of controlled substances, we are required to obtain and renew annually registrations for our facilities from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) permitting us to handle controlled substances. We are also subject to other statutory and regulatory requirements relating to the storage, sale, marketing, handling, reporting, record-keeping and distribution of such drugs, in accordance with the Controlled Substances Act and its implementing regulations, and these requirements have been subject to heightened enforcement activity in recent times. We are subject to inspection by the DEA.

Certain of our businesses are also required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, the FDA, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as comparable foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies depending on the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing or sale. These businesses include those that distribute, manufacture and/or repackage prescription pharmaceuticals and/or medical devices and/or HCT/P products, or own pharmacy operations, or install, maintain or repair equipment. In addition, Section 301 of the National Organ Transplant Act, and a number of comparable state laws, impose civil and/or criminal penalties for the transfer of certain human tissue (for example, human bone products) for valuable consideration, while generally permitting payments for the reasonable costs incurred in procuring, processing, storing and distributing that tissue. We are also subject to foreign government regulation of such products. The DEA, the FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad inspection and enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend or limit the distribution of products by our distribution centers, seize or order the recall of products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. Foreign regulations subject us to similar foreign enforcement powers.



In the European Union, the EU Medical Device Regulation No. 2017/745 (“EU MDR”) will apply as of May 26, 2020. The EU MDR significantly modifies and intensifies the regulatory compliance requirements for the medical device industry as a whole. In particular, the EU MDR imposes stricter requirements for the confirmation that a product meets the regulatory requirements, including regarding a product’s clinical evaluation and a company’s quality systems, and for the distribution, marketing and sale of medical devices, including post-market surveillance. Medical devices that have been assessed and/or certified under the EU Medical Device Directive may continue to be placed on the market until 2024 (or until the expiry of their certificates, if applicable and earlier); however, requirements regarding the distribution, marketing and sale including quality systems and post-market surveillance have to be observed by manufacturers, importers and distributors as of the application date.

Furthermore, compliance with legal requirements has required and may in the future require us to institute voluntary recalls of products we sell, which could result in financial losses and potential reputational harm. Our customers are also subject to significant federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulation.

Certain of our businesses are subject to various additional federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, and safe working conditions.

Certain of our businesses also maintain contracts with governmental agencies and are subject to certain regulatory requirements specific to government contractors.

Antitrust

The U.S. federal government, most U.S. states and many foreign countries have antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also could bring civil lawsuits against us in the United States for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims for treble damages

.

Health Care Fraud

Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. Some of these laws, referred to as “false claims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs.

The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators” who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws, and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries. Penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be severe. For example, under the federal False Claims Act, violations may result in treble damages, plus civil penalties of up to $22,927 per claim, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal False Claims Act penalties. With respect to “anti-kickback laws,” violations of, for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Law may result in civil penalties of up to $102,522 for each violation, plus up to three times the total amount of remuneration offered, paid, solicited or received, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. Notably, effective October 24, 2018, a new federal anti-kickback law (the “Eliminating Kickbacks in Recovery Act of 2018”) enacted in connection with broader addiction services legislation, may impose criminal penalties for kickbacks involving clinical laboratory services, regardless of whether the services at issue involved addiction services, and regardless of whether the services were reimbursed by a federal health care program or by a



commercial health insurer. Furthermore, the United States Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010 (the “Health Care Reform Law”) significantly strengthened the federal False Claims Act and the federal Anti-Kickback Law provisions, clarifying that a federal Anti-Kickback Law violation can be a basis for federal False Claims Act liability.

With respect to measures of this type, the United States government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. As a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance.

We also are subject to certain United States and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, German anti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years.

Failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. In addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of noncompliance.

While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Health Care Reform

The Health Care Reform Law increased federal oversight of private health insurance plans and included a number of provisions designed to reduce Medicare expenditures and the cost of health care generally, to reduce fraud and abuse, and to provide access to increased health coverage.

The Health Care Reform Law included a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that was to begin in 2013 and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics. The fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics was implemented in 2011. However, subsequent federal laws had suspended the imposition of the medical device excise tax, through December 31, 2019, and the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, signed into law on December 20, 2019, has permanently repealed the medical device excise tax. The Health Care Reform Law has also materially expanded the number of individuals in the United States with health insurance. The Health Care Reform Law has faced ongoing legal challenges, including litigation seeking to invalidate some of or all of the law or the manner in which it has been implemented.

In addition, the President is seeking to repeal and replace the Health Care Reform Law. Repeal and replace legislation has been passed in the House of Representatives, but did not obtain the necessary votes in the Senate. Subsequently, the President has affirmed his intention to repeal and replace the Health Care Reform Law and has taken a number of administrative actions to materially weaken it, including, without limitation, by permitting the use of less robust plans with lower coverage and eliminating “premium support” for insurers providing policies under the Health Care Reform Law. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions and which also repealed the individual mandate of the Health Care Reform Law. Further, in December 2019, the Fifth Circuit ruled that the



mandate within the Health Care Reform Law requiring that people buy health insurance was unconstitutional, through the ruling will likely be appealed. The Fifth Circuit remanded the remainder of the case, pertaining to the viability of the remainder of the Health Care Reform Law, in the absence of the individual mandate, to the District Court of the Northern District of Texas. Any outcome of these cases that changes the Health Care Reform Law could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare industry. The uncertain status of the Health Care Reform Law affects our ability to plan.

A Health Care Reform Law provision, generally referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act or Open Payments Program, imposes annual reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers and distributors with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain covered recipients (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and distributors and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) publishes information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities. Amendments expanded the law to also require reporting, effective January 1, 2022, of payments or other transfers of value to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse-midwives, and this new requirement will be effective for data collected beginning in calendar year 2021.

Under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with covered recipients such as physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. We believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable Physician Payment Sunshine Act requirements. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with these requirements, our compliance with these rules imposes additional costs on us.

Another notable Medicare health care reform initiative, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“MACRA”), enacted on April 16, 2015, established a new payment framework, called the Quality Payment Program, which modifies certain Medicare payments to “eligible clinicians,” including physicians, dentists and other practitioners. Under MACRA, certain eligible clinicians are required to participate in Medicare through the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (“MIPS”) or Advanced Alternative Payment Models (“APMs”). MIPS generally consolidated three programs (the physician quality reporting system, the value-based payment modifier and the Medicare electronic health record (“EHR”) program) into a single program in which Medicare reimbursement to eligible clinicians includes both positive and negative payment adjustments that take into account quality, promoting interoperability, cost and improvement activities. Advanced APMs generally involve higher levels of financial and technology risk. The first MIPS performance year was 2017, and the data collected in the first performance year determines payment adjustments that began January 1, 2019. MACRA standards continue to evolve, and represent a fundamental change in physician reimbursement that is expected to provide substantial financial incentives for physicians to participate in risk contracts, and to increase physician information technology and reporting obligations. The implications of the implementation of MACRA are uncertain and will depend on future regulatory activity and physician activity in the marketplace. MACRA may encourage physicians to move from smaller practices to larger physician groups or hospital employment, leading to a consolidation of a portion of our customer base. Although we believe that we are positioned to capitalize on this consolidation trend, there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully accomplish this.

As a result of political, economic and regulatory influences, the health care distribution industry in the United States is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental changes. We cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.

Recently, there has been increased scrutiny on drug pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by Congress, the President and various states including that several related bills have been introduced at the federal level. Such legislation, if enacted, could have the potential to impose additional costs on our business.



Regulated Software; Electronic Health Records

The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software and digital health products intended for use in health care settings. The 21st Century Cures Act (the “Cures Act”), signed into law on December 13, 2016, among other things amended the medical device definition to exclude certain software from FDA regulation, including clinical decision support software that meets certain criteria. On September 27, 2019, the FDA issued a suite of guidance documents on digital health products, which incorporated applicable Cures Act standards, including regarding the types of clinical decision support tools and other software that are exempt from regulation by the FDA as medical devices. Certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements with respect to these products.

In addition, our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. These information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. For example, we are directly or indirectly subject to numerous and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, such as the privacy and security provisions of the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and implementing regulations (“HIPAA”). HIPAA requires, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties and other liabilities.

In addition, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have adopted a new pan-European General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), effective from May 25, 2018, which increased privacy rights for individuals in Europe (“Data Subjects”) including individuals who are our customers, suppliers and employees. The GDPR extended the scope of responsibilities for data controllers and data processors, and generally imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies, such as us, that offer goods or services to Data Subjects or monitor their behavior (including by companies based outside of Europe). Noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues. Individual member states may impose additional requirements and penalties regarding certain matters, such as employee personal data. With respect to the personal data it protects, the GDPR requires, among other things, company accountability, consents from Data Subjects or other acceptable legal basis to process the personal data, breach notifications within 72 hours, data integrity and security, and fairness and transparency regarding the storage, use or other processing of the personal data. The GDPR also provides rights to Data Subjects relating to modification, erasure and transporting of the personal data. In the United States, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which increases the privacy protections afforded California residents and was signed into law on June 28, 2018, became effective January 1, 2020. The CCPA generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protections regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain personal information of California residents. The California Attorney General released proposed CCPA regulations on October 10, 2019, and is required to adopt final regulations on or before July 1, 2020. In addition to providing for enforcement by the California Attorney General, the CCPA also provides for a private right of action. Entities in violation of the CCPA may be liable for civil penalties. Other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly considered the adoption of similarly expansive personal privacy laws, backed by significant civil penalties for non-compliance. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the GDPR and CCPA requirements, our compliance with these measures is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business.



We also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers, and we, are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require the protection of the privacy and security of those records, and our products may also be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products or services to comply with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation.

Various federal initiatives involve the adoption and use by health care providers of certain electronic health care records systems and processes. The initiatives include, among others, programs that incentivize physicians and dentists, through Medicare’s MIPS, to use certified EHR technology in accordance with certain evolving requirements, including regarding quality, promoting interoperability, cost and improvement activities. Qualification for the MIPS incentive payments requires the use of EHRs that are certified as having certain capabilities designated in standards adopted by CMS and by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology of the Department of Health and Human Services. These standards have been subject to change.

Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified EHR systems and other products linked to MIPS and other incentive programs. In order to maintain certification of our EHR products, we must satisfy these changing governmental standards. If any of our EHR systems do not meet these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, as noted above, we are exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act. For example, on May 31, 2017, the U.S. Department of Justice announced a $155 million settlement and 5-year corporate integrity agreement involving a vendor of certified EHR systems, based on allegations that the vendor, by misrepresenting capabilities to the certifying body, caused its health care provider customers to submit false Medicare and Medicaid claims for meaningful use incentive payments in violation of the False Claims Act. While we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex reporting functionality. Although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. Certain of our businesses provide electronic practice management products that must meet these requirements. Failure to abide by electronic health data transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties, and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.

Additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the ability of these connected systems safely and effectively to exchange and use exchanged information becomes increasingly important. For example on September 6, 2017, the FDA issued final guidance to assist industry in identifying specific considerations related to the ability of electronic medical devices to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information. As a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device.

There may be additional legislative or regulatory initiatives in the future impacting health care.



E-Commerce

Electronic commerce solutions have become an integral part of traditional health care supply and distribution relationships. Our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. The continuing advancement of online commerce requires us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address the changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings.

Through our proprietary, technologically based suite of products, we offer customers a variety of competitive alternatives. We believe that our tradition of reliable service, our name recognition and large customer base built on solid customer relationships, position us well to participate in this significant aspect of the distribution business. We continue to explore ways and means to improve and expand our Internet presence and capabilities, including our online commerce offerings and our use of various social media outlets.

International Transactions

In addition, United States and foreign import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating to the importation and exportation of products. We also are subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, German anti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, as well as other types of foreign requirements similar to those imposed in the United States.

While we believe that we are substantially compliant with the foregoing laws and regulations promulgated thereunder and possess all material permits and licenses required for the conduct of our business, there can be no assurance that regulations that impact our business or customers’ practices will not have a material adverse effect on our business.

See “ITEM 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Proprietary Rights

We hold trademarks relating to the “Henry Schein

®

” name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. We intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable.

Employees

We employ more than 19,000 full-time equivalent employees, including approximately 2,000 telesales representatives, over 3,650 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 3,000 warehouse employees, 800 computer programmers and technicians, 660 management employees and 7,000 office, clerical and administrative employees. Approximately 2,160, or 11%, of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are excellent.

Available Information

We make available free of charge through our Internet website,

www.henryschein.com

, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our principal executive offices are located at 135 Duryea Road, Melville, New York 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. Unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the “Company,” “Henry Schein,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Henry Schein, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.



Information about our Executive Officers

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers:

Name

Age

Position

Stanley M. Bergman


Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Director

Gerald A. Benjamin


Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Director

James P. Breslawski


Vice Chairman, President, Director

Michael S. Ettinger


Senior Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs and Chief of Staff, Secretary

Mark E. Mlotek


Executive Vice President, Chief Strategic Officer, Director

Steven Paladino


Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Director

Walter Siegel


Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Stanley M. Bergman

has been our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. Mr. Bergman held the position of President from 1989 to 2005. Mr. Bergman held the position of Executive Vice President from 1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and Administration from 1980 to 1985.

Gerald A. Benjamin

has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Benjamin was Senior Vice President of Administration and Customer Satisfaction since 1993. Mr. Benjamin was Vice President of Distribution Operations from 1990 to 1992 and Director of Materials Management from 1988 to 1990. Before joining us in 1988, Mr. Benjamin was employed for 12 years at Estée Lauder, Inc., in various management positions where his last position was Director of Materials Planning and Control.

James P. Breslawski

has been our Vice Chairman since 2018, President since 2005 and a director since 1992. Mr. Breslawski was the Chief Executive Officer of our Henry Schein Global Dental Group from 2005 to 2018. Mr. Breslawski held the position of Executive Vice President and President of U.S. Dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the North American Dental Group. Between 1980 and 1990, Mr. Breslawski held various positions with us, including Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Administration and Corporate Controller.

Michael S. Ettinger

has been Senior Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs, Chief of Staff and Secretary since 2015. Prior to his current position, Mr. Ettinger served as Senior Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs and Secretary from 2013 to 2015, Corporate Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary from 2006 to 2013, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2000 to 2006, Vice President and Associate General Counsel from 1998 to 2000 and Associate General Counsel from 1994 to 1998. Before joining us, Mr. Ettinger served as a senior associate with Bower & Gardner and as a member of the Tax Department at Arthur Andersen.

Mark E. Mlotek

has been Executive Vice President and Chief Strategic Officer since 2012. Mr. Mlotek was Senior Vice President and subsequently Executive Vice President of the Corporate Business Development Group between 2000 and 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Mlotek was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. Prior to joining us, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994.

Steven Paladino

has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2000. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Paladino was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Paladino served as Vice President and Treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as Corporate Controller. Before joining us, Mr. Paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of BDO USA, LLP. Mr. Paladino is a certified public accountant.



Walter Siegel

has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel since 2013. Prior to joining us, Mr. Siegel was employed with Standard Microsystems Corporation, a publicly traded global semiconductor company from 2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.

Other Executive Management

The following table sets forth certain information regarding other Executive Management:

Name

Age

Position

David Brous


President, Strategic Business Units Group and Asia Pacific & Brazil Dental

Brad Connett


President, U.S. Medical Group

Jonathan Koch


Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, Global Dental Group and Interim Chief Executive Officer, Henry Schein One

Lorelei McGlynn


Chief Human Resources Officer

James Mullins


Senior Vice President, Global Services

Christopher Pendergast


Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer

Michael Racioppi


Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer

René Willi, Ph.D.


President, Global Dental Surgical Group

David Brous

has been our President, Strategic Business Units Group and Asia Pacific & Brazil Dental since 2019. Mr. Brous joined us in 2002 and has held many positions within the organization, including leading and managing the Corporate Business Development Group and the International Healthcare Group (managing our International Animal Health business, International Medical business and Australia / New Zealand Dental business).

Brad Connett

has been President of our U.S. Medical Group since 2018. Mr. Connett joined us in 1997 and has held a number of increasingly responsible positions at the Company. Throughout his career, he has received numerous industry honors, including the John F. Sasen Leadership Award from the Health Industry Distributors Association (HIDA), in recognition of his service to the industry, and induction into the Medical Distribution Hall of Fame by Repertoire Magazine.

Jonathan Koch

has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of our Global Dental Group since 2018 and Interim Chief Executive Officer of Henry Schein One since January 2020. Prior to joining us, for the years 2006 to 2018, Mr. Koch was a senior executive at Covance, the drug development services business of Laboratory Corporation of America. In his last role at Covance, Mr. Koch was the Executive Vice President and Group President of Covance Clinical Development & Commercialization Services. Prior to that, Mr. Koch was Executive Vice President and Group President of Covance Research and Development Laboratories from 2015 to 2017. Mr. Koch was also President of Covance Central Laboratory Services from 2010 to 2015, and Vice President at Covance, with various responsibilities, from 2006 to 2010. Prior to Covance, Mr. Koch held senior leadership roles of increasing responsibility while employed with Charles River Laboratories from 1998 to 2006.

Lorelei McGlynn

has served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources Officer since 2013. Since joining us in 1999, Ms. McGlynn has served as Vice President, Global Human Resources and Financial Operations from 2008 to 2013, Chief Financial Officer, International Group and Vice President of Global Financial Operations from 2002 to 2008 and Vice President, Finance, North America from 1999 to 2002. Prior to joining us, Ms. McGlynn served as Assistant Vice President of Finance at Adecco Corporation.

James Mullins

has served as our Senior Vice President of Global Services since 2018. Mr. Mullins joined us in 1988 and has held a number of key positions with increasing responsibility, including Global Chief Customer Service Officer.



Christopher Pendergast

has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since 2018. Prior to joining us, Mr. Pendergast was the employed by VSP Global from 2008 to 2018, most recently as the Chief Technology Officer and Chief Information Officer. Prior to VSP Global, Mr. Pendergast served in roles of increasing responsibility at Natural Organics, Inc., from 2006 to 2008, IdeaSphere Inc./Twinlab Corporation from 2000 to 2006, IBM Corporation from 1987 to 1994 and 1998 to 2000 and Rohm and Haas from 1994 to 1998.

Michael Racioppi

has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer since 2008. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Racioppi was President of the Medical Division from 2000 to 2008 and Interim President from 1999 to 2000, and Corporate Vice President from 1994 to 2008, with primary responsibility for the Medical Group, Marketing and Merchandising departments. Mr. Racioppi served as Senior Director, Corporate Merchandising from 1992 to 1994. Before joining us in 1992, Mr. Racioppi was employed by Ketchum Distributors, Inc. as the Vice President of Purchasing and Marketing. He currently serves on the board of National Distribution and Contracting and previously served on the board of Health Distribution Management Association and Health Industry Distributors Association (HIDA).

René Willi, Ph.D.

has been our President, Global Dental Surgical Group, Henry Schein Inc., since 2013. Prior to joining Henry Schein, Dr. Willi held senior level roles with Institut Straumann AG as Executive Vice President, Surgical Business Unit from 2005 to 2013. Prior to Straumann, he held roles of increasing responsibility in Medtronic Plc’s cardiovascular division from 2003 to 2005 and with McKinsey & Company as a management consultant from 2000 to 2003.



ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

The risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.

The health care products distribution industry is highly competitive and consolidating, and we may not be able to compete successfully.

We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. Most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and the roles of other distributors. Industry consolidation among health care product distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors, also could increase competition. There has also been increasing consolidation among manufacturers of health care products which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. Additionally, in this competitive market, some of our contracts contain minimum purchase commitments. We could be subject to charges and financial losses in the event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments. In the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues and profitability.

We may experience competition from third-party online commerce sites.

Traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. The continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. The emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products.

We obtain substantially all of our products from third parties. Generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. Therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. While there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. Additionally, because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including the failure to comply with applicable government requirements. The failure of manufacturers of products regulated by the FDA or other governmental agencies to meet these requirements could result in product recall, cessation of sales or other market disruptions. In the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in our required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. An extended interruption in the supply of our products, especially any high sales volume product, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock.



Our revenues and profitability depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute.

Our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be materially adversely affected.

Our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management.

Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly Stanley M. Bergman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Bergman. We do not currently have “key man” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel.

We experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.

Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. Revenues and profitability generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. Revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. We expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. Quarterly results may also be materially adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including:

• timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures;

• timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers;

• timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers;

• timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services;

• changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs;

• supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals;

• changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market;

• costs of developing new applications and services;

• our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences;

• uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems;

• unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally;

• exclusivity requirements with certain suppliers, which may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other suppliers;

• loss of sales representatives;

• costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses;



• costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs;

• general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries;

• our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships;

• unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products;

• product demand and availability, or product recalls by manufacturers;

• exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury;

• increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers;

• fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies;

• restructuring costs;

• the adoption or repeal of legislation;

• changes in accounting principles; and

• litigation or regulatory judgments, expenses or settlements.

Any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly financial results to fluctuate. If our financial results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline.

Expansion of group purchasing organizations (“GPO”) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage.

The medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. Under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. The multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as GPOs, demand more favorable pricing terms. Additionally, the formation of provider networks and GPOs may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. This may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which could in turn negatively impact our financial results. Although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers to obtain access to lower prices demanded by GPO contracts or other contracts, and to develop relationships with provider networks and new GPOs, we cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed.

Increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business.

Shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. We ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. Accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis.



Uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the United States, Europe and other parts of the world could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These uncertainties, include, among other things:

• the United Kingdom’s vote to leave the European Union (generally referred to as Brexit) and any other similar referenda or actions by other European Union member countries (during 2019, approximately 3% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in the United Kingdom and approximately 20% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in Europe overall, including the U.K.);

• election results;

• changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade (including, without limitation, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) and other international trade agreements);

• greater restrictions on imports and exports;

• changes in laws and policies governing health care or data privacy;

• tariffs and sanctions;

• sovereign debt levels;

• the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues;

• consumer confidence;

• unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population);

• changes in regulatory and tax regulations, including, without limitation, the Tax Act;

• increases in interest rates;

• availability of capital;

• increases in fuel and energy costs;

• the effect of inflation on our ability to procure products and our ability to increase prices over time;

• changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions;

• increases in health care costs;

• the threat or outbreak of war, terrorism or public unrest; and

• changes in laws and policies governing manufacturing, development and investment in territories and countries where we do business.

Additionally, changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall.



Recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may also cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. We generally sell products to customers with payment terms. If customers’ cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. Likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us.

Our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us.

The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile.

The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. A variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to:

• the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community;

• changes in our industry and competitors;

• changes in government or legislation;

• our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects;

• stock repurchases;

• any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, issuances of restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time;

• general market and economic conditions; and

• any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business.

In addition, the Nasdaq Stock Market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on Nasdaq. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action or derivative litigation has often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

The health care industry is experiencing changes that could materially adversely affect our business.

The health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. In recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including, among other things: trends toward managed care; consolidation



of health care distribution companies; consolidation of health care manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. Both our profitability and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services, or changes to the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. If we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our financial results could be materially adversely affected.

The implementation of the Health Care Reform Law could materially adversely affect our business.

The Health Care Reform Law increased federal oversight of private health insurance plans and included a number of provisions designed to reduce Medicare expenditures and the cost of health care generally, to reduce fraud and abuse, and to provide access to increased health coverage.

The Health Care Reform Law contained many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid, which included a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that was to begin in 2013 and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics. The fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics was implemented in 2011, and may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold. However, subsequent federal laws had suspended the imposition of the medical device excise tax through December 31, 2019, and the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, signed into law on December 20, 2019, has permanently repealed the medical device excise tax. The Health Care Reform Law has also materially expanded the number of individuals in the United States with health insurance.

The Health Care Reform Law has faced ongoing legal challenges, including litigation seeking to invalidate some of or all of the law or the manner in which it has been implemented.

In addition, the President is seeking to repeal and replace the Health Care Reform Law. Repeal and replace legislation has been passed in the House of Representatives, but did not obtain the necessary votes in the Senate. Subsequently, the President has affirmed his intention to repeal and replace the Health Care Reform Law and has taken a number of administrative actions to materially weaken it, including, without limitation, by permitting the use of less robust plans with lower coverage and eliminating “premium support” for insurers providing policies under the Health Care Reform Law. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Act, which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions and which also repealed the individual mandate of the Health Care Reform Law. Further, in December 2019, the Fifth Circuit ruled that the mandate within the Health Care Reform Law requiring that people buy health insurance was unconstitutional, though the ruling will likely be appealed. The Fifth Circuit remanded the remainder of the case, pertaining to the viability of the Health Care Reform Law, in the absence of the individual mandate, to the District Court of the Northern District of Texas. Any outcome of these cases that changes the Health Care Reform Law could have a significant impact on the U.S. health care industry. The uncertain status of the Health Care Reform Law affects our ability to plan.

Recently, there has been increased scrutiny on drug pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by Congress, the President, and various states, including that several related bills have been introduced at the federal level. Such legislation, if enacted, could have the potential to impose additional costs on our business.

The implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the Physician Payment Sunshine Act provisions of the Health Care Reform Law could adversely affect our business.

A Health Care Reform Law provision, generally referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, or Open Payments Program, imposes annual reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers and distributors with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain covered recipients (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and distributors and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. CMS publishes



information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities. Amendments expanded the law to also require reporting, effective January 1, 2022, of payments or other transfers of value to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse-midwives, and this new requirement will be effective for data collected beginning in calendar year 2021.

Under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with covered recipients such as physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. We believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable Physician Payment Sunshine Act requirements. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with these requirements, our compliance with these rules imposes additional costs on us.

Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business.

Our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as HCT/P products, and animal feed and supplements. Among the federal laws with which we must comply are the Controlled Substances Act, the FDC Act, as amended, and Section 361 of the Public Health Services Act. Among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder:

• regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, HCT/P products and medical devices;

• subject us to inspection by the FDA and the DEA;

• regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials;

• require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable FDA requirements;

• require registration with the FDA and the DEA and various state agencies;

• require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products;

• require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the DEA;

• require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and

• impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, HCT/P product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death.

Applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. Our business is also subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations



abroad. The FDA and DEA have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities, and in particular, the DEA has increased generally its regulatory and enforcement activities due to the widely reported opioid crisis in the United States.

The failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that current and future government regulations will not adversely affect our business. The costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. Allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. If we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. Non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs and damage our reputation.

The EU Medical Device Regulation may adversely affect our business.

As of May 26, 2020, the European Union Medical Device Regulation No. 2017/745 (the “EU MDR”) applies to medical devices developed and/or commercialized in the European Union. The EU MDR is anticipated to have a major impact on the medical device industry as a whole. It may adversely affect our business in various ways.

First, to the extent new products require a conformity assessment and such conformity assessment requires involvement of a notified body, the current and persisting significant shortage of notified bodies may limit our options to seek certification and/or significantly delay certification. Furthermore the (few) existing notified bodies designated under the EU MDR are experiencing significant capacity bottlenecks, which leads to above-average timelines for product certifications. The same applies to timelines for recertification of our existing products for which the CE certificate is approaching expiry. This may result in us not being able to launch or to continue commercializing products.

Furthermore, within the context of conformity assessment (both for self-certified devices, and for devices under conformity assessment with a notified body), the EU MDR is tightening the requirements for clinical evaluation of a device. In the specific case of Class I products, where to date the legal manufacturer confirmed compliance with the regulatory requirements, oversight by supervisory authorities is expected to increase, and such authorities may have a stricter view. It may be that, from a perspective of the legal manufacturer, or of an authority, the existing product documentation has to be expanded, which may require additional development work. We may also have to decide to discontinue commercialization of certain products, if and to the extent investments into additional development are not commensurate with the business contribution of such products.

Additionally in the context of conformity assessment, certain national authorities as well as the European Commission have further scrutinized the business model of own brand labeling (private label products) under the EU MDR, i.e., the reliance of a manufacturer distributing a product under its name on an assessment of a supplier confirming that the product meets the regulatory requirements, including its technical file(s) for the supplied product. While this question remains under intense discussion between the industry and the authorities, and while we are exploring all options, this may require us to adapt the supply chain structure (e.g., by switching suppliers or moving to a distribution business model under which the supplier of a product is labeled as the legal manufacturer), for certain of our products, and may make it more difficult to bring private label products to market in Europe. We may not be able to continue commercializing products, if no alternative supply chain solution is found.

In addition, the EU MDR is imposing more stringent regulatory requirements across the whole value chain including post marketing requirements, additional requirements for the organization of the quality management



system such as a responsible person for regulatory compliance, post marketing safety reporting, the requirement of Unique Device Identification (UDI), and the input into a European Databank on Medical Devices (EUDAMED, which however is delayed in its operations, with unknown implications on the regulatory obligations for product owners and distributors). Also, the regulatory requirements for our interactions with suppliers and distributors alike are tightened. These additional regulatory requirements increase our compliance obligations and thus the risk for non-compliance and greater costs.

The uncertain impact of the new EU MDR regulations, as well as failure to comply with the EU MDR, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business.

Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. Some of these laws, referred to as “false claims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our dental and physician practice management products that offer billing related functionality.

The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators” who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws, and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries. Penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be severe. For example, under the federal False Claims Act, violations may result in treble damages, plus civil penalties of up to $22,927 per claim, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal False Claims Act penalties. With respect to “anti-kickback laws,” violations of, for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Law may result in civil penalties of up to $100,522 for each violation, plus up to three times the total amount of remuneration offered, paid, solicited or received, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. Notably, effective October 24, 2018, a new federal anti-kickback law (the “Eliminating Kickbacks in Recovery Act of 2018”) enacted in connection with broader addiction services legislation, may impose criminal penalties for kickbacks involving clinical laboratory services, regardless of whether the services at issue involved addiction services, and regardless of whether the services were reimbursed by a federal health care program or by a commercial health insurer. Furthermore, the Health Care Reform Law significantly strengthened the federal False Claims Act and the federal Anti-Kickback Law provisions, clarifying that a federal Anti-Kickback Law violation can be a basis for federal False Claims Act liability.

With respect to measures of this type, the United States government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. As a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance.

We also are subject to certain United States and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, German anti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. Our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial results, including, without limitation,



securities, antitrust and marketing laws and regulations. Failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations and other laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. In addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of non-compliance. We may determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees or enter into other arrangements to resolve such matters. For example, one of our subsidiaries resolved an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission related to the manner in which it advertised certain data security features of its dental practice management software, which resulted in a consent order and fine. Failure to comply with consent decrees could materially adversely affect our business.

While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities.

The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software and digital health products intended for use in health care settings. The Cures Act, signed into law on December 13, 2016, among other things amended the medical device definition to exclude certain software from FDA regulation, including clinical decision support software that meet certain criteria. On September 27, 2019, the FDA issued a suite of guidance documents on digital health products, which incorporated applicable Cures Act standards, including regarding the types of clinical decision support tools and other software that are exempt from regulations by the FDA as medical devices. Certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is subject to regulation as a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements with respect to these products.

Our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. These information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. For example, we are directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, such as HIPAA. HIPAA requires, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. Also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. Certain of our businesses provide electronic practice management products that must meet these requirements. Failure to abide by electronic health data transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.

In addition, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have adopted the GDPR, effective from May 25, 2018, which increased privacy rights for individuals in Europe (“Data Subjects”), including individuals who are our customers, suppliers and employees. The GDPR extended the scope or responsibilities for data controllers and data processors and generally imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies, such as us, that offer goods or services to Data Subjects or monitor their behavior (including by companies based outside of Europe). Noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues. Individual member states may impose additional requirements and penalties regarding certain matters, such as employee personal data. With respect to the personal data it protects, the GDPR requires, among other things, company accountability, consents from Data Subjects or other acceptable legal basis to process the personal data, breach notifications within 72 hours, data integrity and security, and fairness and transparency regarding the storage, use or other processing of the personal data. The GDPR also provides rights to Data Subjects relating to modification, erasure and transporting of the personal data. In the United States, the CCPA, which increases the privacy protections afforded California residents and was signed into law on June 28, 2018, became effective January 1, 2020. The CCPA generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protections regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain personal information of California residents. The California Attorney General released proposed CCPA regulations on October 10, 2019, and is required to adopt final regulations on or before July 1, 2020. In addition to providing for enforcement by the California Attorney General, the CCPA also provides for a private right of action. Entities in violation of the CCPA may be liable for civil penalties. Other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly considered the adoption of similarly expansive personal privacy laws, backed by significant civil penalties for non-compliance. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the GDPR and CCPA requirements, our compliance with these measures is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers and we, are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require the protection of the privacy and security of those records, and our products or services may also be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products or services to comply with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation.

Various federal initiatives involve the adoption and use by health care providers of certain electronic health care records systems and processes. The initiatives include, among others, programs that incentivize physicians and dentists, though Medicare’s MIPS, to use certified EHR technology in accordance with certain evolving requirements, including regarding quality, promoting interoperability, cost and improvement activities. Qualification for the MIPS incentive payments requires the use of EHRs that are certified as having certain capabilities designated in standards adopted by CMS and by the ONC. These standards have been subject to change.

Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified EHR systems and other products linked to MIPS and other incentive programs. In order to maintain certification of our EHR products, we must satisfy the



changing governmental standards. If any of our EHR systems do not meet these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, as noted above, we are exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act. For example, on May 31, 2017, the U.S. Department of Justice announced a $155 million settlement and 5-year corporate integrity agreement involving a vendor of certified EHR systems, based on allegations that the vendor, by misrepresenting capabilities to the certifying body, caused its health care provider customers to submit false Medicare and Medicaid claims for meaningful use incentive payments in violation of the False Claims Act. While we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations and we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex reporting functionality. Although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the ability of these connected systems safely and effectively to exchange and use exchanged information becomes increasingly important. For example, on September 6, 2017, the FDA issued final guidance to assist industry in identifying specific considerations related to the ability of electronic medical devices to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information. As a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device.

There may be additional legislative or regulatory initiatives in the future impacting health care.

Our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially adversely affect our business.

Global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business. The risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things:

• difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations;

• difficulties in establishing channels of distribution;

• fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies (including, without limitation, in connection with Brexit);

• longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions;

• repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the United States;

• regulatory requirements;

• anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records;

• unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products;

• imposition of import/export tariffs, quotas, sanctions or penalties;

• difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets;

• limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property;

• unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets;



• changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment;

• civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and

• public health emergencies, including the Coronavirus (as defined below).

The coronavirus could materially adversely affect our results

The Novel Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) (“Coronavirus”) is impacting worldwide economic activity, and activity in China in particular. Estimates for Chinese gross domestic product and economic growth have been reduced as a result of the coronavirus. The Company has several businesses in China that were forced to close as a result of the coronavirus for certain periods, with a corresponding effect on their sales activity. In addition, it is unclear if the coronavirus will spread to other countries, and how economic activity might be impacted on a worldwide basis. The Company also might be unable to obtain infection control products from its suppliers due to the additional demand for such products created by the virus. The impact of the virus on Chinese and other economic activity, and its effect on the supply chain are uncertain at this time and could have a material adverse effect on our results.

We operate within the European Union, including in the United Kingdom, and therefore may be affected by the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union.

We operate within the European Union, including the United Kingdom, and as a result, we face risks associated with the potential uncertainty and disruptions that may lead up to and follow Brexit, including with respect to volatility in exchange rates and interest rates and potential material changes to the regulatory regime applicable to our operations in the U.K. Brexit could adversely affect European or worldwide political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global political institutions, regulatory agencies and financial markets. During 2019, approximately 3% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in the United Kingdom and approximately 20% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in Europe overall, including the U.K. There is significant uncertainty about the terms and timing under which the U.K. will continue a relationship with the EU. It is possible that Brexit will result in our U.K. and EU operations becoming subject to materially different, and potentially conflicting, laws, regulations or tariffs which could require costly new compliance initiatives or changes to legal entity structures or operating practices. Furthermore, in the event the U.K. and the EU do not reach a trade agreement during a prescribed transition period, there may be additional adverse impacts on immigration and trade between the U.K. and the EU or countries outside the EU. Such impacts could materially adversely affect our business. The ultimate effects of Brexit on us will depend on the specific terms of any agreement the U.K. and the EU reach to provide access to each other’s respective markets.

Our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks.

We have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. Such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible material adverse effects on our financial results or the market price of our common stock. Some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures:

• may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures;

• requires significant management attention;

• may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and



• results in additional acquisition and integration expenses.

There can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. Our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following:

• the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices;

• our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to U.S. or foreign antitrust regulations;

• the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions;

• the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets; and

• our ability to retain, recruit and incentivize the management of the companies we acquire.

Our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect.

We are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. We cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. To effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to manage successfully our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management and financial and operational controls. If we fail in any of these areas, our business could be materially adversely affected.

If the Animal Health Spin-off or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Animal Health Spin-off are determined to be taxable in whole or in part, we and our stockholders may incur substantial tax liabilities.

In connection with the Animal Health Spin-off, we obtained an opinion of outside tax counsel that the Animal Health Spin-off will qualify as a tax-free transaction to us and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have not sought or obtained a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) on the tax consequences of the transaction. In addition, the tax opinion is subject to customary qualifications and assumptions, and is based on factual representations and undertakings. The failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects, or any undertakings to be fully complied with, could affect the validity of the tax opinion. Moreover, an opinion of counsel represents counsel’s best legal judgment, is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the conclusions set forth in the tax opinion. Even if the Animal Health Spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it may become taxable to us if certain events occur that affect either us or Covetrus. While Covetrus has agreed not to take certain actions that could cause the transaction not to qualify as a tax-free transaction and is generally obligated to indemnify us against any tax consequences if it breaches this agreement, the potential tax liabilities could have an adverse effect on us if we were not entitled to indemnification or if the indemnification obligations were not fulfilled. If the Animal Health Spin-off or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Animal Health Spin-off are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and/or our U.S. stockholders who participated in the Animal Health Spin-off could incur substantial U.S. federal income tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to indemnification or that Covetrus would have the resources or liquidity required to indemnify us for any such taxable gain. In addition, we and/or our stockholders who participated in the Animal Health Spin-off could incur tax costs in foreign jurisdictions in connection with the transaction, irrespective of whether the Animal Health Spin-off qualifies as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes.



The Animal Health Spin-off may not achieve the intended benefits and may expose us to potential risks and liabilities.

We completed the Animal Health Spin-off on February 7, 2019. We undertook the transaction because, among other things, we believed that our animal health business could achieve greater growth by combining with Vets First Choice and that we could benefit from greater strategic focus of our resources and management efforts. We may not benefit as expected from the increased focus on our core business, strategic programs and objectives made possible by the Animal Health Spin-off. In addition, the value of the transaction may be reduced by potential liabilities related to post-closing adjustments and indemnities, which could adversely affect our results of operations.

We face inherent risk of exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury.

Our business involves a risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. Additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. As a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. Additionally, as our private-label business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. Another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. In addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. The improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. In addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. We have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. In many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation.

Our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing.

Competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. Our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors:

• the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs;

• our ability to enhance our products and services to satisfy customer requirements; and

• our ability to provide ongoing technical support.

We cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. Our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. We cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. Any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software as well as our reputation. We do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark



and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. We cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products.

We rely on third parties for certain technologically advanced products.

Some of our products contain technologically advanced components, including software, that are developed by third parties. We may not be able to replace the functions provided by these third-party components or products if they become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or with our services and solutions, or if they are not adequately maintained or updated.

In addition, third-party suppliers of software or other intellectual property assets could be unwilling to permit us to use their intellectual property and this could impede or disrupt use of their products or services by us and our customers. Alternate sources for the technology currently provided by third parties to us may not be available to us in a timely manner, and may not provide us with the same functions as currently provided to us or may be more expensive than products we currently use or sell.

Further, the risk of intellectual property infringement claims against us may increase as we expand our business to include more technologically advanced products and continue to incorporate third party components, software and/or other intellectual property into the products we sell. Also, individuals and firms have purchased intellectual property assets in order to assert claims of infringement against technology providers and customers that use such technology. Any infringement action brought against us or our customers could be costly to defend or lead to an expensive settlement or judgment against us.

The risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results and our reputation.

Security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could materially adversely affect our business, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if such products, services or systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, are subject to cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of time.

We rely on information systems (IS) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store customer, product, supplier and employee data to, among other things:

• maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers;

• receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;

• manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers;

• process payments to suppliers; and

• provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers’ electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their patients).

Information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a cyberattack that bypasses our IS security systems (including third-party systems we rely on) causing an IS security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IS business systems (including third-party systems we rely on) and/or the loss of business information resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, as well as claims against us by affected parties and/or governmental agencies, and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses.



In addition, we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack that bypasses the IS security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could also cause significant reputational harm, and actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. In particular, certain of our practice management products and services purchased by health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, are used to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers are subject to laws and regulations which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses.

Regarding direct customer claims, although our customer license agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges, or that we will be able to obtain such provisions in all cases.

In addition, our information systems also utilize certain third party service organizations that manage a portion of our information systems, and our business may be materially adversely affected if these third party service organizations are subject to a cyber attack. Additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services.

Risks associated with these and other IS security breaches may include, among other things:

• future results could be materially adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property;

• operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of information systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities;

• procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new IS challenges, and enhancing protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional costs on us;

• we may incur claims, fines and penalties, and costs for remediation, or substantial defense and settlement expenses; and

• negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers.

We also deliver Internet-based services and, accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our customers to access the Internet. In the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by Internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing such services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation.

We have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. Successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation.



Certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares.

The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions, among other things:

• require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and

• require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions.

In addition, our 2013 Stock Incentive Plan and 2015 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. These incentive plans also authorize the committee under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock/unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. Further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason, in each case within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control.

Tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities.

We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. On December 22, 2017, the President signed the Tax Act into law, which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2019 fiscal year.



ITEM 2. Properties

We own or lease the following properties with more than 100,000 square feet:

Own or

Approximate

Lease Expiration

Property

Location

Lease

Square Footage

Date

Corporate Headquarters

Melville, NY

Lease

185,000

June 2020

Corporate Headquarters

Melville, NY

Own

105,000

N/A

Office and Distribution Center

Fiumana-Predappio, Italy

Own

183,000

N/A

Office and Distribution Center

Tours, France

Own

166,000

N/A

Office and Distribution Center

Gillingham, United Kingdom

Lease/Own

165,000

June 2033

Office and Distribution Center

Eastern Creek, New South Wales, Australia

Lease

161,000

July 2030

Office and Distribution Center

Niagara on the Lake, Canada

Lease

128,000

September 2021

Office and Distribution Center

Bastian, VA

Own

108,000

N/A

Office and Distribution Center

West Allis, WI

Lease

106,000

October 2027

Office and Distribution Center

Geer, SC

Lease

102,000

December 2028

Distribution Center

Denver, PA

Lease

624,000

December 2021

Distribution Center

Indianapolis, IN

Lease

380,000

March 2022

Distribution Center

Sparks, NV

Lease

370,000

December 2021

Distribution Center

Indianapolis, IN

Own

287,000

N/A

Distribution Center

Grapevine, TX

Lease

242,000

July 2023

Distribution Center

Gallin, Germany

Own

215,000

N/A

Distribution Center

Jacksonville, FL

Lease

212,000

February 2026

Distribution Center

Heppenheim, Germany

Lease

194,000

March 2030

The properties listed in the table above are our principal properties primarily used by our health care distribution segment. In addition, we lease numerous other distribution, office, showroom, manufacturing and sales space in locations including the United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom.

We believe that our properties are in good condition, are well maintained and are suitable and adequate to carry on our business. We have additional operating capacity at certain distribution center facilities.



ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings

On August 31, 2012, Archer and White Sales, Inc. (“Archer”) filed a complaint against Henry Schein, Inc. as well as Danaher Corporation and its subsidiaries Instrumentarium Dental, Inc., Dental Equipment, LLC, Kavo Dental Technologies, LLC and Dental Imaging Technologies Corporation (collectively, the “Danaher Defendants”) in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Civil Action No. 2:12-CV-00572-JRG, styled as an antitrust action under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, and the Texas Free Enterprise Antitrust Act. Archer alleges a conspiracy between Henry Schein, an unnamed company and the Danaher Defendants to terminate or limit Archer’s distribution rights. On August 1, 2017, Archer filed an amended complaint, adding Patterson Companies, Inc. (“Patterson”) and Benco Dental Supply Co. (“Benco”) as defendants, and alleging that Henry Schein, Patterson, Benco and Burkhart Dental Supply conspired to fix prices and refused to compete with each other for sales of dental equipment to dental professionals and agreed to enlist their common suppliers, the Danaher Defendants, to join a price-fixing conspiracy and boycott by reducing the distribution territory of, and eventually terminating, their price-cutting competing distributor Archer. Archer seeks damages in an amount to be proved at trial, to be trebled with interest and costs, including attorneys’ fees, jointly and severally, as well as injunctive relief. On October 30, 2017, Archer filed a second amended complaint, to add additional allegations that it believes support its claims. The named parties and causes of action are the same as the August 1, 2017 amended complaint.

On October 1, 2012, we filed a motion for an order: (i) compelling Archer to arbitrate its claims against us; (2) staying all proceedings pending arbitration; and (3) joining the Danaher Defendants’ motion to arbitrate and stay. On May 28, 2013, the Magistrate Judge granted the motions to arbitrate and stayed proceedings pending arbitration. On June 10, 2013, Archer moved for reconsideration before the District Court judge. On December 7, 2016, the District Court Judge granted Archer’s motion for reconsideration and lifted the stay. Defendants appealed the District Court’s order. On December 21, 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the District Court’s order denying the motions to compel arbitration. On June 25, 2018, the Supreme Court of the United States granted defendants’ petition for writ of certiorari. On October 29, 2018, the Supreme Court heard oral arguments. On January 8, 2019, the Supreme Court issued its published decision vacating the judgment of the Fifth Circuit and remanding the case to the Fifth Circuit for further proceedings consistent with the Supreme Court’s opinion. On April 2, 2019, the District Court stayed the proceeding in the trial court pending resolution by the Fifth Circuit. The Fifth Circuit heard oral argument on May 1, 2019 on whether the case should be arbitrated. The Fifth Circuit issued its opinion on August 14, 2019 affirming the District Court’s order denying defendants’ motions to compel arbitration. Defendants filed a petition for rehearing en banc before the Fifth Circuit. The Fifth Circuit denied that petition. On October 1, 2019, the District Court set the case for trial on February 3, 2020, which was subsequently moved to January 29, 2020. On January 24, 2020 the Supreme Court granted our motion to stay the District Court proceedings, pending the disposition of our petition for writ of certiorari, which was filed on January 31, 2020. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously against this action.

On August 17, 2017, IQ Dental Supply, Inc. (“IQ Dental”) filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, entitled IQ Dental Supply, Inc. v. Henry Schein, Inc., Patterson Companies, Inc. and Benco Dental Supply Company, Case No. 2:17-cv-4834. Plaintiff alleged that it is a distributor of dental supplies and equipment, and sells dental products through an online dental distribution platform operated by SourceOne Dental (“SourceOne”). SourceOne had previously brought an antitrust lawsuit against Henry Schein, Patterson and Benco, which Henry Schein settled in the second quarter of 2017 and which is described in our prior filings with the SEC.

IQ Dental alleged, among other things, that defendants conspired to suppress competition from IQ Dental and SourceOne for the marketing, distribution and sale of dental supplies and equipment in the United States, and that defendants unlawfully agreed with one another to boycott dentists, manufacturers and state dental associations that deal with, or considered dealing with, plaintiff and SourceOne. Plaintiff claimed that this alleged conduct constitutes unreasonable restraint of trade in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, New York’s Donnelly Act and the New Jersey Antitrust Act, and also made pendant state law claims for tortious interference with prospective business relations, civil conspiracy and aiding and abetting. Plaintiff sought injunctive relief, compensatory, treble and punitive damages, jointly and severally, and reasonable costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees and expert fees. On December 21, 2017, the District Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss. On January 19,



2018, IQ Dental appealed the District Court’s order. On May 10, 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part the District Court’s dismissal of the complaint, holding that IQ Dental lacks antitrust standing to challenge the alleged boycott of SourceOne and state dental associations, but that it has standing to challenge injury related to the alleged direct boycott of its business. On June 29, 2019, the Second Circuit denied IQ Dental’s petition for rehearing or rehearing en banc. On January 8, 2020, Henry Schein and IQ Dental entered into a settlement agreement, pursuant to which Henry Schein paid an amount which is not material. Henry Schein was dismissed from the case on January 16, 2020.

On February 12, 2018, the United States Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) filed a complaint against Benco Dental Supply Co., Henry Schein, Inc. and Patterson Companies, Inc. The FTC alleged, among other things, that defendants violated U.S. antitrust laws by conspiring, and entering into an agreement, to refuse to provide discounts to or otherwise serve buying groups representing dental practitioners. The FTC alleged that defendants conspired in violation of Section 5 of the FTC Act. The complaint sought equitable relief only and does not seek monetary damages. We denied the allegation that we conspired to refuse to provide discounts to or otherwise serve dental buying groups. A hearing before an administrative law judge began on October 16, 2018 and the hearing record was closed on February 21, 2019. On October 7, 2019, the administrative law judge issued his Initial Decision, finding in relevant part that the “evidence fails to prove a conspiracy involving Schein,” and dismissing the complaint as to Henry Schein. The Initial Decision became the decision of the FTC on November 7, 2019 and is not subject to further appeal.

On March 7, 2018, Joseph Salkowitz, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated, filed a putative class action complaint for violation of the federal securities laws against Henry Schein, Inc., Stanley M. Bergman and Steven Paladino in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, Case No. 1:18-cv-01428. The complaint sought to certify a class consisting of all persons and entities who, subject to certain exclusions, purchased Henry Schein securities from March 7, 2013 through February 12, 2018 (the “Class Period”). The complaint alleged, among other things, that the defendants had made materially false and misleading statements about Henry Schein’s business, operations and prospects during the Class Period, including matters relating to the issues in the In re Dental Supplies Antitrust Litigation which Henry Schein settled and which the court dismissed in June 2019, as described in our prior filings with the SEC, and the FTC action described above, thereby causing the plaintiff and members of the purported class to pay artificially inflated prices for Henry Schein securities. The complaint sought unspecified monetary damages and a jury trial. Pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “PSLRA”), the court appointed lead plaintiff and lead counsel on June 22, 2018 and recaptioned the putative class action as In re Henry Schein, Inc. Securities Litigation, under the same case number. Lead plaintiff filed a consolidated class action complaint on September 14, 2018. The consolidated class action complaint asserts similar claims against the same defendants (plus Timothy Sullivan) on behalf of the same putative class of purchasers during the Class Period. It alleges that Henry Schein’s stock price was inflated during that period because Henry Schein had misleadingly portrayed its dental-distribution business “as successfully producing excellent profits while operating in a highly competitive environment” even though, “in reality, [Henry Schein] had engaged for years in collusive and anticompetitive practices in order to maintain Schein’s margins, profits, and market share.” The complaint alleges that the stock price started to fall from August 8, 2017, when the company announced below-expected financial performance that allegedly “revealed that Schein’s poor results were a product of abandoning prior attempts to inflate sales volume and margins through anticompetitive collusion,” through February 13, 2018, after the FTC filed a complaint against Benco, Henry Schein and Patterson alleging that they violated U.S. antitrust laws. The complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. On September 27, 2019, the court issued a decision partially granting and partially denying defendants’ motion to dismiss the securities action. The court dismissed all claims against Messrs. Bergman and Paladino as well as the Section 10(b) claim against Henry Schein to the extent that that claim relied on the Company’s financial results and margins to allege a material misstatement or omission. The court also dismissed the Section 10(b) claim against Henry Schein to the extent that it relied on the Company’s August 8, 2017 disclosure to allege loss causation. The court otherwise denied the motion as to Henry Schein and Mr. Sullivan. Henry Schein and Mr. Sullivan moved for partial reconsideration of the court’s decision. Pursuant to all parties’ request, the court temporarily took the motion off the calendar after it was fully briefed. The parties have agreed to a resolution of this matter, subject to various conditions, including the drafting and execution of a definitive settlement agreement and court approval. The



contemplated settlement, if finally approved, would have no earnings impact to the Company as all payments would be covered by insurance. Henry Schein had previously received a request under 8 Del. C. § 220 to inspect corporate books and records relating to the issues raised in the securities class action and the antitrust matters discussed above.

On May 3, 2018, a purported class action complaint, Marion Diagnostic Center, LLC, et al. v. Becton, Dickinson, and Co., et al., Case No. 3:18-cv-010509, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois against Becton, Dickinson, and Co. (“Becton”); Premier, Inc. (“Premier”), Vizient, Inc. (“Vizient”), Cardinal Health, Inc. (“Cardinal”), Owens & Minor Inc. (“O&M”), Henry Schein, Inc., and Unnamed Becton Distributor Co-Conspirators. The complaint alleges that the defendants entered into a vertical conspiracy to force health care providers into long-term exclusionary contracts that restrain trade in the nationwide markets for conventional and safety syringes and safety IV catheters and inflate the prices of certain Becton products to above-competitive levels. The named plaintiffs seek to represent three separate classes consisting of all health care providers that purchased (i) Becton’s conventional syringes, (ii) Becton’s safety syringes, or (iii) Becton’s safety catheters directly from Becton, Premier, Vizient, Cardinal, O&M or Henry Schein on or after May 3, 2014. The complaint asserts a single count under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, and seeks equitable relief, treble damages, reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs and expenses, and pre-judgment and post-judgment interest. On June 15, 2018, an amended complaint was filed asserting the same allegations against the same parties and adding McKesson Medical-Surgical, Inc. as a defendant. On November 30, 2018, the District Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and entered a final judgment, dismissing plaintiffs’ complaint with prejudice. On December 27, 2018, plaintiffs appealed the District Court’s decision to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The parties argued the appeal on September 27, 2019 and are currently awaiting the Seventh Circuit’s ruling.

On May 29, 2018, an amended complaint was filed in the MultiDistrict Litigation (“MDL”) proceeding In Re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804; Case No. 17-md-2804) in an action entitled The County of Summit, Ohio et al. v. Purdue Pharma, L.P., et al., Civil Action No. 1:18-op-45090-DAP (“County of Summit Action”), in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, adding Henry Schein, Inc., Henry Schein Medical Systems, Inc. and others as defendants. Summit County alleges that manufacturers of prescription opioid drugs engaged in a false advertising campaign to expand the market for such drugs and their own market share and that the entities in the supply chain (including Henry Schein, Inc. and Henry Schein Medical Systems, Inc.) reaped financial rewards by refusing or otherwise failing to monitor appropriately and restrict the improper distribution of those drugs. On October 29, 2019, the Company was dismissed with prejudice from this lawsuit. Henry Schein, working with Summit County, donated $1 million to a foundation dedicated to making grants to programs within Summit County focused on (i) educating the community on alternative pain management treatment techniques and/or avoiding addiction; ‎(ii) supporting research into alternative pain management techniques and protocols; (iii) enabling professionals to obtain the necessary certification for a Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT) Waiver; and (iv) advancing programs and services to Summit County to deliver results and solutions to the opiate and addiction crises. Henry Schein paid $250,000 of Summit County’s expenses.

In addition to the County of Summit Action, Henry Schein and/or one or more of its affiliated companies have currently been named as a defendant in multiple lawsuits (currently less than one-hundred and twenty-five (125)), which allege claims similar to those alleged in the County of Summit Action. At this time, the only case set for trial is the action filed by Tuscon Medical Center, which is currently scheduled for a 30-day trial beginning on March 16, 2021. These actions consist of some that have been consolidated within the MDL and are currently abated for discovery purposes, and others which remain pending in state courts and are proceeding independently and outside of the MDL. Of Henry Schein’s 2018 revenue of $9.4 billion from continuing operations, sales of opioids represented less than one-tenth of 1 percent. Opioids represent a negligible part of our business. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously against these actions.

On January 29, 2019, a purported class action complaint was filed by R. Lawrence Hatchett, M.D. against Henry Schein, Inc., Patterson Co., Inc., Benco Dental Supply Co., and unnamed co-conspirators in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges that members of the proposed class suffered antitrust injury due to an unlawful boycott, price-fixing or otherwise anticompetitive conspiracy among Henry Schein, Patterson and Benco. The complaint alleges that the alleged conspiracy overcharged Illinois dental practices,



orthodontic practices and dental laboratories on their purchase of dental supplies, which in turn passed on some or all of such overcharges to members of the class. Subject to certain exclusions, the complaint defines the class as “all persons residing in Illinois purchasing and/or reimbursing for dental care provided by independent Illinois dental practices purchasing dental supplies from the defendants, or purchasing from buying groups purchasing these supplies from the defendants, on or after January 29, 2015.” The complaint alleges violations of the Illinois Antitrust Act, 740 Ill. Comp. Stat. §§ 10/3(2), 10/7(2), and seeks a permanent injunction, actual damages to be determined at trial, trebled, reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs, and pre- and post-judgment interest. On February 13, 2020, the court granted our motion to dismiss for lack of standing, and dismissed the action with prejudice.

On September 30, 2019, City of Hollywood Police Officers Retirement System, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated, filed a putative class action complaint for violation of the federal securities laws against Henry Schein, Inc., Covetrus, Inc., and Benjamin Shaw and Christine Komola (Covetrus’s then Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively) in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, Case No. 2:19-cv-05530-FB-RLM. The complaint seeks to certify a class consisting of all persons and entities who, subject to certain exclusions, purchased or otherwise acquired Covetrus common stock from February 8, 2019 through August 12, 2019. The case relates to the Animal Health Spin-off and Merger of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business with Vets First Choice in February 2019. The complaint alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5 and asserts that defendants’ statements in the offering documents and after the transaction were materially false and misleading because they purportedly overstated Covetrus’s capabilities as to inventory management and supply-chain services, understated the costs of integrating the Henry Schein Animal Health Business and Vets First Choice, understated Covetrus’s separation costs from Henry Schein, and understated the impact on earnings from online competition and alternative distribution channels and from the loss of an allegedly large customer in North America just before the Separation and Merger. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and a jury trial. Pursuant to the provisions of the PSLRA, the court appointed lead plaintiff and lead counsel on December 23, 2019. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously against this action.

On November 15, 2019, Frank Finazzo filed a putative shareholder derivative action on behalf of Henry Schein, Inc. against various present and former directors and officers of Henry Schein in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, Case No. 1:19-cv-6485-LDH-JO. The named defendants in the action are Stanley M. Bergman, Steven Paladino, Timothy J. Sullivan, Barry J. Alperin, Lawrence S. Bacow, Gerald A. Benjamin, James P. Breslawski, Paul Brons, Shira Goodman, Joseph L. Herring, Donald J. Kabat, Kurt Kuehn, Philip A. Laskawy, Anne H. Margulies, Karyn Mashima, Norman S. Matthews, Mark E. Mlotek, Carol Raphael, E. Dianne Rekow, Bradley T. Sheares, and Louis W. Sullivan, with Henry Schein named as a nominal defendant. The Complaint asserts claims under the federal securities laws and state law relating to the allegations in the antitrust actions, the

In re Henry Schein, Inc. Securities Litigation

, and the

City of Hollywood

securities class action described above. The complaint seeks declaratory, injunctive, and monetary relief on behalf of Henry Schein. On January 6, 2020, counsel who filed the

Finazzo

case filed another, virtually identical putative shareholder derivative action on behalf of Henry Schein against the same defendants, asserting the same claims and seeking the same relief. That case, captioned

Mark Sloan v. Stanley M. Bergman, et al.

, is also pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, Case No. 1:20-cv-0076. On January 24, 2020, the court consolidated the

Finazzo

and

Sloan

cases under the new caption

In re Henry Schein, Inc. Derivative Litigation,

No. 1:19-cv-06485-LDH-JO, and appointed the counsel in these cases as co-lead counsel for the consolidated action. The parties have agreed to a resolution of this matter subject to various conditions, including the drafting and execution of a definitive settlement agreement and court approval. The contemplated settlement, if finally approved, would involve the adoption of certain procedures but would not involve the payment of any money except a fee to the plaintiffs’ attorneys that is immaterial.

From time to time, we may become a party to other legal proceedings, including, without limitation, product liability claims, employment matters, commercial disputes, governmental inquiries and investigations (which may in some cases involve our entering into settlement arrangements or consent decrees), and other matters arising out of the ordinary course of our business. While the results of any legal proceeding cannot be predicted with certainty, in our opinion none of these other pending matters are currently anticipated to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations.



As of December 28, 2019, we had accrued our best estimate of potential losses relating to claims that were probable to result in liability and for which we were able to reasonably estimate a loss. This accrued amount, as well as related expenses, was not material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our method for determining estimated losses considers currently available facts, presently enacted laws and regulations and other factors, including probable recoveries from third parties.

ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.



PART II

ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market tier of the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, under the symbol HSIC.

On February 14, 2020, there were approximately 269 holders of record of our common stock and the last reported sales price was $72.13.

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer

Our share repurchase program, announced on March 3, 2003, originally allowed us to repurchase up to two million shares pre-stock splits (eight million shares post-stock splits) of our common stock, which represented approximately 2.3% of the shares outstanding at the commencement of the program. As summarized in the table below, subsequent additional increases totaling $3.7 billion, authorized by our Board of Directors, to the repurchase program provide for a total of $3.8 billion of shares of our common stock to be repurchased under this program.

Date of

Amount of Additional

Authorization

Repurchases Authorized

June 21, 2004

$

100,000,000

October 31, 2005

100,000,000

March 28, 2007

100,000,000

November 16, 2010

100,000,000

August 18, 2011

200,000,000

April 18, 2012

200,000,000

November 12, 2012

300,000,000

December 9, 2013

300,000,000

December 4, 2014

300,000,000

November 30, 2015

400,000,000

October 18, 2016

400,000,000

September 15, 2017

400,000,000

December 12, 2018

400,000,000

October 30, 2019

400,000,000

As of December 28, 2019, we had repurchased approximately $3.5 billion of common stock (74,363,289 shares) under these initiatives, with $275.0 million available for future common stock share repurchases.



The following table summarizes repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase program during the fiscal quarter ended December 28, 2019:

Total Number

Maximum Number

Total

of Shares

of Shares

Number

Average

Purchased as Part

that May Yet

of Shares

Price Paid

of Our Publicly

Be Purchased Under

Fiscal Month

Purchased (1)

Per Share

Announced Program

Our Program (2)

9/29/19 through 11/02/19

-

$

-

7,503,954

11/03/19 through 11/30/19

795,000

69.40

795,000

6,093,247

12/01/19 through 12/28/19

2,101,656

68.91

2,101,656

4,130,374

2,896,656

2,896,656

(1)

All repurchases were executed in the open market under our existing publicly announced authorized program. This table excludes shares withheld from employees to satisfy minimum tax withholding requirements for equity-based transactions.

(2)

The maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under this program is determined at the end of each month based on the

closing price of our common stock at that time.

Dividend Policy

We have not declared any cash or stock dividends on our common stock during fiscal years 2019 or 2018. We currently do not anticipate declaring any cash or stock dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings to finance the expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes, including our share repurchase program. Any declaration of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, contractual restrictions with respect to payment of dividends and other factors.



Stock Performance Graph

The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on $100 invested, assuming the reinvestment of all dividends, on December 27, 2014, the last trading day before the beginning of our 2015 fiscal year, through the end of our 2019 fiscal year with the cumulative total return on $100 invested for the same period in the Dow Jones U.S. Health Care Index and the Nasdaq Stock Market Composite Index.

COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN

ASSUMES $100 INVESTED ON DECEMBER 27, 2014

ASSUMES DIVIDENDS REINVESTED

December 27,

December 26,

December 31,

December 30,

December 29,

December 28,







Henry Schein, Inc.

$

100.00

$

114.34

$

110.43

$

101.73

$

113.43

$

125.14

Dow Jones U.S. Health

Care Index

100.00

105.95

102.82

126.30

132.27

163.32

NASDAQ Stock Market

Composite Index

100.00

106.25

114.75

148.76

143.41

198.30



ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data

The following selected financial data, with respect to our financial position and results of operations for each of the five fiscal years in the period ended December 28, 2019, set forth below, has been derived from, should be read in conjunction with and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. The selected financial data presented below should also be read in conjunction with ITEM 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and ITEM 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Years ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,

December 31,

December 26,






(in thousands, except per share data)

Income Statement Data:

Net sales

$

9,985,803

$

9,417,603

$

8,883,438

$

8,218,885

$

7,650,755

Gross profit

3,090,886

2,910,747

2,746,662

2,605,907

2,476,068

Selling, general and administrative expenses

2,357,920

2,217,273

2,071,576

1,975,445

1,869,351

Litigation settlements

-

38,488

5,325

-

-

Restructuring costs (1)

14,705

54,367

-

38,621

26,587

Operating income

718,261

600,619

669,761

591,841

580,130

Other expense, net

(37,954)

(63,783)

(39,967)

(18,705)

(17,904)

Income from continuing operations before taxes, equity

in earnings of affiliates and noncontrolling interests

680,307

536,836

629,794

573,136

562,226

Income taxes (2)

(159,515)

(107,432)

(308,975)

(169,311)

(170,113)

Equity in earnings of affiliates

17,900

21,037

15,293

17,110

13,300

Net gain (loss) on sale of equity investments (3)

186,769

-

(17,636)

-

-

Net income from continuing operations

725,461

450,441

318,476

420,935

405,413

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

(6,323)

111,685

140,817

135,460

118,014

Net income

719,138

562,126

459,293

556,395

523,427

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

(24,770)

(19,724)

(25,304)

(19,651)

(19,705)

Less: Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling

interests from discontinued operations


(6,521)

(27,690)

(29,966)

(24,664)

Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.

$

694,734

$

535,881

$

406,299

$

506,778

$

479,058

Amounts attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.:

Continuing operations

700,691

430,717

293,172

401,284

385,708

Discontinued operations

(5,957)

105,164

113,127

105,494

93,350

Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.

$

694,734

$

535,881

$

406,299

$

506,778

$

479,058

Earnings (loss) per share attributable to

Henry Schein, Inc.:

From continuing operations:

Basic

$

4.74

$

2.82

$

1.87

$

2.48

$

2.33

Diluted

4.69

2.80

1.85

2.45

2.29

From discontinued operations:

Basic

$

(0.04)

$

0.69

$

0.72

$

0.65

$

0.56

Diluted

(0.04)

0.68

0.72

0.64

0.55

Earnings per share attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.:

Basic

$

4.70

$

3.51

$

2.59

$

3.14

$

2.89

Diluted

4.65

3.49

2.57

3.10

2.85

Weighted-average common shares outstanding:

Basic

147,817

152,656

156,787

161,641

165,687

Diluted

149,257

153,707

158,208

163,723

168,250



Years ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,

December 31,

December 26,






(in thousands)

Net Sales by Market Data:

Health care distribution (4):

Dental

$

6,415,865

$

6,347,998

$

6,047,811

$

5,554,296

$

5,275,405

Medical

2,973,586

2,661,166

2,497,994

2,337,661

2,072,915

Total health care distribution

9,389,451

9,009,164

8,545,805

7,891,957

7,348,320

Technology and value-added services (5)

515,085

408,439

337,633

326,928

302,435

Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues

9,904,536

9,417,603

8,883,438

8,218,885

7,650,755

Corporate TSA revenues (6)

81,267

-

-

-

-

Total

$

9,985,803

$

9,417,603

$

8,883,438

$

8,218,885

$

7,650,755

As of

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,

December 31,

December 26,






(in thousands)

Balance Sheet Data:

Total assets

$

7,151,101

$

8,500,527

$

7,863,995

$

6,811,763

$

6,580,775

Long-term debt

622,908

980,344

884,227

689,626

439,830

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

287,258

219,724

465,584

285,567

266,435

Stockholders' equity

3,630,137

3,541,788

2,824,410

2,800,804

2,886,814



ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

In accordance with the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we provide the following cautionary remarks regarding important factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied herein. All forward-looking statements made by us are subject to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance and achievements or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These statements are generally identified by the use of such terms as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “anticipate,” “to be,” “to make” or other comparable terms. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular the risks discussed under the caption “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Risk factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current and historical results include, but are not limited to: effects of a highly competitive and consolidating market; increased competition by third party commerce sites; our dependence on third parties for the manufacture and supply of our products; our dependence upon sales personnel, customers, suppliers and manufacturers; our dependence on our senior management; fluctuations in quarterly earnings; risks from expansion of customer purchasing power and multi-tiered costing structures; increases in shipping costs for our products or other service issues with our third-party shippers; general global macro-economic conditions; risks associated with currency fluctuations; risks associated with political and economic uncertainty; disruptions in financial markets; volatility of the market price of our common stock; changes in the health care industry; implementation of health care laws; failure to comply with regulatory requirements and data privacy laws; risks associated with our global operations; risks associated with the Coronavirus; risks associated with the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union; transitional challenges associated with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures, including the failure to achieve anticipated synergies/benefits; financial and tax risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures; litigation risks; new or unanticipated litigation developments and the status of litigation matters; the dependence on our continued product development, technical support and successful marketing in the technology segment; our dependence on third parties for certain technologically advanced components; risks from disruption to our information systems; cyberattacks or other privacy or data security breaches; certain provisions in our governing documents that may discourage third-party acquisitions of us; and changes in tax legislation. The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.

We caution that these factors may not be exhaustive and that many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Accordingly, any forward-looking statements contained herein should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. We undertake no duty and have no obligation to update forward-looking statements.

Where You Can Find Important Information

We may disclose important information through one or more of the following channels: SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts, press releases, the investor relations page of our website (

www.henryschein.com

) and the social media channels identified on the Newsroom page of our website.

Recent Developments

During the fourth quarter of 2019, we sold an equity investment in Hu-Friedy Mfg. Co., LLC, a manufacturer of dental instruments and infection prevention solutions. Our investment was non-controlling, we were not involved in running the business and had no representation on the board of directors. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we also sold certain other equity investments. In aggregate, the sales of these investments resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $250.2 million and an after-tax gain of approximately $186.8 million.



On February 7, 2019 (the “Distribution Date”), we completed the separation (the “Separation”) and subsequent merger of our animal health business (the “Henry Schein Animal Health Business”) with Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. (d/b/a Vets First Choice, “Vets First Choice”) (the “Merger”). This was accomplished by a series of transactions among us, Vets First Choice, Covetrus, Inc. (f/k/a HS Spinco, Inc. “Covetrus”), a wholly owned subsidiary of ours prior to the Distribution Date, and HS Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus (“Merger Sub”). In connection with the Separation, we contributed, assigned and transferred to Covetrus certain applicable assets, liabilities and capital stock or other ownership interests relating to the Henry Schein Animal Health Business. On the Distribution Date, we received a tax-free distribution of $1,120 million from Covetrus pursuant to certain debt financing incurred by Covetrus. On the Distribution Date and prior to the Animal Health Spin-off, Covetrus issued shares of Covetrus common stock to certain institutional accredited investors (the “Share Sale Investors”) for $361.1 million (the “Share Sale”). The proceeds of the Share Sale were paid to Covetrus and distributed to us. Subsequent to the Share Sale, we distributed, on a pro rata basis, all of the shares of the common stock of Covetrus held by us to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 17, 2019 (the “Animal Health Spin-off”). After the Share Sale and Animal Health Spin-off, Merger Sub consummated the Merger whereby it merged with and into Vets First Choice, with Vets First Choice surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus. Immediately following the consummation of the Merger, on a fully diluted basis, (i) approximately 63% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by our stockholders and the Share Sale Investors, and (b) held by certain employees of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business (in the form of certain equity awards), and (ii) approximately 37% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by stockholders of Vets First Choice immediately prior to the Merger, and (b) held by certain employees of Vets First Choice (in the form of certain equity awards). After the Separation and the Merger, we no longer beneficially owned any shares of Covetrus common stock and, following the Distribution Date, will not consolidate the financial results of Covetrus for the purpose of our financial reporting. Following the Separation and the Merger, Covetrus was an independent, publicly traded company on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

Executive-Level Overview

We believe we are the world’s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office-based dental and medical practitioners. We serve more than 1 million customers worldwide including dental practitioners and laboratories and physician practices, as well as government, institutional health care clinics and other alternate care clinics. We believe that we have a strong brand identity due to our more than 87 years of experience distributing health care products.

We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 19,000 people (of which more than 9,400 are based outside the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 31 countries, including the United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom.

We have established strategically located distribution centers to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’ needs. Our infrastructure also allows us to provide convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order fulfillment.

We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base.

The health care distribution reportable segment aggregates our global dental and medical operating segments. This segment distributes consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins. Our global dental group serves office-based dental practitioners, dental laboratories, schools and other institutions. Our global medical group serves office-based medical practitioners, ambulatory surgery centers, other alternate-care settings and other institutions.



Our global technology and value-added services group provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners. Our technology group offerings include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners. Our value-added practice solutions include financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, practice technology, network and hardware services, as well as continuing education services for practitioners.

Industry Overview

In recent years, the health care industry has increasingly focused on cost containment. This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices. It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management.

Our operating results in recent years have been significantly affected by strategies and transactions that we undertook to expand our business, domestically and internationally, in part to address significant changes in the health care industry, including consolidation of health care distribution companies, health care reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare and collective purchasing arrangements.

Our current and future results have been and could be impacted by the current economic environment and uncertainty, particularly impacting overall demand for our products and services.

Industry Consolidation

The health care products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented and diverse. The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their practices.

Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment. The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by the practitioner or an administrative assistant. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier.

The trend of consolidation extends to our customer base. Health care practitioners are increasingly seeking to partner, affiliate or combine with larger entities such as hospitals, health systems, group practices or physician hospital organizations. In many cases, purchasing decisions for consolidated groups are made at a centralized or professional staff level; however, orders are delivered to the practitioners’ offices.

We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base.

Our trend with regard to acquisitions and joint ventures has been to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. This trend has resulted in our expansion into service areas that complement our existing operations and provide opportunities for us to develop synergies with, and thus strengthen, the acquired businesses.



As industry consolidation continues, we believe that we are positioned to capitalize on this trend, as we believe we have the ability to support increased sales through our existing infrastructure, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully accomplish this. We also have invested in expanding our sales/marketing infrastructure to include a focus on building relationships with decision makers who do not reside in the office-based practitioner setting.

As the health care industry continues to change, we continually evaluate possible candidates for merger and joint venture or acquisition and intend to continue to seek opportunities to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully pursue any such opportunity or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, we would incur merger and/or acquisition-related costs, and there can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful.

Aging Population and Other Market Influences

The health care products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to the aging population, increased health care awareness, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage. In addition, the physician market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians’ offices.

According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s International Data Base, in 2019 there were more than six and a half` million Americans aged 85 years or older, the segment of the population most in need of long-term care and elder-care services. By the year 2050, that number is projected to nearly triple to approximately 19 million. The population aged 65 to 84 years is projected to increase by approximately 41% during the same time period.

As a result of these market dynamics, annual expenditures for health care services continue to increase in the United States. We believe that demand for our products and services will grow, while continuing to be impacted by current and future operating, economic and industry conditions. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, published “National Health Expenditure Projections 2018-2027” indicating that total national health care spending reached approximately $3.6 trillion in 2018, or 17.7% of the nation’s gross domestic product, the benchmark measure for annual production of goods and services in the United States. Health care spending is projected to reach approximately $6.0 trillion in 2027, approximately 19.4% of the nation’s projected gross domestic product.

Government

Certain of our businesses involve the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard we are subject to extensive local, state, federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Additionally, government and private insurance programs fund a large portion of the total cost of medical care, and there has been an emphasis on efforts to control medical costs, including laws and regulations lowering reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and/or medical treatments or services. Also, many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and may impact our financial performance. In addition, our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial performance, including securities, antitrust, anti-bribery and anti-kickback, customer interaction transparency, data privacy, data security and other laws and regulations. Failure to comply with law or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Health Care Reform

The United States Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010 (the “Health Care Reform Law”) increased federal oversight of private health insurance plans and included a number of provisions designed to reduce Medicare expenditures and the cost of health care generally, to reduce fraud and abuse, and to provide access to increased health coverage.



The Health Care Reform Law included a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that was to begin in 2013 and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics. The fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics was implemented in 2011. However, subsequent federal laws had suspended the imposition of the medical device excise tax through December 31, 2019, and the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, signed into law on December 20, 2019, has permanently repealed the medical device excise tax. The Health Care Reform Law has also materially expanded the number of individuals in the United States with health insurance. The Health Care Reform Law has faced ongoing legal challenges, including litigation seeking to invalidate some of or all of the law or the manner in which it has been implemented.

In addition, the President is seeking to repeal and replace the Health Care Reform Law. Repeal and replace legislation has been passed in the House of Representatives, but did not obtain the necessary votes in the Senate. Subsequently, the President has affirmed his intention to repeal and replace the Health Care Reform Law and has taken a number of administrative actions to materially weaken it, including, without limitation, by permitting the use of less robust plans with lower coverage and eliminating “premium support” for insurers providing policies under the Health Care Reform Law. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions, and which also repealed the individual mandate of the Health Care Reform Law. Further, in December 2019, the Fifth Circuit ruled that the mandate within the Health Care Reform Law requiring that people buy health insurance was unconstitutional, though the ruling will likely be appealed. The Fifth Circuit remanded the remainder of the case pertaining to the viability of the remainder of the Health Care Reform Law, in the absence of the individual mandate, to the District Court of the Northern District of Texas. Any outcome of these cases that changes the Health Care Reform Law, could have a significant impact on the U.S. health care industry. The uncertain status of the Health Care Reform Law affects our ability to plan.

A Health Care Reform Law provision, generally referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act or Open Payments Program, imposes annual reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers and distributors with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain covered recipients (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and distributors and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. CMS publishes information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities. Amendments expanded the law to also require reporting, effective January 1, 2022, of payments or other transfers of value to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse-midwives, and this new requirement will be effective for data collected beginning in calendar year 2021.

Under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with covered recipients such as physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. We believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable Physician Payment Sunshine Act requirements. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with these requirements, our compliance with these rules imposes additional costs on us.

Another notable Medicare health care reform initiative, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“MACRA”), enacted on April 16, 2015, established a new payment framework, called the Quality Payment Program, which modifies certain Medicare payments to “eligible clinicians,” including physicians, dentists and other practitioners. Under MACRA, certain eligible clinicians are required to participate in Medicare through the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (“MIPS”) or Advanced Alternative Payment Models (“APMs”). MIPS generally consolidated three programs (the physician quality reporting system, the value-based payment modifier and the Medicare electronic health record (“EHR”) program) into a single program in which Medicare



reimbursement to eligible clinicians includes both positive and negative payment adjustments that take into account quality, promoting interoperability, cost and improvement activities. Advanced APMs generally involve higher levels of financial and technology risk. The first MIPS performance year was 2017, and the data collected in the first performance year determines payment adjustments that began January 1, 2019. MACRA standards continue to evolve, and represent a fundamental change in physician reimbursement that is expected to provide substantial financial incentives for physicians to participate in risk contracts, and to increase physician information technology and reporting obligations. The implications of the implementation of MACRA are uncertain and will depend on future regulatory activity and physician activity in the marketplace. MACRA may encourage physicians to move from smaller practices to larger physician groups or hospital employment, leading to a consolidation of a portion of our customer base. Although we believe that we are positioned to capitalize on this consolidation trend, there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully accomplish this.

Recently, there has been increased scrutiny on drug pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by Congress, the President, and various states, including that several related bills have been introduced at the federal level. Such legislation, if enacted, could have the potential to impose additional costs on our business.

Health Care Fraud

Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. Some of these laws, referred to as “false claims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs.

The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators” who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws, and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries. Penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be severe. For example, under the federal False Claims Act, violations may result in treble damages, plus civil penalties of up to $22,927 per claim, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal False Claims Act penalties. With respect to “anti-kickback laws,” violations of, for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Law may result in civil penalties of up to $102,522 for each violation, plus up to three times the total amount of remuneration offered, paid, solicited or received, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. Notably, effective October 24, 2018, a new federal anti-kickback law (the “Eliminating Kickbacks in Recovery Act of 2018”) enacted in connection with broader addiction services legislation, may impose criminal penalties for kickbacks involving clinical laboratory services, regardless of whether the services at issue involved addiction services, and regardless of whether the services were reimbursed by a federal health care program or by a commercial health insurer. Furthermore, the Health Care Reform Law significantly strengthened the federal False Claims Act and the federal Anti-Kickback Law provisions, clarifying that a federal Anti-Kickback Law violation can be a basis for federal False Claims Act liability.

With respect to measures of this type, the United States government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. As a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance.

We also are subject to certain United States and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, German anti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years.



Failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. In addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of noncompliance.

While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Operating, Security and Licensure Standards

Certain of our businesses involve the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard we are subject to various local, state, federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Among the United States federal laws applicable to us are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (“FDC Act”), and Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act. We are also subject to comparable foreign regulations.

The FDC Act and similar foreign laws generally regulate the introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, reporting, marketing and distribution of, and record keeping for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices shipped in interstate commerce, and states may similarly regulate such activities within the state. Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, which provides authority to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases, serves as the legal basis for the United States Food and Drug Administration’s (“FDA”) regulation of human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as “HCT/P products.”

The Federal Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 brought about significant changes with respect to pharmaceutical supply chain requirements. Title II of this measure, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (“DSCSA”), is being phased in over a period of ten years, and is intended to build a national electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed in the United States. The law’s track and trace requirements applicable to manufacturers, wholesalers, repackagers and dispensers (e.g., pharmacies) of prescription drugs took effect in January 2015, and continues to be implemented. The DSCSA product tracing requirements replace the former FDA drug pedigree requirements and pre-empt certain state requirements that are inconsistent with, more stringent than, or in addition to, the DSCSA requirements.

The DSCSA also establishes certain requirements for the licensing and operation of prescription drug wholesalers and third party logistics providers (“3PLs”), and includes the eventual creation of national wholesaler and 3PL licenses in cases where states do not license such entities. The DSCSA requires that wholesalers and 3PLs distribute drugs in accordance with certain standards regarding the recordkeeping, storage and handling of prescription drugs. The DSCSA requires wholesalers and 3PLs to submit annual reports to the FDA, which include information regarding each state where the wholesaler or PL is licensed, the name and address of each facility and contact information. According to FDA guidance, states are pre-empted from imposing any licensing requirements that are inconsistent with, less stringent than, directly related to, or covered by the standards established by federal law in this area. Current state licensing requirements concerning wholesalers will remain in effect until the FDA issues new regulations as directed by the DSCSA.

We believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable DSCSA requirements.



The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 and the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012 amended the FDC Act to require the FDA to promulgate regulations to implement a unique device identification (“UDI”) system. The UDI rule phased in the implementation of the UDI regulations over seven years, generally beginning with the highest-risk devices (i.e., Class III medical devices) and ending with the lowest-risk devices. Most compliance dates were reached as of September 24, 2018, with a final set of requirements for low-risk devices being reached on September 24, 2022, which will complete the phase in. The UDI regulations require “labelers” to include unique device identifiers (“UDIs”), with a content and format prescribed by the FDA and issued under a system operated by an FDA-accredited issuing agency, on the labels and packages of medical devices, and to directly mark certain devices with UDIs. The UDI regulations also require labelers to submit certain information concerning UDI-labeled devices to the FDA, much of which information is publicly available on an FDA database, the Global Unique Device Identification Database. The UDI regulations and subsequent FDA guidance regarding the UDI requirements provide for certain exceptions, alternatives and time extensions. For example, the UDI regulations include a general exception for Class I devices exempt from the Quality System Regulation (other than record-keeping requirements and complaint files). Regulated labelers include entities such as device manufacturers, repackagers, reprocessors and relabelers that cause a device’s label to be applied or modified, with the intent that the device will be commercially distributed without any subsequent replacement or modification of the label, and include certain of our businesses.

We believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable UDI requirements.

Under the Controlled Substances Act, as a distributor of controlled substances, we are required to obtain and renew annually registrations for our facilities from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) permitting us to handle controlled substances. We are also subject to other statutory and regulatory requirements relating to the storage, sale, marketing, handling, reporting, record keeping and distribution of such drugs, in accordance with the Controlled Substances Act and its implementing regulations, and these requirements have been subject to heightened enforcement activity in recent times. We are subject to inspection by the DEA.

Certain of our businesses are also required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, the FDA, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as comparable foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies depending on the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing or sale. These businesses include those that distribute, manufacture and/or repackage prescription pharmaceuticals and/or medical devices and/or HCT/P products, or own pharmacy operations, or install, maintain or repair equipment. In addition, Section 301 of the National Organ Transplant Act, and a number of comparable state laws, impose civil and/or criminal penalties for the transfer of certain human tissue (for example, human bone products) for valuable consideration, while generally permitting payments for the reasonable costs incurred in procuring, processing, storing and distributing that tissue. We are also subject to foreign government regulation of such products. The DEA, the FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad inspection and enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend or limit the distribution of products by our distribution centers, seize or order the recall of products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. Foreign regulations subject us to similar foreign enforcement powers. Furthermore, compliance with legal requirements has required and may in the future require us to institute voluntary recalls of products we sell, which could result in financial losses and potential reputational harm. Our customers are also subject to significant federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulation.

In the European Union, the EU Medical Device Regulation No. 2017/745 (“EU MDR”) will apply as of May 26, 2020. The EU MDR significantly modifies and intensifies the regulatory compliance requirements for the medical device industry as a whole. In particular, the EU MDR imposes stricter requirements for confirmation that a product meets the regulatory requirements, including regarding a product’s clinical evaluation and a company’s quality systems and for the distribution, marketing and sale of medical devices, including post-market surveillance. Medical devices that have been assessed and/or certified under the EU Medical Device Directive may continue to be placed on the market until 2024 (or until the expiry of their certificates, if applicable and earlier); however, requirements regarding the distribution, marketing and sale including quality systems and post-market surveillance



are required to be observed by manufacturers, importers and distributors as of the application date.

Furthermore, compliance with legal requirements has required and may in the future require us to institute voluntary recalls of products we sell, which could result in financial losses and potential reputational harm. Our customers are also subject to significant federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulation.

Certain of our businesses are subject to various additional federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, and safe working conditions.

Certain of our businesses also maintain contracts with governmental agencies and are subject to certain regulatory requirements specific to government contractors.

Antitrust

The U.S. federal government, most U.S. states and many foreign countries have antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also could bring civil lawsuits against us in the United States for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims for treble damages.

Regulated Software; Electronic Health Records

The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software and digital health products intended for use in health care settings. The 21

st

Century Cures Act (the “Cures Act”), signed into law on December 13, 2016, among other things amended the medical device definition to exclude certain software from FDA regulation, including clinical decision support software that meets certain criteria. On September 27, 2019, the FDA issued a suite of guidance documents on digital health products, which incorporated applicable Cures Act standards, including regarding the types of clinical decision support tools and other software that are exempt from regulation by the FDA as medical devices. Certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements with respect to these products.

In addition, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have adopted a new pan-European General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), effective from May 25, 2018, which increased privacy rights for individuals in Europe (“Data Subjects”), including individuals who are our customers, suppliers and employees. The GDPR extended the scope of responsibilities for data controllers and data processors and generally imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies, such as us, that offer goods or services to Data Subjects or monitor their behavior (including by companies based outside of Europe). Noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues. Individual member states may impose additional requirements and penalties regarding certain matters such as employee personal data. With respect to the personal data it protects, the GDPR requires, among other things, company accountability, consents from Data Subjects or other acceptable legal basis to process the personal data, breach notifications within 72 hours, data integrity and security, and fairness and transparency regarding the storage, use or other processing of the personal data. The GDPR also, provides rights to Data Subjects relating to the modification, erasure and transporting of the personal data. In the United States, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which increases the privacy protections afforded California residents and was signed into law on June 28, 2018, became effective January 1, 2020. The CCPA generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protections regarding the collection use and disclosure of certain personal information of California residents. The California Attorney General released proposed CCPA regulations on October 10, 2019, and is required to adopt final regulations on or before July 1, 2020. In addition to providing for enforcement by the California Attorney General, the CCPA also provides for a private right of action. Entities in violation of the CCPA may be liable for substantial civil penalties. Other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly considered the adoption of similarly expansive personal privacy laws, also backed by substantial civil penalties for non-compliance. While we



believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the GDPR and CCPA requirements, our compliance with these measures is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers, and we, are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and implementing regulations (“HIPAA”) and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require the protection of the privacy and security of those records, and our products may also be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products or services to comply with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation.

Various federal initiatives involve the adoption and use by health care providers of certain electronic health care records systems and processes. The initiatives include, among others, programs that incentivize physicians and dentists, through Medicare’s MIPS, to use certified EHR technology in accordance with certain evolving requirements, including regarding quality, promoting interoperability, cost and improvement activities. Qualification for the MIPS incentive payments requires the use of EHRs that are certified as having certain capabilities designated in standards adopted by CMS and by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology of the Department of Health and Human Services (“ONC”). These standards have been subject to change.

Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified EHR systems and other products linked to MIPS and other incentive programs. In order to maintain certification of our EHR products, we must satisfy these changing governmental standards. If any of our EHR systems do not meet these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, as noted above, we are exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act. For example, on May 31, 2017, the U.S. Department of Justice announced a $155 million settlement and 5-year corporate integrity agreement involving a vendor of certified EHR systems, based on allegations that the vendor, by misrepresenting capabilities to the certifying body, caused its health care provider customers to submit false Medicare and Medicaid claims for meaningful use incentive payments in violation of the False Claims Act. While we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex reporting functionality. Although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. Certain of our businesses provide electronic practice management products that must meet these requirements. Failure to abide by electronic health data transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties, and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.

Additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the ability of these connected systems safely and effectively to exchange and use exchanged information becomes increasingly important. For example on September 6, 2017, the FDA issued final guidance to assist industry in



identifying specific considerations related to the ability of electronic medical devices to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information. As a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device.

There may be additional legislative or regulatory initiatives in the future impacting health care.

E-Commerce

Electronic commerce solutions have become an integral part of traditional health care supply and distribution relationships. Our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. The continuing advancement of online commerce requires us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address the changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings.

Through our proprietary, technologically based suite of products, we offer customers a variety of competitive alternatives. We believe that our tradition of reliable service, our name recognition and large customer base built on solid customer relationships, position us well to participate in this significant aspect of the distribution business. We continue to explore ways and means to improve and expand our Internet presence and capabilities, including our online commerce offerings and our use of various social media outlets.



Results of Operations

The following tables summarize the significant components of our operating results and cash flows from continuing operations for each of the three years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 (in thousands):

Years Ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Operating results:

Net sales

$

9,985,803

$

9,417,603

$

8,883,438

Cost of sales

6,894,917

6,506,856

6,136,776

Gross profit

3,090,886

2,910,747

2,746,662

Operating expenses:

Selling, general and administrative

2,357,920

2,217,273

2,071,576

Litigation settlements

-

38,488

5,325

Restructuring costs

14,705

54,367

-

Operating income

$

718,261

$

600,619

$

669,761

Other expense, net

$

(37,954)

$

(63,783)

$

(39,967)

Net gain (loss) on sale of equity investments

186,769

-

(17,636)

Net income from continuing operations

725,461

450,441

318,476

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

(6,323)

111,685

140,817

Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.

694,734

535,881

406,299

Years Ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Cash flows:

Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations

$

820,478

$

450,955

$

375,035

Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations

(422,309)

(164,324)

(212,741)

Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations

(363,351)

(402,173)

(73,944)

Plans of Restructuring

On July 9, 2018, we committed to an initiative to rationalize our operations and provide expense efficiencies. These actions allowed us to execute on our plan to reduce our cost structure and fund new initiatives that are expected to drive future growth under our 2018 to 2020 strategic plan. This initiative resulted in the elimination of approximately 4% of our workforce and the closing of certain facilities.

The total 2019 and 2018 costs associated with the actions to complete this restructuring were $14.7 million and $54.4 million, respectively, from continuing operations, consisting primarily of severance costs. The costs associated with this restructuring are included in a separate line item, “Restructuring costs” within our consolidated statements of income.

On November 20, 2019, we committed to the contemplated initiative, intended to mitigate stranded costs associated with the Animal Health Spin-off as well as to rationalize operations and provide expense efficiencies. These activities are expected to be completed by the end of 2020. We are currently unable in good faith to make a determination of an estimate of the amount or range of amounts expected to be incurred in connection with these activities, both with respect to each major type of cost associated therewith and with respect to the total cost, or an estimate of the amount or range of amounts that will result in future cash expenditures. We will disclose this information after we determine such estimates or range of estimates.



2019 Compared to 2018

Net Sales

Net sales for 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands):

% of

% of

Increase


Total


Total

$

%

Health care distribution

(1):

Dental

$

6,415,865

64.2

%

$

6,347,998

67.4

%

$

67,867

1.1

%

Medical

2,973,586

29.8

2,661,166

28.3

312,420

11.7

Total health care distribution

9,389,451

94.0

9,009,164

95.7

380,287

4.2

Technology and value-added services

(2)

515,085

5.2

408,439

4.3

106,646

26.1

Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues

9,904,536

99.2

9,417,603

100.0

486,933

5.2

Corporate TSA revenues

(3)

81,267

0.8

-

-

81,267

-

Total

$

9,985,803

100.0

%

$

9,417,603

100.0

%

$

568,200

6.0

(1)

Consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins.

(2)

Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services.

(3)

Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement entered into in connection with the Animal Health Spin-off, which we expect to continue through August 2020.

The 6.0% increase in net sales for the year ended December 28, 2019 includes an increase of 7.7% local currency growth (4.4% increase in internally generated revenue and 3.3% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 1.7% related to foreign currency exchange. Excluding sales of products under the transition services agreement with Covetrus, our net sales increased 5.2%, including local currency growth of 6.9% (3.5% increase in internally generated revenue and 3.4% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 1.7% related to foreign currency exchange.

The 1.1% increase in dental net sales for the year ended December 28, 2019 includes an increase of 3.4% in local currencies (2.0% increase in internally generated revenue and 1.4% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 2.3% related to foreign currency exchange. The 3.4% increase in local currency sales was due to increases in dental equipment sales and service revenues of 1.0%, all of which is attributable to an increase in internally generated revenue and dental consumable merchandise sales growth of 4.2% (2.3% increase in internally generated revenue and 1.9% growth from acquisitions).

The 11.7% increase in medical net sales for the year ended December 28, 2019 includes an increase of 11.9% local currency growth (7.0% increase in internally generated revenue and 4.9% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 0.2% related to foreign currency exchange.

The 26.1% increase in technology and value-added services net sales for the year ended December 28, 2019 includes an increase of 27.0% local currency growth (4.3% increase in internally generated revenue and 22.7% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 0.9% related to foreign currency exchange.



Gross Profit

Gross profit and gross margins for 2019 and 2018 by segment and in total were as follows (in thousands):

Gross

Gross

Increase


Margin %


Margin %

$

%

Health care distribution

$

2,717,574

28.9

%

$

2,628,767

29.2

%

$

88,807

3.4

%

Technology and value-added services

370,887

72.0

281,980

69.0

88,907

31.5

Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues

3,088,461

31.2

2,910,747

30.9

177,714

6.1

Corporate TSA revenues

2,425

3.0

-

-

2,425

-

Total

$

3,090,886

31.0

$

2,910,747

30.9

$

180,139

6.2

As a result of different practices of categorizing costs associated with distribution networks throughout our industry, our gross margins may not necessarily be comparable to other distribution companies. Additionally, we realize substantially higher gross margin percentages in our technology segment than in our health care distribution segment. These higher gross margins result from being both the developer and seller of software products and services, as well as certain financial services. The software industry typically realizes higher gross margins to recover investments in research and development.

In connection with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off (see Note 2 for additional details), we entered into a transition services agreement with Covetrus, pursuant to which Covetrus purchases certain products from us. The agreement provides that these products will be sold to Covetrus at a mark-up that ranges from 3% to 6% of our product cost to cover handling costs. We expect these sales to continue through August 2020.

Within our health care distribution segment, gross profit margins may vary from one period to the next. Changes in the mix of products sold as well as changes in our customer mix have been the most significant drivers affecting our gross profit margin. For example, sales of pharmaceutical products are generally at lower gross profit margins than other products. Conversely, sales of our private label products achieve gross profit margins that are higher than average. With respect to customer mix, sales to our large-group customers are typically completed at lower gross margins due to the higher volumes sold as opposed to the gross margin on sales to office-based practitioners, who normally purchase lower volumes at greater frequencies.

Health care distribution gross profit increased $88.8 million, or 3.4%, for the year ended December 28, 2019 compared to the prior year period. Health care distribution gross profit margin decreased to 28.9% for the year ended December 28, 2019 from 29.2% for the comparable prior year period. The overall increase in our health care distribution gross profit is attributable to $73.1 million additional gross profit from acquisitions and $30.9 million gross profit increase from growth in internally generated revenue. These increases were partially offset by a $15.2 million decline in gross profit due to the decrease in the gross margin rates.

Technology and value-added services gross profit increased $88.9 million, or 31.5%, for the year ended December 28, 2019 compared to the prior year period. Technology and value-added services gross profit margin increased to 72.0% for the year ended December 28, 2019 from 69.0% for the comparable prior year period. Acquisitions accounted for $80.2 million of our gross profit increase within our technology and value-added services segment for the year ended December 28, 2019 compared to the prior year period and also accounted for the increase in the gross profit margin. The remaining increase of $8.7 million in our technology and value-added services segment gross profit was primarily attributable to growth in internally generated revenue.



Selling, General and Administrative

Selling, general and administrative expenses by segment and in total for 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands):

% of

% of

Respective

Respective

Increase / (Decrease)


Net Sales


Net Sales

$

%

Health care distribution

$

2,128,595

22.7

%

$

2,137,779

23.7

%

$

(9,184)

(0.4)

%

Technology and value-added services

244,030

47.4

172,349

42.2

71,681

41.6

Total

$

2,372,625

23.8

$

2,310,128

24.5

$

62,497

2.7

Selling, general and administrative expenses (including restructuring costs in the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, and litigation settlements in the year ended December 29, 2018) increased $62.5 million, or 2.7%, to $2,372.6 million for the year ended December 28, 2019 from the comparable prior year period. The $9.2 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses within our health care distribution segment for the year ended December 28, 2019 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to a reduction of $73.7 million of operating costs (primarily due to $38.5 million of litigation settlement costs recorded in 2018 and a $39.7 million decrease in restructuring costs) partially offset by $64.5 million of additional costs from acquired companies. The $71.7 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses within our technology and value-added services segment for the year ended December 28, 2019 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to $70.5 million of additional costs from acquired companies and $1.2 million of additional operating costs. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 23.8% from 24.5% for the comparable prior year period.

As a component of total selling, general and administrative expenses, selling expenses increased $69.2 million, or 4.8%, to $1,497.3 million for the year ended December 28, 2019 from the comparable prior year period. As a percentage of net sales, selling expenses decreased to 15.0% from 15.2% for the comparable prior year period.

As a component of total selling, general and administrative expenses, general and administrative expenses decreased $6.8 million, or 0.8%, to $875.3 million for the year ended December 28, 2019 from the comparable prior year period primarily due to $38.5 million of litigation settlement costs recorded in 2018 and a $39.7 million decrease in restructuring costs partially offset by increases in general and administrative expenses. As a percentage of net sales, general and administrative expenses decreased to 8.8% from 9.4% for the comparable prior year period.

Other Expense, Net

Other expense, net for the years ended 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in thousands):

Variance



$

%

Interest income

$

15,757

$

15,491

$


1.7

%

Interest expense

(50,792)

(76,016)

25,224

33.2

Other, net

(2,919)

(3,258)


10.4

Other expense, net

$

(37,954)

$

(63,783)

$

25,829

40.5

Interest expense decreased $25.2 million primarily due to decreased borrowings under our bank credit lines.



Income Taxes

For the year ended December 28, 2019, our effective tax rate was 23.4% compared to 20.0% for the prior year period. In 2019, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. In 2018, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by a reduction in the estimate of our transition tax associated with the Tax Act, tax charges and credits associated with legal entity reorganizations outside the U.S., and state and foreign income taxes and interest expense.

Within our consolidated balance sheets, transition tax of $9.9 million was included in “Accrued taxes” for 2019 and 2018, and $94.9 million and $104.2 million were included in “Other liabilities” for 2019 and 2018 respectively.

Net Gain on Sale of Equity Investments

On October 1, 2019, we sold an equity investment in Hu-Friedy Mfg. Co., LLC, a manufacturer of dental instruments and infection prevention solutions. Our investment was non-controlling, we were not involved in running the business and had no representation on the board of directors.

During the fourth quarter of 2019, we also sold certain other investments. In aggregate, the sales of these investments resulted in a pretax gain of approximately $250.2 million and an after-tax gain of approximately $186.8 million.



2018 Compared to 2017

Net Sales

Net sales for 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands):

% of

% of

Increase


Total


Total

$

%

Health care distribution

(1):

Dental

$

6,347,998

67.4

%

$

6,047,811

68.1

%

$

300,187

5.0

%

Medical

2,661,166

28.3

2,497,994

28.1

163,172

6.5

Total health care distribution

9,009,164

95.7

8,545,805

96.2

463,359

5.4

Technology and value-added services

(2)

408,439

4.3

337,633

3.8

70,806

21.0

Total

$

9,417,603

100.0

%

$

8,883,438

100.0

%

$

534,165

6.0

(1)

Consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins.

(2)

Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services.

The 6.0% increase in net sales for the year ended December 29, 2018 includes an increase of 5.5% local currency growth (4.0% increase in internally generated revenue and 1.5% growth from acquisitions) as well as an increase of 0.5% related to foreign currency exchange.

The 5.0% increase in dental net sales for the year ended December 29, 2018 includes an increase of 4.2% in local currencies (3.0% increase in internally generated revenue and 1.2% growth from acquisitions) as well as an increase of 0.8% related to foreign currency exchange. The 4.2% increase in local currency sales was due to increases in dental equipment sales and service revenues of 4.5% (4.4% increase in internally generated revenue and 0.1% growth from acquisitions) and dental consumable merchandise sales growth of 4.1% (2.6% increase in internally generated revenue and 1.5% growth from acquisitions).

The 6.5% increase in medical net sales for the year ended December 29, 2018 includes an increase of 6.4% local currency growth (6.3% increase in internally generated revenue and 0.1% growth from acquisitions) as well as an increase of 0.1% related to foreign currency exchange.

The 21.0% increase in technology and value-added services net sales for the year ended December 29, 2018 includes an increase of 20.4% local currency growth (5.4% increase in internally generated revenue and 15.0% growth from acquisitions) as well as an increase of 0.6% related to foreign currency exchange.



Gross Profit

Gross profit and gross margins for 2018 and 2017 by segment and in total were as follows (in thousands):

Gross

Gross

Increase


Margin %


Margin %

$

%

Health care distribution

$

2,628,767

29.2

%

$

2,520,806

29.5

%

$

107,961

4.3

%

Technology and value-added services

281,980

69.0

225,856

66.9

56,124

24.8

Total

$

2,910,747

30.9

$

2,746,662

30.9

$

164,085

6.0

As a result of different practices of categorizing costs associated with distribution networks throughout our industry, our gross margins may not necessarily be comparable to other distribution companies. Additionally, we realize substantially higher gross margin percentages in our technology segment than in our health care distribution segment. These higher gross margins result from being both the developer and seller of software products and services, as well as certain financial services. The software industry typically realizes higher gross margins to recover investments in research and development.

Within our health care distribution segment, gross profit margins may vary from one period to the next. Changes in the mix of products sold as well as changes in our customer mix have been the most significant drivers affecting our gross profit margin. For example, sales of pharmaceutical products are generally at lower gross profit margins than other products. Conversely, sales of our private label products achieve gross profit margins that are higher than average. With respect to customer mix, sales to our large-group customers are typically completed at lower gross margins due to the higher volumes sold as opposed to the gross margin on sales to office-based practitioners who normally purchase lower volumes at greater frequencies.

Health care distribution gross profit increased $108.0 million, or 4.3%, for the year ended December 29, 2018 compared to the prior year period. Health care distribution gross profit margin decreased to 29.2% for the year ended December 29, 2018 from 29.5% for the comparable prior year period. The overall increase in our health care distribution gross profit is attributable to a $108.2 million gross profit increase from growth in internally generated revenue and $31.7 million is attributable to acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by a $31.9 million decline in gross profit due to the decrease in the gross margin rates.

Technology and value-added services gross profit increased $56.1 million, or 24.8%, for the year ended December 29, 2018 compared to the prior year period. Technology and value-added services gross profit margin increased to 69.0% for the year ended December 29, 2018 from 66.9% for the comparable prior year period. Acquisitions accounted for $44.0 million of our gross profit increase within our technology and value-added services segment for the year ended December 29, 2018 compared to the prior year period. The remaining increase of $12.1 million in our technology and value-added services segment gross profit was primarily attributable to growth in internally generated revenue and the increase in gross margin rates.



Selling, General and Administrative

Selling, general and administrative expenses by segment and in total for 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands):

% of

% of

Respective

Respective

Increase


Net Sales


Net Sales

$

%

Health care distribution

$

2,137,779

23.7

%

$

1,958,918

22.9

%

$

178,861

9.1

%

Technology and value-added services

172,349

42.2

117,983

34.9

54,366

46.1

Total

$

2,310,128

24.5

$

2,076,901

23.4

$

233,227

11.2

Selling, general and administrative expenses (including restructuring costs in 2018 and litigation settlements in 2018 and 2017) increased $233.2 million, or 11.2%, for the year ended December 29, 2018 from the comparable prior year period. The $178.9 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses within our health care distribution segment for the year ended December 29, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to $152.1 million of additional operating costs (including an increase of $33.2 million for litigation settlements and $50.8 million of restructuring costs) and $26.8 million of additional costs from acquired companies. The $54.4 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses within our technology and value-added services segment for the year ended December 29, 2018 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to $43.7 million of additional costs from acquired companies and $10.7 million of additional operating costs (including $3.6 million of restructuring costs). As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 24.5% from 23.4% for the comparable prior year period.

As a component of total selling, general and administrative expenses, selling expenses increased $74.4 million, or 5.5%, for the year ended December 29, 2018 from the comparable prior year period. As a percentage of net sales, selling expenses remained consistent at 15.2%.

As a component of total selling, general and administrative expenses, general and administrative expenses increased $158.8 million, or 22.0%, for the year ended December 29, 2018 from the comparable prior year period primarily due to restructuring costs of $54.4 million and an increase of $33.2 million of litigation settlements costs. As a percentage of net sales, general and administrative expenses increased to 9.4% from 8.1% for the comparable prior year period.

Other Expense, Net

Other expense, net for the years ended 2018 and 2017 was as follows (in thousands):

Variance



$

%

Interest income

$

15,491

$

12,438

$

3,053

24.5

%

Interest expense

(76,016)

(51,066)

(24,950)

(48.9)

Other, net

(3,258)

(1,339)

(1,919)

(143.3)

Other expense, net

$

(63,783)

$

(39,967)

$

(23,816)

(59.6)

Other expense, net increased $23.8 million to $63.8 million for the year ended December 29, 2018 from the comparable prior year period. Interest income increased $3.1 million primarily due to increased investment and late fee income. Interest expense increased $25.0 million primarily due to increased borrowings under our bank credit lines and our private placement facilities primarily to fund acquisitions of noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries, as well as higher interest rates.



Income Taxes

For the year ended December 29, 2018, our effective tax rate was 20.0% compared to 49.1% for the prior year period. In 2018, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by a reduction in the estimate of our transition tax associated with the Tax Act, tax charges and credits associated with legal entity reorganizations outside the U.S., and state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. In 2017, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by the Tax Act, the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-09, “Stock Compensation” (Topic 718), as well as state and foreign income taxes and interest expense.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government passed the Tax Act. The Tax Act is comprehensive tax legislation that implemented complex changes to the U.S. tax code including, but not limited to, the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, modification of accelerated depreciation, the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction and changes to the limitations of the deductibility of interest. Additionally, the Tax Act moved from a global tax regime to a modified territorial regime, which requires U.S. companies to pay a mandatory one-time transition tax on historical offshore earnings that have not been repatriated to the U.S. The transition tax is payable over eight years. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded provisional amounts for any items that could be reasonably estimated at the time. This included the one-time transition tax that we estimated to be $140.0 million and a net deferred tax expense of $3.0 million attributable to the revaluation of deferred taxes due to the lower enacted federal income tax rate of 21%. We completed our analysis in the year ended December 29, 2018 and recorded a net $10.0 million reduction to the one-time transition tax and an additional $1.7 million net deferred tax benefit from the revaluation of deferred taxes to reflect the new tax rate. Absent the effects of the transition tax and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, our effective tax rate for the year ended December 30, 2017 would have been 26.4% as compared to our actual effective tax rate of 49.1%.

Within our consolidated balance sheets, transition tax of $9.9 million was included in “Accrued taxes” and $104.2 million were included in “Other liabilities” for December 29, 2018.

The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740 No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”), states that an entity can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred. We elected to recognize the tax on GILTI as a period expense in the period the tax is incurred. We recorded a current tax expense for the GILTI provision of $7.6 million for the year ended December 29, 2018.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our principal capital requirements include funding of acquisitions, purchases of additional noncontrolling interests, repayments of debt principal, the funding of working capital needs, purchases of fixed assets and repurchases of common stock. Working capital requirements generally result from increased sales, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and payment terms for receivables and payables. Historically, sales have tended to be stronger during the third and fourth quarters and special inventory forward buy-in opportunities have been most prevalent just before the end of the year, and have caused our working capital requirements to be higher from the end of the third quarter to the end of the first quarter of the following year.

We finance our business primarily through cash generated from our operations, revolving credit facilities and debt placements. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations is dependent on the continued demand of our customers for our products and services, and access to products and services from our suppliers.

Our business requires a substantial investment in working capital, which is susceptible to fluctuations during the year as a result of inventory purchase patterns and seasonal demands. Inventory purchase activity is a function of sales activity, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and our desired level of inventory. We anticipate future increases in our working capital requirements.



We finance our business to provide adequate funding for at least 12 months. Funding requirements are based on forecasted profitability and working capital needs, which, on occasion, may change. Consequently, we may change our funding structure to reflect any new requirements.

We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, our ability to access private debt markets and public equity markets, and our available funds under existing credit facilities provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our currently foreseeable short-term and long-term capital needs. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.

On February 7, 2019, we completed the Animal Health Spin-off. On the Distribution Date we received a tax free distribution of $1,120 million from Covetrus, which has been used to pay down our debt, thereby generating additional debt capacity that can be used for general corporate purposes, including share repurchases and mergers and acquisitions.

Net cash provided by operating activities was $820.5 million for the year ended December 28, 2019, compared to $451.0 million for the prior year. The net change of $369.5 million was primarily attributable to an increase in net income, decreases in working capital requirements, and increased distributions from equity affiliates.

Net cash used in investing activities was $422.3 million for the year ended December 28, 2019, compared to $164.3 million for the prior year. The net change of $258.0 million was primarily due to increased payments for equity investments and business acquisitions, partially offset by increased proceeds of sales of equity investments.

Net cash used in financing activities was $363.4 million for the year ended December 28, 2019, compared to $402.2 million for the prior year. The net change of $38.8 million was primarily

due to a distribution received related to the Animal Health Spin-off, proceeds from the Animal Health Share Sale, a reduction in acquisitions of noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries, and payments to the Henry Schein Animal Health Business, partially offset by increased repayments of debt related to the Animal Health Spin-off and increased repurchases of our common stock.



The following table summarizes selected measures of liquidity and capital resources (in thousands):

December 28,

December 29,



Cash and cash equivalents

$

106,097

$

56,885

Working capital

(1)

1,188,133

956,393

Debt:

Bank credit lines

$

23,975

$

951,458

Current maturities of long-term debt

109,849

8,280

Long-term debt

622,908

980,344

Total debt

$

756,732

$

1,940,082

Leases:

Current operating lease liabilities

$

65,349

$

-

Non-current operating lease liabilities

176,267

-

(1)

Includes $127 million and $422 million of accounts receivable which serve as security for U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization at December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, respectively.

Our cash and cash equivalents consist of bank balances and investments in money market funds representing overnight investments with a high degree of liquidity.

Accounts receivable days sales outstanding and inventory turns

Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding from operations increased to 44.5 days as of December 28, 2019 from 43.8 days as of December 29, 2018. During the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, we wrote off approximately $5.9 million and $6.4 million, respectively, of fully reserved accounts receivable against our trade receivable reserve. Our inventory turns from operations were 5.0 as of December 28, 2019 and 4.5 as of December 29, 2018. Our working capital accounts may be impacted by current and future economic conditions.

Contractual obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations related to fixed and variable rate long-term debt and finance lease obligations, including interest (assuming a weighted average interest rate of 3.3%), as well as inventory purchase commitments and operating lease obligations as of December 28, 2019:

Payments due by period (in thousands)

< 1 year

2 - 3 years

4 - 5 years

> 5 years

Total

Contractual obligations:

Long-term debt, including interest

$

132,073

$

250,166

$

130,084

$

337,615

$

849,938

Inventory purchase commitments

403,241

319,000

-

-

722,241

Operating lease obligations

70,986

97,158

45,965

51,762

265,871

Transition tax obligations

9,923

28,527

55,815

-

94,265

Finance lease obligations, including interest

1,853

2,175


1,117

5,732

Total

$

618,076

$

697,026

$

232,451

$

390,494

$

1,938,047



Bank Credit Lines

Bank credit lines consisted of the following:

December 28,

December 29,



Revolving credit agreement

$

-

$

175,000

Other short-term bank credit lines

23,975

376,458

Committed loan associated with Animal Health Spin-off

-

400,000

Total

$

23,975

$

951,458

Revolving Credit Agreement

On April 18, 2017, we entered into a $750 million revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), which matures in April 2022. The interest rate is based on the USD LIBOR plus a spread based on our leverage ratio at the end of each financial reporting quarter. We expect that the LIBOR rate will be discontinued at some point during 2021. We expect to work with our lenders to identify a suitable replacement rate and amend our debt agreements to reflect this new reference rate accordingly. We do not believe that the discontinuation of LIBOR as a reference rate in our debt agreements will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or materially affect our interest expense. Additionally, the Credit Agreement provides, among other things, that we are required to maintain maximum leverage ratios, and contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants. The Credit Agreement also contains customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions on liens, indebtedness, significant corporate changes (including mergers), dispositions and certain restrictive agreements. As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, the borrowings on this revolving credit facility were $0.0 million and $175.0 million, respectively. As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, there were $9.6 million and $11.2 million of letters of credit, respectively, provided to third parties under the credit facility.

Other Short-Term Credit Lines

As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, we had various other short-term bank credit lines available, of which $24.0 million and $376.5 million, respectively, were outstanding. At December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, borrowings under all of our credit lines had a weighted average interest rate of 3.45% and 3.30%, respectively.

Committed Loan Associated with Animal Health Spin-off

On May 21, 2018, we obtained a $400 million committed loan which matured on the earlier of (i) March 31, 2019 and (ii) the consummation of the Animal Health Spin-off. The proceeds of this loan were used, among other things, to fund our purchase of all of the equity interests in Butler Animal Health Holding Company, LLC (“BAHHC”) directly or indirectly owned by Darby Group Companies, Inc. (“Darby”) and certain other sellers pursuant to the terms of that certain Amendment to Put Rights Agreements, dated as of April 20, 2018, by and among us, Darby, BAHHC and the individual sellers party thereto for an aggregate purchase price of $365 million. As of December 29, 2018, the balance outstanding on this loan was $400 million and is included within the “Bank credit lines” caption within our consolidated balance sheet. At December 29, 2018 the interest rate on this loan was 3.38%. Concurrent with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off on February 7, 2019, we re-paid the balance of this loan.



Long-term debt

Long-term debt consisted of the following:

December 28,

December 29,



Private placement facilities

$

621,274

$

628,189

U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization

100,000

350,000

Various collateralized and uncollateralized loans payable with interest,

in varying installments through 2024 at interest rates

ranging from 2.56% to 10.5% at December 28, 2019 and

ranging from 2.61% to 4.17% at December 29, 2018

6,089

6,491

Finance lease obligations (see Note 7)

5,394

3,944

Total

732,757

988,624

Less current maturities

(109,849)

(8,280)

Total long-term debt

$

622,908

$

980,344

Private Placement Facilities

On September 15, 2017, we increased our available private placement facilities with three insurance companies to a total facility amount of $1 billion, and extended the expiration date to September 15, 2020. These facilities are available on an uncommitted basis at fixed rate economic terms to be agreed upon at the time of issuance, from time to time through September 15, 2020. The facilities allow us to issue senior promissory notes to the lenders at a fixed rate based on an agreed upon spread over applicable treasury notes at the time of issuance. The term of each possible issuance will be selected by us and can range from five to 15 years (with an average life no longer than 12 years). The proceeds of any issuances under the facilities will be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditures, to refinance existing indebtedness and/or to fund potential acquisitions. On June 29, 2018, we amended and restated the above private placement facilities to, among other things, (i) permit the consummation of the Animal Health Spin-off and (ii) provide for the issuance of notes in Euros, British Pounds and Australian Dollars, in addition to U.S. Dollars. The agreements provide, among other things, that we maintain certain maximum leverage ratios, and contain restrictions relating to subsidiary indebtedness, liens, affiliate transactions, disposal of assets and certain changes in ownership. These facilities contain make-whole provisions in the event that we pay off the facilities prior to the applicable due dates.



The components of our private placement facility borrowings as of December 28, 2019 are presented in the following table (in thousands):

Amount of

Date of

Borrowing

Borrowing

Borrowing

Outstanding

Rate

Due Date

September 2, 2010

$

100,000

3.79

%

September 2, 2020

January 20, 2012

50,000

3.45

January 20, 2024

January 20, 2012 (1)

21,429

3.09

January 20, 2022

December 24, 2012

50,000

3.00

December 24, 2024

June 2, 2014

100,000

3.19

June 2, 2021

June 16, 2017

100,000

3.42

June 16, 2027

September 15, 2017

100,000

3.52

September 15, 2029

January 2, 2018

100,000

3.32

January 2, 2028

Less: Deferred debt issuance costs

(155)

$

621,274

(1) Annual repayments of approximately $7.1 million for this borrowing commenced on January 20, 2016.

U.S. Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization

We have a facility agreement with a bank, as agent, based on the securitization of our U.S. trade accounts receivable that is structured as an asset-backed securitization program with pricing committed for up to three years. Our current facility, which has a purchase limit of $350 million, and was previously scheduled to expire on April 29, 2020, has been extended to April 29, 2022. As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, the borrowings outstanding under this securitization facility were $100 million and $350 million, respectively. At December 28, 2019, the interest rate on borrowings under this facility was based on the asset-backed commercial paper rate of 1.90% plus 0.75%, for a combined rate of 2.65%. At December 29, 2018, the interest rate on borrowings under this facility was based on the asset-backed commercial paper rate of 2.66% plus 0.75%, for a combined rate of 3.41%.

We are required to pay a commitment fee of 30 basis points on the daily balance of the unused portion of the facility if our usage is greater than or equal to 50% of the facility limit or a commitment fee of 35 basis points on the daily balance of the unused portion of the facility if our usage is less than 50% of the facility limit.

Borrowings under this facility are presented as a component of Long-term debt within our consolidated balance sheet.

Leases

We have operating and finance leases for corporate offices, office space, distribution and other facilities, vehicles and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining terms of less than one year to 16 years, some of which may include options to extend the leases for up to 10 years. As of December 28, 2019, our right-of-use assets related to operating leases were $231.7 million and our current and non-current operating lease liabilities were $65.3 million and $176.3 million, respectively.

Stock repurchases

From March 3, 2003 through December 28, 2019, we repurchased approximately $3.5 billion, or 74,363,289 shares, under our common stock repurchase programs, with $275.0 million available as of December 28, 2019 for future common stock share repurchases.



Redeemable Noncontrolling interests

Some minority stockholders in certain of our subsidiaries have the right, at certain times, to require us to acquire their ownership interest in those entities at fair value. ASC 480-10 is applicable for noncontrolling interests where we are or may be required to purchase all or a portion of the outstanding interest in a consolidated subsidiary from the noncontrolling interest holder under the terms of a put option contained in contractual agreements. The components of the change in the Redeemable noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 are presented in the following table:

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Balance, beginning of period

$

219,724

$

465,585

$

285,567

Decrease in redeemable noncontrolling interests due to

redemptions

(2,270)

(287,767)

(22,294)

Increase in redeemable noncontrolling interests due to

business acquisitions

74,865

4,655

72,291

Net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests

14,838

15,327

24,513

Dividends declared

(10,264)

(8,206)

(7,680)

Effect of foreign currency translation gain (loss) attributable to

redeemable noncontrolling interests

(2,335)

(11,330)

4,530

Change in fair value of redeemable securities

(7,300)

41,460

108,658

Balance, end of period

$

287,258

$

219,724

$

465,585

Changes in the estimated redemption amounts of the noncontrolling interests subject to put options are adjusted at each reporting period with a corresponding adjustment to Additional paid-in capital. Future reductions in the carrying amounts are subject to a floor amount that is equal to the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests at the time they were originally recorded. The recorded value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests cannot go below the floor level. These adjustments do not impact the calculation of earnings per share.

Additionally, some prior owners of such acquired subsidiaries are eligible to receive additional purchase price cash consideration if certain financial targets are met. Any adjustments to these accrual amounts are recorded in our consolidated statement of income.

On July 1, 2018, we closed on a joint venture with Internet Brands, a provider of web presence and online marketing software, to create a newly formed entity, Henry Schein One, LLC. The joint venture includes Henry Schein Practice Solutions products and services, as well as Henry Schein’s international dental practice management systems and the dental businesses of Internet Brands. Internet Brands holds a 26% noncontrolling interest in Henry Schein One, LLC that is accounted for within stockholders’ equity, as well as a freestanding and separately exercisable right to put its noncontrolling interest to Henry Schein, Inc. for fair value following the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the formation of the joint venture. Beginning with the second anniversary of the effective date of the formation of the joint venture, Henry Schein One will issue a fixed number of additional interests to Internet Brands through the fifth anniversary, thereby increasing Internet Brands’ ownership by approximately 7.6%. Internet Brands will also be entitled to receive a fixed number of additional interests, in the aggregate up to approximately 1.6% of the joint venture’s ownership, if certain operating targets are met by the joint venture in its fourth, fifth and sixth operating years. These additional shares are considered contingent consideration that are accounted for within stockholders’ equity; however, these shares will not be allocated any net income of Henry Schein One until the shares vest or are earned by Internet Brands. A Monte Carlo simulation was utilized to value the additional contingent interests that are subject to operating targets. Key assumptions that were applied to derive the fair value of the contingent interests include an assumed equity value of Henry Schein One, LLC at its inception date, a risk-free interest rate based on U.S. treasury yields, an assumed future dividend yield, a risk-adjusted discount rate applied to projected future cash flows, an assumed equity volatility based on historical stock price returns of a group of guideline companies, and an estimated correlation of annual cash flow returns to equity returns. As a result of this transaction with Internet Brands, we recorded $567.6 million of noncontrolling interest within stockholders’ equity.



Noncontrolling Interests

Noncontrolling interests represent our less than 50% ownership interest in an acquired subsidiary. Our net income is reduced by the portion of the subsidiaries net income that is attributable to noncontrolling interests.

Unrecognized tax benefits

As more fully disclosed in Note 14 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to the unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, of $109.1 million as of December 28, 2019.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical data, when available, experience, industry and market trends, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the combined results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. However, by their nature, estimates are subject to various assumptions and uncertainties. Reported results are therefore sensitive to any changes in our assumptions, judgments and estimates, including the possibility of obtaining materially different results if different assumptions were to be applied.

We believe that the following critical accounting policies, which have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, affect the significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements:

Revenue Recognition

On December 31, 2017, we adopted ASC 606 (“Topic 606”) using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of the adoption date. Results for reporting periods beginning after December 30, 2017 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. Our revenue recognition accounting policies applied prior to adoption of Topic 606 are outlined in the financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017. The disclosures included herein reflect our accounting policies under Topic 606.

We generate revenue from the sale of dental and medical consumable products, equipment (Health care distribution revenues), software products and services and other sources (Technology and value-added services revenues). Provisions for discounts, rebates to customers, customer returns and other contra revenue adjustments are included in the transaction price at contract inception by estimating the most likely amount based upon historical data and estimates and are provided for in the period in which the related sales are recognized.

Revenue derived from the sale of consumable products is recognized at a point in time when control transfers to the customer. Such sales typically entail high-volume, low-dollar orders shipped using third-party common carriers. We believe that the shipment date is the most appropriate point in time indicating control has transferred to the customer because we have no post-shipment obligations and this is when legal title and risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the customer and the point at which we have an enforceable right to payment.

Revenue derived from the sale of equipment is recognized when control transfers to the customer. This occurs when the equipment is delivered. Such sales typically entail scheduled deliveries of large equipment primarily by equipment service technicians. Some equipment sales require minimal installation, which is typically completed at the time of delivery. Our product generally carries standard warranty terms provided by the manufacturer, however, in instances where we provide warranty labor services, the warranty costs are accrued in accordance with ASC 460 “Guarantees”.



Revenue derived from the sale of software products is recognized when products are shipped to customers or made available electronically. Such software is generally installed by customers and does not require extensive training due to the nature of its design. Revenue derived from post-contract customer support for software, including annual support and/or training, is generally recognized over time using time elapsed as the input method that best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.

Revenue derived from other sources, including freight charges, equipment repairs and financial services, is recognized when the related product revenue is recognized or when the services are provided. We apply the practical expedient to treat shipping and handling activities performed after the customer obtains control as fulfillment activities, rather than a separate performance obligation in the contract.

Sales, value-add and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue.

Certain of our revenue is derived from bundled arrangements that include multiple distinct performance obligations which are accounted for separately. When we sell software products together with related services (i.e., training and technical support), we allocate revenue to software using the residual method, using an estimate of the standalone selling price to estimate the fair value of the undelivered elements. There are no cases where revenue is deferred due to a lack of a standalone selling price. Bundled arrangements that include elements that are not considered software consist primarily of equipment and the related installation service. We allocate revenue for such arrangements based on the relative selling prices of the goods or services. If an observable selling price is not available (i.e., we do not sell the goods or services separately), we use one of the following techniques to estimate

the standalone selling price: adjusted market approach; cost-plus approach; or the residual method. There is no specific hierarchy for the use of these methods, but the estimated selling price reflects our best estimate of what the selling prices of each deliverable would be if it were sold regularly on a standalone basis taking into consideration the cost structure of our business, technical skill required, customer location and other market conditions.

Contract Balances

Contract balances represent amounts presented in our consolidated balance sheet when either we have transferred goods or services to the customer or the customer has paid consideration to us under the contract. These contract balances include accounts receivable, contract assets and contract liabilities.

Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable are generally recognized when heath care distribution and technology and value-added services revenues are recognized. The carrying amount of accounts receivable is reduced by a valuation allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amounts that will not be collected. In addition to reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, we consider many factors in estimating our reserve, including historical data, experience, customer types, credit worthiness and economic trends. From time to time, we adjust our assumptions for anticipated changes in any of these or other factors expected to affect collectability.

Contract Assets

Contract assets include amounts related to any conditional right to consideration for work completed but not billed as of the reporting date and generally represent amounts owed to us by customers, but not yet billed. Contract assets are transferred to accounts receivable when the right becomes unconditional. The contract assets primarily relate to our bundled arrangements for the sale of equipment and consumables and sales of term software licenses. Current contract assets are included in Prepaid expenses and other and the non-current contract assets are included in Investments and other within our consolidated balance sheet.



Contract Liabilities

Contract liabilities are comprised of advance payments and upfront payments for service arrangements provided over time that are accounted for as deferred revenue amounts. Contract liabilities are transferred to revenue once the performance obligation has been satisfied. Current contract liabilities are included in Accrued expenses: Other and the non-current contract liabilities are included in Other liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet.

Deferred Commissions

Sales commissions earned by our sales force that relate to long term arrangements are capitalized as costs to obtain a contract when the costs incurred are incremental and are expected to be recovered. Deferred sales commissions are amortized over the estimated customer relationship period. We apply the practical expedient related to the capitalization of incremental costs of obtaining a contract, and recognize such costs as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that we would have recognized is one year or less.

Sales Returns

Sales returns are recognized as a reduction of revenue by the amount of expected returns and are recorded as refund liability within current liabilities. We estimate the amount of revenue expected to be reversed to calculate the sales return liability based on historical data for specific products, adjusted as necessary for new products. The allowance for returns is presented gross as a refund liability and we record an inventory asset (and a corresponding adjustment to cost of sales) for any goods or services that we expect to be returned.

Inventories and Reserves

Inventories consist primarily of finished goods and are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out method for merchandise or actual cost for large equipment and high tech equipment. In accordance with our policy for inventory valuation, we consider many factors including the condition and salability of the inventory, historical sales, forecasted sales and market and economic trends.

From time to time, we may adjust our assumptions for anticipated changes in any of these or other factors expected to affect the value of inventory. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions related to inventory and reserves are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect our financial results.

Acquisitions

We account for business acquisitions and combinations under the acquisition method of accounting, where the net assets of businesses purchased are recorded at their fair value at the acquisition date and our consolidated financial statements include their results of operations from that date. Any excess of acquisition consideration over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The major classes of assets and liabilities that we generally allocate purchase price to, excluding goodwill, include identifiable intangible assets (i.e., trademarks and trade names, customer relationships and lists, non-compete agreements and product development), property, plant and equipment, deferred taxes and other current and long-term assets and liabilities. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on critical estimates, judgments and assumptions derived from: analysis of market conditions; discount rates; discounted cash flows; customer retention rates; and estimated useful lives. Some prior owners of such acquired subsidiaries are eligible to receive additional purchase price cash consideration if certain financial targets are met. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value those assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as contingent consideration, where applicable, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill within our consolidated balance sheets. At the end of the measurement period or final determination of the values of such assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recognized in our consolidated statements of operations.



Goodwill

Goodwill is not amortized, but are subject to impairment analysis at least once annually. Such impairment analyses for goodwill require a comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of reporting units. We regard our reporting units to be our operating segments: health care distribution (global dental and medical) and technology and value-added services. Goodwill was allocated to such reporting units, for the purposes of preparing our impairment analyses, based on a specific identification basis.

For the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, and December 30, 2017 we tested goodwill for impairment, on the first day of the fourth quarter of each respective year, using a quantitative analysis consisting of a two-step approach. The first step of our quantitative analysis consists of a comparison of the carrying value of our reporting units, including goodwill, to the estimated fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow methodology. If step one results in the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeding the fair value of such reporting unit, we would then proceed to step two which would require us to calculate the amount of impairment loss, if any, that we would record for such reporting unit. The calculation of the impairment loss in step two would be equivalent to the reporting unit’s carrying value of goodwill less the implied fair value of such goodwill.

Our use of a discounted cash flow methodology includes estimates of future revenue based upon budget projections and growth rates which take into account estimated inflation rates. We also develop estimates for future levels of gross and operating profits and projected capital expenditures. Our methodology also includes the use of estimated discount rates based upon industry and competitor analysis as well as other factors. The estimates that we use in our discounted cash flow methodology involve many assumptions by management that are based upon future growth projections.

Some factors we consider important that could trigger an interim impairment review include:

• significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;

• significant changes in the manner of our use of acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business (e.g., decision to divest a business); or

• significant negative industry or economic trends.

If we determine through the impairment review process that goodwill is impaired, we record an impairment charge in our consolidated statements of income.

For the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the results of our goodwill impairment analysis did not result in any impairments.

Supplier Rebates

Supplier rebates are included as a reduction of cost of sales and are recognized over the period they are earned. The factors we consider in estimating supplier rebate accruals include forecasted inventory purchases and sales in conjunction with supplier rebate contract terms which generally provide for increasing rebates based on either increased purchase or sales volume. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions related to supplier rebates are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect our financial results.

Long-Lived Assets

Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be derived from such assets.



Definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of non-compete agreements, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships and lists, and product development. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value. When an impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and our financial results.

Stock-Based Compensation

Stock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to employees and non-employee directors. We measure stock-based compensation at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and recognize the cost (net of estimated forfeitures) as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Our stock-based compensation expense is reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of income.

Stock-based awards are provided to certain employees and non-employee directors under the terms of our 2013 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, and our 2015 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan (together, the “Plans”). The Plans are administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Prior to March 2009, awards under the Plans principally included a combination of at-the-money stock options and restricted stock/units. Since March 2009, equity-based awards have been granted solely in the form of restricted stock/units, with the exception of providing stock options to employees pursuant to certain pre-existing contractual obligations.

Grants of restricted stock/units are stock-based awards granted to recipients with specified vesting provisions. In the case of restricted stock, common stock is delivered on the date of grant, subject to vesting conditions. In the case of restricted stock units, common stock is generally delivered on or following satisfaction of vesting conditions. We issue restricted stock/units that vest solely based on the recipient’s continued service over time (primarily four-year cliff vesting, except for grants made under the 2015 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan, which are primarily 12-month cliff vesting) and restricted stock/units that vest based on our achieving specified performance measurements and the recipient’s continued service over time (primarily three-year cliff vesting).

With respect to time-based restricted stock/units, we estimate the fair value on the date of grant based on our closing stock price. With respect to performance-based restricted stock/units, the number of shares that ultimately vest and are received by the recipient is based upon our performance as measured against specified targets over a specified period, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Although there is no guarantee that performance targets will be achieved, we estimate the fair value of performance-based restricted stock/units based on our closing stock price at time of grant.

The Plans provide for adjustments to the performance-based restricted stock/units targets for significant events, including, without limitation, acquisitions, divestitures, new business ventures, certain capital transactions (including share repurchases), restructuring costs, if any, changes in accounting principles or in applicable laws or regulations, foreign exchange fluctuations, certain litigation related costs, and material changes in income tax rates. Over the performance period, the number of shares of common stock that will ultimately vest and be issued and the related compensation expense is adjusted upward or downward based upon our estimation of achieving such performance targets. The ultimate number of shares delivered to recipients and the related compensation cost recognized as an expense will be based on our actual performance metrics as defined under the Plans.

Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions related to stock-based compensation are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect our financial results.



Unrecognized Tax Benefits

ASC Topic 740 prescribes the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with other provisions contained within this guidance. This topic prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate audit settlement. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities for uncertain tax positions taken in respect of certain tax matters.

Accounting Standards Update

For a discussion of accounting standards updates that have been adopted or will be adopted in the future, please refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8.



ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the U.S. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. We attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. These hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. Factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. All foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. We do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital.

Foreign Currency Agreements

The value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar and the value of certain underlying functional currencies of the Company, including its foreign subsidiaries, may affect our financial results. Fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in U.S. dollars. Where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. We purchase short-term (i.e., generally 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. We do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into U.S. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. A hypothetical 5% change in the average value of the U.S. dollar in 2019 compared to foreign currencies would have changed our 2019 reported Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc. by approximately $6.0 million.

As of December 28, 2019, we had forward foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through November 16, 2023, which include a mark-to-market loss of $3.9 million as determined by quoted market prices. Included in the forward foreign currency exchange agreements, Henry Schein, Inc. had EUR/USD forward contracts notionally totaling an amount of €200 million, with a reported fair value of these contracts as a net liability of $0.3 million. A 5% increase in the value of the Euro to the USD from December 28, 2019, with all other variables held constant, would have had an unfavorable effect on the fair value of these forward contracts by decreasing the value of these instruments by $12.0 million. As of December 28, 2019, Henry Schein, Inc. had Euro to Brazilian Real (BRL) cross currency swap contracts notionally totaling an amount of €83.6 million, with a reported fair value of these contracts as a net liability of $1.4 million. A 5% increase in the value of the Euro to the BRL from December 28, 2019, with all other variables held constant, would have had a favorable effect on the fair value of these swap contracts by increasing the value of these instruments by $4.6 million.

Short-Term Investments

We limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. As a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties.

Variable Interest Rate Debt

As of December 28, 2019, we had variable interest rate exposure for certain of our revolving credit facilities and our U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization.

Our revolving credit facility which we entered into on April 18, 2017 and expires on April 18, 2022, has an interest rate that is based on the U.S. Dollar LIBOR plus a spread based on our leverage ratio at the end of each financial reporting quarter. As of December 28, 2019, there was $0.0 million outstanding under this revolving credit



facility. During the year ended December 28, 2019, the average outstanding balance under this revolving credit facility was approximately $147.5 million. Based upon our average outstanding balance for this revolving credit facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.4 million.

Our U.S trade accounts receivable securitization, which we entered into on April 17, 2013 and which expires on April 29, 2022, has an interest rate that is based upon the asset-backed commercial paper rate. As of December 28, 2019, the commercial paper rate was 1.90% plus 0.75%, for a combined rate of 2.65%. At December 28, 2019 the outstanding balance was $100.0 million under this securitization facility. During the year ended December 28, 2019, the average outstanding balance under this securitization facility was approximately $274.8 million. Based upon our average outstanding balance for this securitization facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.7 million.



ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

Page

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Financial Statements

:

Balance Sheets as of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018


Statements of Income for the years ended December 28, 2019,

December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017


Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 28, 2019,

December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017


Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended

December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017


Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 28, 2019,

December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies


Note 2 – Discontinued Operations


Note 3 – Property and Equipment, Net


Note 4 – Goodwill and Other Intangibles, Net


Note 5 – Investments and Other


Note 6 – Debt


Note 7 – Leases


Note 8 – Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests


Note 9 – Comprehensive Income


Note 10 – Fair Value Measurements


Note 11 – Business Acquisitions Divestitures


Note 12 – Plans of Restructuring


Note 13 – Earnings Per Share


Note 14 – Income Taxes


Note 15 – Concentrations of Risk


Note 16 – Derivatives and Hedging Activities


Note 17 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers


Note 18 – Segment and Geographic Data


Note 19 – Employee Benefit Plans


Note 20 – Commitments and Contingencies


Note 21 – Quarterly Information (Unaudited)


Note 22 – Supplemental Cash Flow Information


Note 23 – Related Party Transactions


Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 28, 2019,

December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017


All other schedules are omitted because the required information is either inapplicable or is included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Stockholders and Board of Directors

Henry Schein, Inc.

Melville, NY

Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Henry Schein, Inc. (the “Company”) as of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2019, the related notes and schedule (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2019, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) and our report dated February 20, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Change in Accounting Principle

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective on December 30, 2019, the Company changed its method of accounting for leases due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 842,

Leases

.

Basis for Opinion

These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements; and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit



matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.

Business Combinations

As described in Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company acquired several companies in the current year. As a result of the acquisitions, management was required to determine estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including certain identifiable intangible assets. In some instances, management utilized third-party valuation specialists to assist in the preparation of the valuation of certain identifiable intangible assets.

We identified the determination of fair values of certain identifiable intangible assets, which primarily included customer relationships, as a critical audit matter. Management exercised significant judgment to develop and select assumptions in the measurement of the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets. Significant assumptions included discount rates, customer attrition, and projected revenue growth rates. These assumptions are forward-looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions. The principal considerations for our determination included the following: (i) changes in the significant assumptions could have a significant impact on the fair value of the assets acquired, (ii) significant unobservable inputs and assumptions utilized by management in determining the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets acquired, and (iii) appropriateness of use of various valuation models to determine the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets acquired. Auditing these elements involved especially subjective auditor judgment due to the nature and extent of audit effort required to address these matters, including the extent of specialized skill or knowledge needed.

The primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter included:

•

Assessing the design and testing operating effectiveness of certain controls over the development of significant assumptions used to determine the fair values of certain identifiable intangible assets, and controls over the selection of the valuation models used by management.

•

Assessing the reasonableness of significant underlying assumptions through: (i) evaluating historical performance of target entities, (ii) assessing financial projections against industry metrics and peer-group companies, and (iii) performing sensitivity analyses and evaluating the potential effect of changes in the significant assumptions.

•

Utilizing personnel with specialized knowledge and skill with valuation to assist in: (i) assessing the reasonableness of certain significant assumptions incorporated into the various valuation models, and (ii) assessing the appropriateness of various valuation models utilized by management to determine the fair values of the assets acquired

.

Uncertain Tax Position

As described in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements the Company operates in multiple jurisdictions and is subject to transfer pricing compliance for intercompany transactions that are subject to audit by taxing authorities. The resolution of these audits may span multiple years.

We identified the determination of uncertain tax positions related to transfer pricing from intercompany transactions as a critical audit matter. The principal considerations for our determination included complex judgments related to: (i) auditing the measurement of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to certain intercompany transactions because of assumptions applied to the interpretation of tax laws and legal rulings in multiple tax paying jurisdictions, (ii) determining whether a transfer pricing tax position’s technical merits are more-likely-than-not to be sustained when measuring the amount of tax benefits that qualifies for recognition, and (iii) assessing whether intercompany transactions are based on the arm’s length standard that may produce a range of arm’s length outcomes. Auditing these elements involved subjective auditor judgment, including involvement of



our tax professionals with specialized skills and knowledge.

The primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter included:

• Assessing the design and testing operating effectiveness of certain controls over the recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions.

•

Evaluating the appropriateness of management’s methods and assumptions used to estimate uncertain transfer pricing positions related to: (i) evaluating the ranges of arm’s length outcomes and pricing conclusions reached within management’s transfer pricing studies, (ii) verifying our understanding of the relevant facts by reading the Company’s correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and third-party advice obtained by the Company, and (iii) reviewing historical settlement activity from income tax authorities.

•

Utilizing personnel with specialized knowledge and skill in taxation to assist in evaluating the reasonableness of technical merits, management’s judgments and assumptions used in uncertain tax position calculations related to transfer pricing, and assessing the overall reasonableness of conclusions reached.

/s/ BDO USA, LLP

We have served as the Company's auditor since 1984.

New York, NY

February 20, 2020



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands, except share and per share data)

December 28,

December 29,



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

106,097

$

56,885

Accounts receivable, net of reserves of $60,002 and $53,121

1,246,246

1,168,776

Inventories, net

1,428,799

1,415,512

Prepaid expenses and other

445,360

451,033

Assets of discontinued operations

-

1,083,014

Total current assets

3,226,502

4,175,220

Property and equipment, net

329,645

314,221

Operating lease right-of-use assets, net

231,662

-

Goodwill

2,462,495

2,081,029

Other intangibles, net

572,878

376,031

Investments and other

327,919

420,367

Assets of discontinued operations

-

1,133,659

Total assets

$

7,151,101

$

8,500,527

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

880,266

$

785,756

Bank credit lines

23,975

951,458

Current maturities of long-term debt

109,849

8,280

Operating lease liabilities

65,349

-

Liabilities of discontinued operations

-

577,607

Accrued expenses:

Payroll and related

265,206

242,876

Taxes

165,171

154,613

Other

528,553

498,237

Total current liabilities

2,038,369

3,218,827

Long-term debt

622,908

980,344

Deferred income taxes

64,989

27,218

Operating lease liabilities

176,267

-

Other liabilities

331,173

357,741

Liabilities of discontinued operations

-

62,453

Total liabilities

3,233,706

4,646,583

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

287,258

219,724

Redeemable noncontrolling interests from discontinued operations

-

92,432

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' equity:

Preferred stock, $.01 par value, 1,000,000 shares authorized,

none

outstanding

-

-

Common stock, $.01 par value, 480,000,000 shares authorized,

143,353,459 outstanding on December 28, 2019 and

151,401,668 outstanding on December 29, 2018

1,434

1,514

Additional paid-in capital

47,768

-

Retained earnings

3,116,215

3,208,589

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(

167,373

)

(

248,771

)

Total Henry Schein, Inc. stockholders' equity

2,998,044

2,961,332

Noncontrolling interests

632,093

580,456

Total stockholders' equity

3,630,137

3,541,788

Total liabilities, redeemable noncontrolling interests and stockholders' equity

$

7,151,101

$

8,500,527

See accompanying notes.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(in thousands, except per share data)

Years Ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Net sales

$

9,985,803

$

9,417,603

$

8,883,438

Cost of sales

6,894,917

6,506,856

6,136,776

Gross profit

3,090,886

2,910,747

2,746,662

Operating expenses:

Selling, general and administrative

2,357,920

2,217,273

2,071,576

Litigation settlements

-

38,488

5,325

Restructuring costs

14,705

54,367

-

Operating income

718,261

600,619

669,761

Other income (expense):

Interest income

15,757

15,491

12,438

Interest expense

(

50,792

)

(

76,016

)

(

51,066

)

Other, net

(

2,919

)

(

3,258

)

(

1,339

)

Income from continuing operations before taxes, equity in

earnings of affiliates and noncontrolling interests

680,307

536,836

629,794

Income taxes

(

159,515

)

(

107,432

)

(

308,975

)

Equity in earnings of affiliates

17,900

21,037

15,293

Net gain (loss) on sale of equity investments

186,769

-

(

17,636

)

Net income from continuing operations

725,461

450,441

318,476

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

(

6,323

)

111,685

140,817

Net Income

719,138

562,126

459,293

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

(

24,770

)

(

19,724

)

(

25,304

)

Less: Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests

from discontinued operations


(

6,521

)

(

27,690

)

Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.

$

694,734

$

535,881

$

406,299

Amounts attributable to Henry Schein Inc.:

Continuing operations

$

700,691

$

430,717

$

293,172

Discontinued operations

(

5,957

)

105,164

113,127

Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.

$

694,734

$

535,881

$

406,299

Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to

Henry Schein, Inc.:

Basic

$

4.74

$

2.82

$

1.87

Diluted

$

4.69

$

2.80

$

1.85

Earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations

attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.:

Basic

$

(

0.04

)

$

0.69

$

0.72

Diluted

$

(

0.04

)

$

0.68

$

0.72

Earnings per share attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.:

Basic

$

4.70

$

3.51

$

2.59

Diluted

$

4.65

$

3.49

$

2.57

Weighted-average common shares outstanding:

Basic

147,817

152,656

156,787

Diluted

149,257

153,707

158,208

See accompanying notes.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(in thousands)

Years Ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Net income

$

719,138

$

562,126

$

459,293

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:

Foreign currency translation gain (loss)

(

4,070

)

(

136,356

)

191,886

Unrealized gain (loss) from foreign currency hedging activities

(

3,876

)


(


)

Unrealized investment gain (loss)


(


)

(


)

Pension adjustment gain (loss)

(

5,924

)

3,033

3,933

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax

(

13,858

)

(

132,700

)

195,087

Comprehensive income

705,280

429,426

654,380

Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests:

Net income

(

24,404

)

(

26,245

)

(

52,994

)

Foreign currency translation (gain) loss

1,848

13,996

(

8,113

)

Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests

(

22,556

)

(

12,249

)

(

61,107

)

Comprehensive income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.

$

682,724

$

417,177

$

593,273

See accompanying notes.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(In thousands, except share and per share data)

Accumulated

Common Stock

Additional

Other

Total

$.01 Par Value

Paid-in

Retained

Comprehensive

Noncontrolling

Stockholders'

Shares

Amount

Capital

Earnings

Income (Loss)

Interests

Equity

Balance, December 31, 2016

158,805,010

1,588

126,742

2,981,777

(

317,041

)

7,738

2,800,804

Net income (excluding $

52,203

attributable to Redeemable

noncontrolling interests)

-

-

-

406,299

-


407,090

Foreign currency translation gain (excluding gain of $

7,461

attributable to Redeemable noncontrolling interests)

-

-

-

183,773


184,425

Unrealized loss from foreign currency hedging activities,

net of tax benefit of $


-

-

-

-

(


)

-

(


)

Unrealized investment loss, net of tax benefit of $


-

-

-

-

(


)

-

(


)

Pension adjustment gain, net of tax of $


-

-

-

-

3,933

-

3,933

Dividends paid

-

-

-

-

-

(


)

(


)

Other adjustments

-

-


-

-



Purchase of noncontrolling interests

-

-

-

-

(

4,150

)

(

4,150

)

Change in fair value of redeemable securities

-

-

(

162,729

)

-

-

-

(

162,729

)

Initial noncontrolling interests and adjustments related to

business acquisitions

-

-

-

-

-

8,050

8,050

Repurchase and retirement of common stock

(

5,864,404

)

(


)

(

97,205

)

(

352,736

)

-

-

(

450,000

)

Stock issued upon exercise of stock options

197,434


5,264

-

-

-

5,266

Stock-based compensation expense

1,072,922


42,283

-

-

-

42,294

Shares withheld for payroll taxes

(

520,816

)

(


)

(

44,771

)

-

-

-

(

44,776

)

Settlement of stock-based compensation awards

-

-

(


)

-

-

-

(


)

Deferred tax benefit arising from acquisition of

noncontrolling interest in partnership

-

-

35,681

-

-

-

35,681

Transfer of charges in excess of capital

-

-

95,311

(

95,311

)

-

-

-

Balance, December 30, 2017

153,690,146

1,537

-

2,940,029

(

130,067

)

12,911

2,824,410

Cumulative impact of adopting new accounting standards

-

-

2,594

-

-

2,594

Net income (excluding $

21,848

attributable to Redeemable

noncontrolling interests)

-

-

535,881

-

4,397

540,278

Foreign currency translation loss (excluding loss of $

13,031

attributable to Redeemable noncontrolling interests)

-

-

-

-

(

122,360

)

(


)

(

123,325

)

Unrealized gain from foreign currency hedging activities,

net of tax of $


-

-

-

-


-


Unrealized investment loss, net of tax benefit of $


-

-

-

-

(


)

-

(


)

Pension adjustment gain, net of tax of $

1,179

-

-

-

-

3,033

-

3,033

Dividends paid

-

-

-

-

-

(


)

(


)

Other adjustments

-

-

(


)

-

-



Purchase of noncontrolling interests

-

-

-

-

-

(


)

(


)

Change in fair value of redeemable securities

-

-

(

148,919

)

-

-

-

(

148,919

)

Initial noncontrolling interests and adjustments related to

business acquisitions

-

-

-

-

-

564,270

564,270

Repurchase and retirement of common stock

(

2,518,387

)

(


)

(

36,206

)

(

163,769

)

-

-

(

200,000

)

Stock issued upon exercise of stock options

153,516


3,075

-

-

-

3,076

Stock-based compensation expense

340,794


36,236

-

-

-

36,240

Shares withheld for payroll taxes

(

267,772

)

(


)

(

18,140

)

-

-

-

(

18,143

)

Settlement of stock-based compensation awards

3,371

-

(


)

-

-

-

(


)

Deferred tax benefit arising from acquisition of

noncontrolling interest in partnership

-

-

58,554

-

-

-

58,554

Transfer of charges in excess of capital

-

-

106,146

(

106,146

)

-

-

-

Balance, December 29, 2018

151,401,668

1,514

-

3,208,589

(

248,771

)

580,456

3,541,788

Cumulative impact of adopting new accounting standards

-

-

-

(


)

-

-

(


)

Net income (excluding $

14,838

attributable to Redeemable

noncontrolling interests from continuing operations

and ($


) from discontinued operations)

-

-

-

694,734

-

9,932

704,666

Foreign currency translation loss (excluding loss of $

2,335

attributable to Redeemable noncontrolling interests

and ($


) gain from discontinued operations)

-

-

-

-

(

2,222

)

(


)

(

2,327

)

Unrealized loss from foreign currency hedging activities,

net of tax benefit of $

1,035

-

-

-

-

(

3,876

)

-

(

3,876

)

Unrealized investment gain, net of tax of $


-

-

-

-


-


Pension adjustment loss, net of tax benefit of $

1,806

-

-

-

-

(

5,924

)

-

(

5,924

)

Dividends paid

-

-

-

-

-

(


)

(


)

Other adjustments

-

-

(


)

-

-

-

(


)

Change in fair value of redeemable securities

-

-

7,300

-

-

-

7,300

Initial noncontrolling interests and adjustments related to

business acquisitions

-

-

-

-

-

42,345

42,345

Adjustment for Animal Health Spin-off

87,629


-

-

-

-


Repurchase and retirement of common stock

(

8,173,912

)

(


)

(

79,785

)

(

445,133

)

-

-

(

525,000

)

Stock issued upon exercise of stock options

2,526

-


-

-

-


Stock-based compensation expense

215,408


45,243

-

-

-

45,245

Shares withheld for payroll taxes

(

179,860

)

(


)

(

10,844

)

-

-

-

(

10,845

)

Settlement of stock-based compensation awards

-

-


-

-

-


Share Sale related to Animal Health business

-

-

361,090

-

-

-

361,090

Separation of Animal Health business

-

-

(

73,970

)

(

543,158

)

93,408

-

(

523,720

)

Transfer of charges in excess of capital

-

-

(

201,457

)

201,457

-

-

-

Balance, December 28, 2019

143,353,459

1,434

47,768

3,116,215

(

167,373

)

632,093

3,630,137

See accompanying notes.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands)

Years Ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

719,138

$

562,126

$

459,293

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

(

6,323

)

111,685

140,817

Income from continuing operations

725,461

450,441

318,476

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

184,942

143,630

133,855

Net (gain) loss on sale of equity investments

(

250,167

)

-

17,636

Stock-based compensation expense

44,920

32,621

36,845

Provision for losses on trade and other accounts receivable

12,612

14,384

7,915

Benefit from deferred income taxes

(

4,057

)

(

36,007

)

(

1,773

)

Equity in earnings of affiliates

(

17,900

)

(

21,037

)

(

15,293

)

Distributions from equity affiliates

71,469

20,386

20,895

Changes in unrecognized tax benefits

1,941

(

1,169

)

(

2,208

)

Provision for (benefit from) transition tax

-

(

10,000

)

140,000

Other

5,684


9,850

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:

Accounts receivable

(

72,689

)

(

127,201

)

(

128,498

)

Inventories

14,702

(

41,042

)

(

143,155

)

Other current assets

(

57,291

)

(

165,645

)

(

101,024

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

160,851

191,225

81,514

Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations

820,478

450,955

375,035

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from discontinued operations

(

166,391

)

233,751

170,480

Net cash provided by operating activities

654,087

684,706

545,515

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchases of fixed assets

(

76,219

)

(

71,283

)

(

62,404

)

Payments related to equity investments and business

acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(

655,879

)

(

53,240

)

(

181,415

)

Proceeds from sale of equity investment

307,251

1,000

34,048

Repayments from (borrowings for) loan to affiliate

16,713

(

25,700

)

6,700

Other

(

14,175

)

(

15,101

)

(

9,670

)

Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations

(

422,309

)

(

164,324

)

(

212,741

)

Net cash used in investing activities from discontinued operations

(

2,064

)

(

28,630

)

(

129,535

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(

424,373

)

(

192,954

)

(

342,276

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Net change in bank borrowings

(

927,912

)

210,741

302,941

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt


115,000

200,440

Principal payments for long-term debt

(

260,944

)

(

24,735

)

(

59,288

)

Debt issuance costs

(


)

(


)

(

1,892

)

Proceeds from issuance of stock upon exercise of stock options


3,076

5,266

Payments for repurchases of common stock

(

525,000

)

(

200,000

)

(

450,000

)

Payments for taxes related to shares withheld for employee taxes

(

10,814

)

(

18,023

)

(

44,832

)

Distribution received related to Animal Health Spin-off

1,120,000

-

-

Proceeds related to Animal Health Share Sale

361,090

-

-

Proceeds from (distributions to) noncontrolling shareholders

51,498

(

7,351

)

(

8,673

)

Acquisitions of noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

(

2,358

)

(

287,635

)

(

11,532

)

Payments to Henry Schein Animal Health Business

(

169,295

)

(

192,745

)

(

6,374

)

Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations

(

363,351

)

(

402,173

)

(

73,944

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities from discontinued operations

147,371

(

201,603

)

(

38,607

)

Net cash used in financing activities

(

215,980

)

(

603,776

)

(

112,551

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations

14,394

14,425

26,985

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations

(

2,240

)

3,150

(

5,396

)

Net change in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations

49,212

(

101,117

)

115,335

Net change in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations

(

23,324

)

6,668

(

3,058

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period

56,885

158,002

42,667

Cash and cash equivalents, end of period

$

106,097

$

56,885

$

158,002

See accompanying notes.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 1 –Significant Accounting Policies

Nature of Operations

We distribute health care products and services primarily to office-based health care practitioners with operations or affiliates in the United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom.

Principles of Consolidation

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Henry Schein, Inc. and all of our controlled subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which are greater than or equal to 20% and less than or equal to 50% owned or investments in unconsolidated affiliates of less than 20% in which we have the ability to influence the operating or financial decisions, are accounted for under the equity method. See Note 8 for accounting treatment of Redeemable noncontrolling interests. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.

We consolidate a Variable Interest Entity (“VIE”) where we hold a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. The VIE is a trade accounts receivable securitization. We are the primary beneficiary because we have the power to direct activities that most significantly affect the economic performance and have the obligation to absorb the majority of the losses or benefits. The results of operations and financial position of this VIE are included in our consolidated financial statements.

For the consolidated VIE, the trade accounts receivable transferred to the VIE are pledged as collateral to the related debt. The creditors have recourse to us for losses on these trade accounts receivable. For the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, trade accounts receivable that can only be used to settle obligations of this VIE were $


million and $


million, respectively, and the liabilities of the VIE where the creditors have recourse to us were $


million and $


million, respectively.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Fiscal Year

We report our results of operations and cash flows on a


-


week basis ending on the last Saturday of December.

The years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018

and December 30, 2017

consisted of


weeks.

Revenue Recognition

On

December 31, 2017

, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 (“Topic 606”) using the

modified retrospective

method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of the adoption date. Results for reporting periods beginning after December 30, 2017 are presented under Topic 606, while

prior period amounts are not adjusted

and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Our revenue recognition accounting policies applied prior to adoption of Topic 606 are outlined in the financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017. The disclosures included herein reflect our accounting policies under Topic 606.

Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive for those goods or services. To recognize revenue, we do the following:

• identify the contract(s) with a customer;

• identify the performance obligations in the contract;

• determine the transaction price;

• allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and

• recognize revenue when, or as, the entity satisfies a performance obligation.

We generate revenue from the sale of dental and medical consumable products, equipment (Health care distribution revenues), software products and services and other sources (Technology and value-added services revenues). Provisions for discounts, rebates to customers, customer returns and other contra revenue adjustments are included in the transaction price at contract inception by estimating the most likely amount based upon historical data and estimates and are provided for in the period in which the related sales are recognized.

Revenue derived from the sale of consumable products is recognized at a point in time when control transfers to the customer. Such sales typically entail high-volume, low-dollar orders shipped using third-party common carriers. We believe that the shipment date is the most appropriate point in time indicating control has transferred to the customer because we have no post-shipment obligations and this is when legal title and risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the customer and the point at which we have an enforceable right to payment.

Revenue derived from the sale of equipment is recognized when control transfers to the customer. This occurs when the equipment is delivered. Such sales typically entail scheduled deliveries of large equipment primarily by equipment service technicians. Some equipment sales require minimal installation, which is typically completed at the time of delivery. Our product generally carries standard warranty terms provided by the manufacturer, however, in instances where we provide warranty labor services, the warranty costs are accrued in accordance with ASC 460 “Guarantees”.

Revenue derived from the sale of software products is recognized when products are shipped to customers or made available electronically. Such software is generally installed by customers and does not require extensive training due to the nature of its design. Revenue derived from post-contract customer support for software, including annual support and/or training, is generally recognized over time using time elapsed as the input method that best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.

Revenue derived from other sources, including freight charges, equipment repairs and financial services, is recognized when the related product revenue is recognized or when the services are provided. We apply the practical expedient to treat shipping and handling activities performed after the customer obtains control as fulfillment activities, rather than a separate performance obligation in the contract.

Sales, value-add and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Certain of our revenue is derived from bundled arrangements that include multiple distinct performance obligations which are accounted for separately. When we sell software products together with related services (i.e., training and technical support), we allocate revenue to software using the residual method, using an estimate of the standalone selling price to estimate the fair value of the undelivered elements. There are no cases where revenue is deferred due to a lack of a standalone selling price. Bundled arrangements that include elements that are not considered software consist primarily of equipment and the related installation service. We allocate revenue for such arrangements based on the relative selling prices of the goods or services. If an observable selling price is not available (i.e., we do not sell the goods or services separately), we use one of the following techniques to estimate the standalone selling price: adjusted market approach; cost-plus approach; or the residual method. There is no specific hierarchy for the use of these methods, but the estimated selling price reflects our best estimate of what the selling prices of each deliverable would be if it were sold regularly on a standalone basis taking into consideration the cost structure of our business, technical skill required, customer location and other market conditions

See Note 17 for additional disclosures of disaggregated net sales and Note 18 for disclosures of net sales by segment and geographic data.

Contract Balances

Contract balances represent amounts presented in our consolidated balance sheet when either we have transferred goods or services to the customer or the customer has paid consideration to us under the contract. These contract balances include accounts receivable, contract assets and contract liabilities.

Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable are generally recognized when heath care distribution and technology and value-added services revenues are recognized. The carrying amount of accounts receivable is reduced by a valuation allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amounts that will not be collected. In addition to reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, we consider many factors in estimating our reserve, including historical data, experience, customer types, credit worthiness and economic trends. From time to time, we adjust our assumptions for anticipated changes in any of these or other factors expected to affect collectability.

Contract Assets

Contract assets include amounts related to any conditional right to consideration for work completed but not billed as of the reporting date and generally represent amounts owed to us by customers, but not yet billed. Contract assets are transferred to accounts receivable when the right becomes unconditional. The contract assets primarily relate to our bundled arrangements for the sale of equipment and consumables and sales of term software licenses. Current contract assets are included in Prepaid expenses and other and the non-current contract assets are included in Investments and other within our consolidated balance sheet. Current and non-current contract asset balances as of December 28, 2019

and December 29, 2018 were not material.

Contract Liabilities

Contract liabilities are comprised of advance payments and upfront payments for service arrangements provided over time that are accounted for as deferred revenue amounts. Contract liabilities are transferred to revenue once the performance obligation has been satisfied. Current contract liabilities are included in Accrued expenses: Other and the non-current contract liabilities are included in Other liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet. At December 29, 2018, the current portion of contract liabilities of $

65.3

million was reported in Accrued expenses: Other, and $

5.0

million related to non-current contract liabilities were reported in Other liabilities. During the year ended December 28, 2019, we recognized substantially all of the current contract liability amounts that were



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

previously deferred at December 29, 2018. At December 28, 2019, the current and non-current portion of contract liabilities were $

70.8

million and $

6.2

million, respectively.

Deferred Commissions

Sales commissions earned by our sales force that relate to long term arrangements are capitalized as costs to obtain a contract when the costs incurred are incremental and are expected to be recovered. Deferred sales commissions are amortized over the estimated customer relationship period.

We apply the practical expedient related to the capitalization of incremental costs of obtaining a contract, and recognize such costs as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that we would have recognized is one year or less.

Our deferred commission balances as of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 were not material.

Sales Returns

Sales returns are recognized as a reduction of revenue by the amount of expected returns and are recorded as refund liability within current liabilities. We estimate the amount of revenue expected to be reversed to calculate the sales return liability based on historical data for specific products, adjusted as necessary for new products. The allowance for returns is presented gross as a refund liability and we record an inventory asset (and a corresponding adjustment to cost of sales) for any goods or services that we expect to be returned.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

We consider all highly liquid short-term investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Due to the short-term maturity of such investments, the carrying amounts are a reasonable estimate of fair value. Outstanding checks in excess of funds on deposit of $

29.5

million and $

41.1

million, primarily related to payments for inventory, were classified as accounts payable as of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018.

Inventories and Reserves

Inventories consist primarily of finished goods and are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out method for merchandise or actual cost for large equipment and high tech equipment. In accordance with our policy for inventory valuation, we consider many factors including the condition and salability of the inventory, historical sales, forecasted sales and market and economic trends. From time to time, we adjust our assumptions for anticipated changes in any of these or other factors expected to affect the value of inventory.

Direct Shipping and Handling Costs

Freight and other direct shipping costs are included in cost of sales. Direct handling costs, which represent primarily direct compensation costs of employees who pick, pack and otherwise prepare, if necessary, merchandise for shipment to our customers are reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses. Direct shipping and handling costs were $

73.8

million, $

70.6

million and $

65.0

million for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017.

Advertising and Promotional Costs

We generally expense advertising and promotional costs as incurred. Total advertising and promotional expenses were $

25.2

million, $

12.9

million and $

0.8

million for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Supplier Rebates

Supplier rebates are included as a reduction of cost of sales and are recognized over the period they are earned. The factors we consider in estimating supplier rebate accruals include forecasted inventory purchases and sales, in conjunction with supplier rebate contract terms, which generally provide for increasing rebates based on either increased purchase or sales volume.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation or amortization. Depreciation is computed primarily under the straight-line method (see Note 3 - Property and Equipment, Net for estimated useful lives). Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the straight-line method over the lesser of the useful life of the assets or the lease term.

Capitalized software costs consist of costs to purchase and develop software. Costs incurred during the application development stage for software bought and further customized by outside suppliers for our use and software developed by a supplier for our proprietary use are capitalized. Costs incurred for our own personnel who are directly associated with software development are capitalized.

Income Taxes

We account for income taxes under an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, we generally consider all expected future events other than enactments of changes in tax laws or rates. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized as income or expense in the period that includes the enactment date. Our accounting for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted on December 22, 2017, is further discussed in Note 14–Income Taxes. We file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with our


% or greater owned U.S. subsidiaries.

Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions

The financial position and results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries are determined using local currency as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated at the exchange rate in effect at each year-end. Income statement accounts are translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments arising from the use of differing exchange rates from period to period are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in earnings.

Risk Management and Derivative Financial Instruments

We use derivative instruments to minimize our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our objective is to manage the impact that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could have on recognized asset and liability fair values, earnings and cash flows, as well as our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. Our risk management policy requires that derivative contracts used as hedges be effective at reducing the risks associated with the exposure being hedged and be designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract. We do not enter into derivative instruments for speculative purposes. Our derivative instruments primarily include foreign currency forward agreements related to certain intercompany loans, certain forecasted inventory purchase commitments with foreign suppliers and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of our euro-denominated foreign operations which are designated as net investment hedges.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Foreign currency forward agreements related to forecasted inventory purchase commitments with foreign suppliers and foreign currency swaps related to foreign currency denominated debt are designated as cash flow hedges.

For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the changes in the fair value of the derivative is recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity and subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period(s) during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.

We classify the cash flows related to our hedging activities in the same category on our consolidated statements of cash flows as the cash flows related to the hedged item.

Foreign currency forward contracts related to our euro-denominated foreign operations are designated as net investment hedges. For derivatives that are designated and qualify as net investment hedges, the changes in the fair value of the derivative is recorded in the foreign currency translation gain (loss) component of Accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity until the net investment is sold or substantially liquidated.

Our foreign currency forward agreements related to foreign currency balance sheet exposure provide economic hedges but are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.

For agreements not designated as hedges, changes in the value of the derivative, along with the transaction gain or loss on the hedged item, are recorded in earnings

.

Acquisitions

We account for business acquisitions and combinations under the acquisition method of accounting, where the net assets of businesses purchased are recorded at their fair value at the acquisition date and our consolidated financial statements include their results of operations from that date. Any excess of acquisition consideration over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The major classes of assets and liabilities that we generally allocate purchase price to, excluding goodwill, include identifiable intangible assets (i.e., trademarks and trade names, customer relationships and lists, non-compete agreements and product development), property, plant and equipment, deferred taxes and other current and long-term assets and liabilities. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on critical estimates, judgments and assumptions derived from: analysis of market conditions; discount rates; discounted cash flows; customer retention rates; and estimated useful lives. Some prior owners of such acquired subsidiaries are eligible to receive additional purchase price cash consideration if certain financial targets are met. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value those assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as contingent consideration, where applicable, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill within our consolidated balance sheets. At the end of the measurement period or final determination of the values of such assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. For the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, there were no material adjustments recorded in our consolidated statement of income relating to changes in subsequent adjustments or estimated contingent purchase price liabilities.

Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests

Some minority stockholders in certain of our subsidiaries have the right, at certain times, to require us to acquire their ownership interest in those entities at fair value. Their interests in these subsidiaries are classified outside permanent equity on our consolidated balance sheets and are carried at the estimated redemption amounts. The redemption amounts have been estimated based on expected future earnings and cash flow and, if such earnings and cash flow are not achieved, the value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests might be impacted. Changes in the estimated redemption amounts of the noncontrolling interests subject to put options are reflected at each reporting



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

period with a corresponding adjustment to Additional paid-in capital. Future reductions in the carrying amounts are subject to a “floor” amount that is equal to the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests at the time they were originally recorded. The recorded value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests cannot go below the floor level. These adjustments do not impact the calculation of earnings per share.

Noncontrolling Interests

Noncontrolling interests represent our less than 50% ownership interest in an acquired subsidiary. Our net income is reduced by the portion of the subsidiaries net income that is attributable to noncontrolling interests.

Goodwill

Goodwill is not amortized, but are subject to impairment analysis at least once annually. Such impairment analyses for goodwill require a comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of reporting units. We regard our reporting units to be our operating segments: health care distribution (global dental and medical) and technology and value-added services. Goodwill was allocated to such reporting units, for the purposes of preparing our impairment analyses, based on a specific identification basis.

For the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 we tested goodwill for impairment using a quantitative analysis consisting of a two-step approach. The first step of our quantitative analysis consists of a comparison of the carrying value of our reporting units, including goodwill, to the estimated fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow methodology. If step one results in the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeding the fair value of such reporting unit, we would then proceed to step two which would require us to calculate the amount of impairment loss, if any, that we would record for such reporting unit. The calculation of the impairment loss in step two would be equivalent to the reporting unit’s carrying value of goodwill less the implied fair value of such goodwill.

Our use of a discounted cash flow methodology includes estimates of future revenue based upon budget projections and growth rates, which take into account estimated inflation rates. We also develop estimates for future levels of gross profits and operating profits and projected capital expenditures. Our methodology also includes the use of estimated discount rates based upon industry and competitor analysis as well as other factors. The estimates that we use in our discounted cash flow methodology involve many assumptions by management that are based upon future growth projections.

Some factors we consider important that could trigger an interim impairment review include:

• significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;

• significant changes in the manner of our use of acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business (e.g., decision to divest a business); or

• significant negative industry or economic trends.

If we determine through the impairment review process that goodwill is impaired, we record an impairment charge in our consolidated statements of income.

For the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, the results of our goodwill analysis did

no

t result in any impairments.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Long-Lived Assets

Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be derived from such assets.

Definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of non-compete agreements, trademarks, trade names, customer lists, customer relationships and intellectual property. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value. When an impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value.

Cost of Sales

The primary components of cost of sales include the cost of the product (net of purchase discounts, supplier chargebacks and rebates) and inbound and outbound freight charges. Costs related to purchasing, receiving, inspections, warehousing, internal inventory transfers and other costs of our distribution network are included in selling, general and administrative expenses along with other operating costs.

As a result of different practices of categorizing costs associated with distribution networks throughout our industry, our gross margins may not necessarily be comparable to other distribution companies. Total distribution network costs were $

72.3

million, $

69.6

million and $

67.5

million for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017.

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income includes certain gains and losses that, under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, are excluded from net income as such amounts are recorded directly as an adjustment to stockholders’ equity. Our comprehensive income is primarily comprised of net income, foreign currency translation gain (loss), unrealized gain (loss) from foreign currency hedging activities, unrealized investment gain (loss) and pension adjustment gain (loss).

Leases

We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception. An arrangement contains a lease if it implicitly or explicitly identifies an asset to be used and conveys the right to control the use of the identified asset in exchange for consideration. As a lessee, we include operating leases in Operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, Operating lease liabilities, and Non-current operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Finance leases are included in Property and equipment, Current maturities of long-term debt, and Long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet.

ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized upon commencement of the lease based on the present value of the lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit interest rate, we generally use our incremental borrowing rate based on the estimated rate of interest for fully amortizing borrowings over a similar term of the lease payments at commencement date to determine the present value of lease payments. When readily determinable, we use the implicit rate.

Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.

Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Expenses associated with operating leases finance leases are included in “Selling, general and



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

administrative” and “Interest expense”, respectively within our Consolidated Statement of Income.

Leases with a lease term of 12 months or less are not capitalized.

We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component, except non-lease components for leases of vehicles which are accounted for separately. When a vehicle lease contains both lease and non-lease components, we allocate the transaction price based on the relative standalone selling price.

Accounting Pronouncements Adopted

In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02 “Leases (Topic 842)” related to leases requiring the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. Most significant among the changes in the standard is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessors for those leases classified as operating leases. Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.

We adopted the standard

on December 30, 2018 using a

modified retrospective

approach utilizing a transition relief expedient method whereby we continue to apply existing lease guidance during the comparative periods and apply the new lease requirements through a cumulative-effect adjustment in the period of adoption, rather than in the earliest period presented

without adjusting historical financial statements

.

We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which, among other things, allowed us to carry forward the historical lease classification.

Information related to leases as of December 28, 2019

is presented under Topic 842, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under legacy guidance in Topic 840.

The most significant impact was the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while our accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.

Adoption of the new standard resulted in the recording of additional net operating lease assets of $

259.9

million and operating lease liabilities of $

267.3

million, and a decrease of $

1.1

million and $

8.5

million in prepaid rent and deferred rent liabilities, respectively. The standard did not materially impact our consolidated net income and had no impact on cash flows.

In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02, "Treatment of Stranded Tax Effects in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Resulting From the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017," which allows the reclassification from accumulated comprehensive income to retained earnings the income tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”). The

adoption of this ASU

did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging” (Topic 815), which simplified the requirements for hedge accounting, more closely aligns hedge accounting risk with risk management activities and increases transparency of the scope and results of hedging activities. This ASU amends the presentation and disclosure requirements and changes how we can assess the effectiveness of our hedging relationships. This ASU will make more financial and nonfinancial hedging strategies eligible for hedge accounting. The

adoption of this ASU

did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" which requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost. This ASU is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019. This ASU is required to be adopted using the modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance of this ASU is effective. Based upon the level and makeup of our financial asset portfolio, past loan loss activity and current known activity regarding our outstanding loans, we do not expect that this ASU will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, “Intangibles-Goodwill and Other” (Topic 350) (“ASU 2017-04”). ASU 2017-04 eliminates step two from the goodwill impairment test, thereby eliminating the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of a reporting unit. ASU 2017-04 will require us to perform our annual goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of our reporting units to the carrying value of those units. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, we will be required to recognize an impairment charge; however, the impairment charge should not exceed the amount of goodwill allocated to such reporting unit. ASU 2017-04 is required to be implemented on a prospective basis for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. We do not expect that the requirements of ASU 2017-04 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements

.

In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12, “Income Taxes” (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes (“ASU 2019-12”). ASU 2019-12 will simplify the accounting for income taxes by removing certain exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740. The amendments also improve consistent application of and simplify GAAP for other areas of Topic 740 by clarifying and amending existing guidance. We do not expect that the requirements of ASU 2017-04 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 2 – Discontinued Operations

Animal Health Spin-off

On February 7, 2019 (the “Distribution Date”), we completed the separation (the “Separation”) and subsequent merger (“Merger”) of our animal health business (the “Henry Schein Animal Health Business”) with Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. (d/b/a Vets First Choice, “Vets First Choice”). This was accomplished by a series of transactions among us, Vets First Choice, Covetrus, Inc. (f/k/a HS Spinco, Inc. “Covetrus”), a wholly owned subsidiary of ours prior to the Distribution Date, and HS Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus (“Merger Sub”). In connection with the Separation, we contributed, assigned and transferred to Covetrus certain applicable assets, liabilities and capital stock or other ownership interests relating to the Henry Schein Animal Health Business. On the Distribution Date, we received a tax-free distribution of $

1,120

million from Covetrus pursuant to certain debt financing incurred by Covetrus. On the Distribution Date and prior to the Animal Health Spin-off, Covetrus issued shares of Covetrus common stock to certain institutional accredited investors (the “Share Sale Investors”) for $

361.1

million (the “Share Sale”). The proceeds of the Share Sale were paid to Covetrus and distributed to us. Subsequent to the Share Sale, we distributed, on a pro rata basis, all of the shares of the common stock of Covetrus held by us to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 17, 2019 (the “Animal Health Spin-off”). After the Share Sale and Animal Health Spin-off, Merger Sub consummated the Merger whereby it merged with and into Vets First Choice, with Vets First Choice surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus. Immediately following the consummation of the Merger, on a fully diluted basis, (i) approximately


% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by our stockholders and the Share Sale Investors, and (b) held by certain employees of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business (in the form of certain equity awards), and (ii) approximately


% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by stockholders of Vets First Choice immediately prior to the Merger, and (b) held by certain employees of Vets First Choice (in the form of certain equity awards). After the Separation and the Merger, we no longer beneficially owned any shares of Covetrus common stock and, following the Distribution Date, will not consolidate the financial results of Covetrus for the purpose of our financial reporting. Following the Separation and the Merger, Covetrus was an independent, publicly traded company on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

In connection with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off, we entered into a transition services agreement with Covetrus under which we have agreed to provide certain transition services for up to twenty-four months in areas such as information technology, finance and accounting, human resources, supply chain, and real estate and facility services.

As a result of the Separation, the financial position and results of operations of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business are presented as discontinued operations and have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. The accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements have been revised to reflect the effect of the Separation and all prior year balances have been revised accordingly to reflect continuing operations only. The historical statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Shareholders' Equity have not been revised to reflect the Separation and instead reflect the Separation as an adjustment to the balances at December 28, 2019.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Summarized financial information for our discontinued operations is as follows:

Year Ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Net sales

$

319,522

$

3,784,392

$

3,578,105

Cost of goods sold

260,097

3,100,055

2,925,664

Gross profit

59,425

684,337

652,441

Selling, general and administrative

68,919

531,905

462,835

Operating income (loss)

(

9,494

)

152,432

189,606

Income tax expense (benefit)

(

2,181

)

48,060

53,532

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

(

6,323

)

111,685

140,817

Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests


(

6,521

)

(

27,690

)

Net income (loss) from discontinued operations

attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.

(

5,957

)

105,164

113,127

The financial information above represents activity of the discontinued operations during the year through the Distribution Date. The loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 28, 2019 was primarily attributable to the inclusion of the transaction costs directly related to the Animal Health Spin-off. See Note 23-Related Party Transactions for additional information.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

The following are the amounts of assets and liabilities that were transferred to Covetrus as of February 7, 2019 and December 29, 2018.

February 7,

December 29,



Cash and cash equivalents

$

6,815

$

23,324

Accounts receivable, net

432,812

434,935

Inventories, net

536,637

555,230

Prepaid expenses and other

120,546

69,525

Total current assets of discontinued operations

1,096,810

1,083,014

Property and equipment, net

69,790

68,177

Operating lease right-of-use asset, net

57,012

-

Goodwill

742,931

739,266

Other intangibles, net

205,793

208,213

Investments and other

120,518

118,003

Total long-term assets of discontinued operations

1,196,044

1,133,659

Total assets of discontinued operations

$

2,292,854

$

2,216,673

Accounts payable

$

316,162

$

441,453

Current maturities of long-term debt



Operating lease liabilities

18,951

-

Accrued expenses:

Payroll and related

36,847

36,888

Taxes

24,060

17,552

Other

80,400

81,039

Total current liabilities of discontinued operations

477,077

577,607

Long-term debt

1,176,105

23,529

Deferred income taxes

17,019

4,352

Operating lease liabilities

38,668

-

Other liabilities

29,209

34,572

Total long-term liabilities of discontinued operations

1,261,001

62,453

Total liabilities of discontinued operations

$

1,738,078

$

640,060

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

$

28,270

$

92,432



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 3 – Property and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed primarily under the straight-line method over the estimated useful life. Depreciation of leasehold improvements is computed using the straight-line method over the lesser of the useful life of the assets or the lease term. Property and equipment, including related estimated useful lives, consisted of the following:

December 28,

December 29,



Land

$

18,030

$

17,985

Buildings and permanent improvements

121,823

127,012

Leasehold improvements

104,089

103,929

Machinery and warehouse equipment

124,640

108,249

Furniture, fixtures and other

99,083

120,693

Computer equipment and software

330,926

427,237

798,591

905,105

Less accumulated depreciation

(

468,946

)

(

590,884

)

Property and equipment, net

$

329,645

$

314,221

Estimated Useful

Lives (in years)

Buildings and permanent improvements


Machinery and warehouse equipment


-


Furniture, fixtures and other


-


Computer equipment and software


-


Property and equipment related depreciation expense for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was $

64.4

million, $

58.1

million and $

54.7

million.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 4 – Goodwill and Other Intangibles, Net

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 were as follows:

Health Care Distribution

Technology and Value-Added Services

Total

Balance as of December 30, 2017

$

1,431,680

$

121,902

$

1,553,582

Adjustments to goodwill:

Acquisitions

38,848

530,064

568,912

Foreign currency translation

(

37,116

)

(

4,349

)

(

41,465

)

Balance as of December 29, 2018

1,433,412

647,617

2,081,029

Adjustments to goodwill:

Acquisitions

50,276

338,352

388,628

Foreign currency translation

(

6,969

)

(


)

(

7,162

)

Balance as of December 28, 2019

$

1,476,719

$

985,776

$

2,462,495

Other intangible assets consisted of the following:

December 28, 2019

December 29, 2018

Accumulated

Accumulated

Cost

Amortization

Net

Cost

Amortization

Net

Non-compete agreements

$

34,553

$

(

9,327

)

$

25,226

$

34,667

$

(

6,834

)

$

27,833

Trademarks / trade names - definite lived

99,314

(

44,134

)

55,180

72,462

(

36,165

)

36,297

Customer relationships and lists

715,630

(

274,330

)

441,300

479,542

(

216,007

)

263,535

Product Development

85,211

(

42,326

)

42,885

73,294

(

34,689

)

38,605

Other

26,237

(

17,950

)

8,287

34,620

(

24,859

)

9,761

Total

$

960,945

$

(

388,067

)

$

572,878

$

694,585

$

(

318,554

)

$

376,031

Non-compete agreements represent amounts paid primarily to key employees and prior owners of acquired businesses, as well as certain sales persons, in exchange for placing restrictions on their ability to pose a competitive risk to us. Such amounts are amortized, on a straight-line basis over the respective non-compete period, which generally commences upon termination of employment or separation from us. The weighted-average non-compete period for agreements currently being amortized was approximately

4.9

years as of December 28, 2019.

Trademarks, trade names, customer lists and customer relationships were established through business acquisitions. Definite-lived trademarks and trade names are amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average period of approximately

8.0

years as of December 28, 2019. Customer relationships and customer lists are definite-lived intangible assets that are amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average period of approximately

10.0

years as of December 28, 2019. Product development is a definite-lived intangible asset that is amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average period of approximately

8.6

years as of December 28, 2019.

Amortization expense related to definite-lived intangible assets for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was $

108.3

million, $

75.3

million and $

70.3

million. The annual amortization expense expected to be recorded for existing intangibles assets for the years 2020 through 2024 is $

102.7

million, $

95.6

million, $

81.4

million, $

73.7

million and $

59.3

million.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 5 – Investments and Other

Investments and other consisted of the following:

December 28,

December 29,



Investment in unconsolidated affiliates

$

164,659

$

260,954

Non-current deferred foreign, state and local income taxes

23,625

12,196

Notes receivable (1)

43,544

66,047

Capitalized costs for internally generated software for resale

42,445

37,659

Distribution rights and exclusivity agreements, net of amortization



Security deposits


-

Acquisition-related indemnification

38,464

28,283

Other long-term assets

14,644

14,646

Total

$

327,919

$

420,367

(1)

Long-term notes receivable carry interest rates ranging from

1.0

% to

11.5

% and are due in varying installments through

February 01, 2025.

Amortization expense related to other long-term assets for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was $

12.3

million, $

10.2

million and $

8.8

million.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 6 – Debt

Bank Credit Lines

Bank credit lines consisted of the following:

December 28,

December 29,



Revolving credit agreement

$

-

$

175,000

Other short-term bank credit lines

23,975

376,458

Committed loan associated with Animal Health spin-off

-

400,000

Total

$

23,975

$

951,458

Revolving Credit Agreement

On

April 18, 2017

, we entered into a $


million revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), which matures in

April 2022

. The interest rate is based on the USD LIBOR plus a spread based on our leverage ratio at the end of each financial reporting quarter. We expect that the LIBOR rate will be discontinued at some point during 2021. We expect to work with our lenders to identify a suitable replacement rate and amend our debt agreements to reflect this new reference rate accordingly. We do not believe that the discontinuation of LIBOR as a reference rate in our debt agreements will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or materially affect our interest expense. Additionally, the Credit Agreement provides, among other things, that we are required to maintain maximum leverage ratios, and contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants. The Credit Agreement also contains customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions on liens, indebtedness, significant corporate changes (including mergers), dispositions and certain restrictive agreements. As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, the borrowings on this revolving credit facility were $

0.0

million and $

175.0

million, respectively. As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, there were $

9.6

million and $

11.2

million of letters of credit, respectively, provided to third parties under the credit facility.

Other Short-Term Credit Lines

As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, we had various other short-term bank credit lines available, of which $

24.0

million and $

376.5

million, respectively, were outstanding. At December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, borrowings under all of our credit lines had a weighted average interest rate of

3.45

% and

3.30

%, respectively.

Committed Loan Associated with Animal Health Spin-off

On May 21, 2018, we obtained a $


million committed loan which matured on the earlier of (i) March 31, 2019 and (ii) the consummation of the Animal Health Spin-off. The proceeds of this loan were used, among other things, to fund our purchase of all of the equity interests in Butler Animal Health Holding Company, LLC (“BAHHC”) directly or indirectly owned by Darby Group Companies, Inc. (“Darby”) and certain other sellers pursuant to the terms of that certain Amendment to Put Rights Agreements, dated as of April 20, 2018, by and among us, Darby, BAHHC and the individual sellers party thereto for an aggregate purchase price of $


million. As of December 29, 2018, the balance outstanding on this loan was $


million and is included within the “Bank credit lines” caption within our consolidated balance sheet. At December 29, 2018, the interest rate on this loan was

3.38

%. Concurrent with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off on February 7, 2019, we re-paid the balance of this loan.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Long-term debt

Long-term debt consisted of the following:

December 28,

December 29,



Private placement facilities

$

621,274

$

628,189

U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization

100,000

350,000

Various collateralized and uncollateralized loans payable with interest,

in varying installments through 2024 at interest rates

ranging from

2.56

% to

10.5

% at December 28, 2019 and

ranging from

2.61

% to

4.17

% at December 29, 2018

6,089

6,491

Finance lease obligations (see Note 7)

5,394

3,944

Total

732,757

988,624

Less current maturities

(

109,849

)

(

8,280

)

Total long-term debt

$

622,908

$

980,344

Private Placement Facilities

On September 15, 2017, we increased our available private placement facilities with three insurance companies to a total facility amount of $


billion, and extended the expiration date to

September 15, 2020

. These facilities are available on an uncommitted basis at fixed rate economic terms to be agreed upon at the time of issuance, from time to time through

September 15, 2020

. The facilities allow us to issue senior promissory notes to the lenders at a fixed rate based on an agreed upon spread over applicable treasury notes at the time of issuance. The term of each possible issuance will be selected by us and can range from

five

to


years (with an average life no longer than


years). The proceeds of any issuances under the facilities will be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditures, to refinance existing indebtedness and/or to fund potential acquisitions. On June 29, 2018, we amended and restated the above private placement facilities to, among other things, (i) permit the consummation of the Animal Health Spin-off and (ii) provide for the issuance of notes in Euros, British Pounds and Australian Dollars, in addition to U.S. Dollars. The agreements provide, among other things, that we maintain certain maximum leverage ratios, and contain restrictions relating to subsidiary indebtedness, liens, affiliate transactions, disposal of assets and certain changes in ownership. These facilities contain make-whole provisions in the event that we pay off the facilities prior to the applicable due dates.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

The components of our private placement facility borrowings as of December 28, 2019 are presented in the following table (in thousands):

Amount of

Date of

Borrowing

Borrowing

Borrowing

Outstanding

Rate

Due Date

September 2, 2010

$

100,000

3.79

%

September 2, 2020

January 20, 2012

50,000

3.45

January 20, 2024

January 20, 2012 (1)

21,429

3.09

January 20, 2022

December 24, 2012

50,000

3.00

December 24, 2024

June 2, 2014

100,000

3.19

June 2, 2021

June 16, 2017

100,000

3.42

June 16, 2027

September 15, 2017

100,000

3.52

September 15, 2029

January 2, 2018

100,000

3.32

January 2, 2028

Less: Deferred debt issuance costs

(


)

$

621,274

(1)

Annual

repayments of approximately $

7.1

million for this borrowing commenced on

January 20, 2016

.

U.S. Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization

We have a facility agreement with a bank, as agent, based on the securitization of our U.S. trade accounts receivable that is structured as an asset-backed securitization program with pricing committed for up to

three

years. Our current facility, which has a purchase limit of $


million, and was previously scheduled to expire on

April 29, 2020

, has been extended to

April 29, 2022

. As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, the borrowings outstanding under this securitization facility were $


million and $


million, respectively. At December 28, 2019, the interest rate on borrowings under this facility was based on the asset-backed commercial paper rate of

1.90

% plus

0.75

%, for a combined rate of

2.65

%. At December 29, 2018, the interest rate on borrowings under this facility was based on the asset-backed commercial paper rate of

2.66

% plus

0.75

%, for a combined rate of

3.41

%.

We are required to pay a commitment fee of


basis points on the daily balance of the unused portion of the facility if our usage is greater than or equal to


% of the facility limit or a commitment fee of


basis points on the daily balance of the unused portion of the facility if our usage is less than


% of the facility limit.

Borrowings under this facility are presented as a component of Long-term debt within our consolidated balance sheet.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

As of December 28, 2019, the aggregate amounts of long-term debt, including finance lease obligations and net of deferred debt issuance costs of $


, maturing in each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:


$

109,849


108,842


110,504


1,529


101,112

Thereafter

300,921

Total

$

732,757



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 7 – Leases

Leases

We have operating and finance leases for corporate offices, office space, distribution and other facilities, vehicles and certain equipment.

Our leases have remaining terms of less than

one

year to


years, some of which

may include options to extend the leases for up to 10 years

. The components of lease expense were as follows:

Year Ended

December 28,


Operating lease cost

(1)

$

88,246

Finance lease cost:

Amortization of right-of-use assets

$

1,154

Interest on lease liabilities


Total finance lease cost

$

1,285

(1)

Includes variable lease expenses.

Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows:

December 28,


Operating Leases:

Operating lease right-of-use assets

$

231,662

Current operating lease liabilities

65,349

Non-current operating lease liabilities

176,267

Total operating lease liabilities

$

241,616

Finance Leases:

Property and equipment, at cost

$

10,268

Accumulated depreciation

(

4,581

)

Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation

$

5,687

Current maturities of long-term debt

$

1,736

Long-term debt

3,658

Total finance lease liabilities

$

5,394

Weighted Average Remaining Lease Term in Years:

Operating leases

5.5

Finance leases

5.0

Weighted Average Discount Rate:

Operating leases

3.4

%

Finance leases

2.2

%



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Supplemental cash flow information related to leases is as follows:

December 28,


Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:

Operating cash flows for operating leases

$

79,699

Operating cash flows for finance leases


Financing cash flows for finance leases

1,413

Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations:

Operating leases

(1)

$

297,800

Finance leases

2,940

(1)

Includes leases that commenced during the year ended December 28, 2019, as well as balances related to leases in existence as of the date of the adoption of Topic 842.

Maturities of lease liabilities are as follows:

December 28,


Operating

Finance

Leases

Leases


$

70,986

$

1,853


56,557

1,529


40,601



27,021



18,944


Thereafter

51,762

1,117

Total future lease payments

265,871

5,732

Less: imputed interest

(

24,255

)

(


)

Total

$

241,616

$

5,394

As of December 28, 2019 we have additional operating leases with total lease payments of $

9.0

million for

buildings and vehicles

that have not yet commenced. These operating leases will commence during 2020 with lease terms of

two

to


years.

As previously disclosed in our December 29, 2018 Form 10-K and under the previous lease accounting standard, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases and capital leases as of December 29, 2018 were as follows (in thousands):

Operating

Capital

Leases

Leases


$

62,535

$



47,686



34,633



25,626



19,560


Thereafter

62,918

1,430

Total minimum lease payments

$

252,958

4,296

Less: imputed interest (Capital leases only)

(


)

Total present value of minimum lease payments

$

3,944



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 8 – Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests

Some minority stockholders in certain of our subsidiaries have the right, at certain times, to require us to acquire their ownership interest in those entities at fair value. ASC 480-10 is applicable for noncontrolling interests where we are or may be required to purchase all or a portion of the outstanding interest in a consolidated subsidiary from the noncontrolling interest holder under the terms of a put option contained in contractual agreements. The components of the change in the Redeemable noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 are presented in the following table:

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Balance, beginning of period

$

219,724

$

465,585

$

285,567

Decrease in redeemable noncontrolling interests due to

redemptions

(

2,270

)

(

287,767

)

(

22,294

)

Increase in redeemable noncontrolling interests due to

business acquisitions

74,865

4,655

72,291

Net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests

14,838

15,327

24,513

Dividends declared

(

10,264

)

(

8,206

)

(

7,680

)

Effect of foreign currency translation gain (loss) attributable to

redeemable noncontrolling interests

(

2,335

)

(

11,330

)

4,530

Change in fair value of redeemable securities

(

7,300

)

41,460

108,658

Balance, end of period

$

287,258

$

219,724

$

465,585



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 9 – Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income includes certain gains and losses that, under U.S. GAAP, are excluded from net income as such amounts are recorded directly as an adjustment to stockholders’ equity.

The following table summarizes our Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes as of:

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Attributable to Redeemable noncontrolling interests:

Foreign currency translation adjustment

$

(

20,338

)

$

(

18,595

)

$

(

5,564

)

Attributable to noncontrolling interests:

Foreign currency translation adjustment

$

(


)

$

(


)

$


Attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.:

Foreign currency translation adjustment

$

(

143,172

)

$

(

234,799

)

$

(

112,439

)

Unrealized loss from foreign currency hedging activities

(

4,032

)

(


)

(


)

Unrealized investment gain (loss )


(


)

(


)

Pension adjustment loss

(

20,175

)

(

13,810

)

(

16,843

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(

167,373

)

$

(

248,771

)

$

(

130,067

)

Total Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(

188,242

)

$

(

267,792

)

$

(

135,092

)

The following table summarizes the components of comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes as follows:

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Net income

$

719,138

$

562,126

$

459,293

Foreign currency translation gain (loss)

(

4,070

)

(

136,356

)

191,886

Tax effect

-

-

-

Foreign currency translation gain (loss)

(

4,070

)

(

136,356

)

191,886

Unrealized gain (loss) from foreign currency hedging activities

(

4,911

)

1,022

(

1,515

)

Tax effect

1,035

(


)


Unrealized gain (loss) from foreign currency hedging activities

(

3,876

)


(


)

Unrealized investment gain (loss)


(


)

(


)

Tax effect

(


)

-


Unrealized investment gain (loss)


(


)

(


)

Pension adjustment gain (loss)

(

7,730

)

4,212

4,247

Tax effect

1,806

(

1,179

)

(


)

Pension adjustment gain (loss)

(

5,924

)

3,033

3,933

Comprehensive income

$

705,280

$

429,426

$

654,380



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Our financial statements are denominated in the U.S. Dollar currency. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies as compared to the U.S. Dollar may have a significant impact on our comprehensive income. The foreign currency translation gain (loss) during the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates

of the Euro, Brazilian Real, British Pound and Australian Dollar.

The following table summarizes our total comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes as follows:

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Comprehensive income attributable to

Henry Schein, Inc.

$

682,724

$

417,177

$

593,273

Comprehensive income attributable to

noncontrolling interests

9,827

3,432

1,443

Comprehensive income attributable to

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

12,729

8,817

59,664

Comprehensive income

$

705,280

$

429,426

$

654,380

Note 10 – Fair Value Measurements

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The hierarchy for determining that distinguishes between (1) market participant assumptions developed based on market data obtained from independent sources (observable inputs) and (2) an entity’s own assumptions about market participant assumptions developed based on the best information available in the circumstances (unobservable inputs).

The fair value hierarchy consists of three broad levels, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described as follows:

• Level 1— Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that are accessible at the measurement date.

• Level 2— Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include: quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; and inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.

• Level 3— Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability.

The following section describes the fair values of our financial instruments and the methodologies that we used to measure their fair values.

Investments and notes receivable

There are no quoted market prices available for investments in unconsolidated affiliates and notes receivable; however, we believe the carrying amounts are a reasonable estimate of fair value based on the interest rates in the applicable markets.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Debt

The fair value of our debt (including bank credit lines) is classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy as of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 was estimated at $

756.7

million and $

1,940.1

million, respectively. Factors that we considered when estimating the fair value of our debt include market conditions, such as interest rates and credit spreads.

Derivative contracts

Derivative contracts are valued using quoted market prices and significant other observable and unobservable inputs. We use derivative instruments to minimize our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our derivative instruments primarily include foreign currency forward agreements related to certain intercompany loans, certain forecasted inventory purchase commitments with foreign suppliers and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of our euro-denominated foreign operations which are designated as net investment hedges.

The fair values for the majority of our foreign currency derivative contracts are obtained by comparing our contract rate to a published forward price of the underlying market rates, which is based on market rates for comparable transactions and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

The values for Redeemable noncontrolling interests are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and are based on recent transactions and/or implied multiples of earnings. The details of the changes in Redeemable noncontrolling interests are presented in Note 8.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

The following table presents our assets and liabilities that are measured and recognized at fair value on a recurring basis classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018:

December 28, 2019

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

Assets:

Derivative contracts

$

-

$


$

-

$


Total assets

$

-

$


$

-

$


Liabilities:

Derivative contracts

$

-

$

5,795

$

-

$

5,795

Total liabilities

$

-

$

5,795

$

-

$

5,795

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

$

-

$

-

$

287,258

$

287,258

December 29, 2018

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

Assets:

Derivative contracts

$

-

$

12,533

$

-

$

12,533

Total assets

$

-

$

12,533

$

-

$

12,533

Liabilities:

Derivative contracts

$

-

$

1,708

$

-

$

1,708

Total liabilities

$

-

$

1,708

$

-

$

1,708

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

$

-

$

-

$

219,724

$

219,724



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 11 – Business Acquisitions and Divestitures

The operating results of all acquisitions are reflected in our financial statements from their respective acquisition dates.

We completed acquisitions during the year ended December 28, 2019, which were immaterial to our financial statements individually. In the aggregate, these transactions resulted in consideration of $

652.9

million in 2019 related to business combinations, for net assets amounting to $

19.7

million. As of December 28, 2019, we had recorded $

310.4

million identifiable intangibles, $

395.3

million of goodwill and $

72.5

million of non-controlling interest, related to these acquisitions.

Henry Schein One, LLC

On July 1, 2018, we closed on a joint venture with Internet Brands, a provider of web presence and online marketing software, to create a newly formed entity, Henry Schein One, LLC. The joint venture includes Henry Schein Practice Solutions products and services, as well as Henry Schein’s international dental practice management systems and the dental businesses of Internet Brands. We own


% of the joint venture and Internet Brands owns the remaining


% noncontrolling interest, which is accounted for within stockholders’ equity. In addition, Internet Brands received a freestanding and separately exercisable right to put their noncontrolling interest to Henry Schein, Inc. for fair value following the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the formation of the joint venture. Beginning with the second anniversary of the effective date of the formation of the joint venture, Henry Schein One will issue a fixed number of additional interests to Internet Brands through the fifth anniversary of the effective date, thereby increasing Internet Brands’ ownership by approximately

7.6

%. Internet Brands will also be entitled to receive a fixed number of additional interests, in the aggregate up to approximately

1.6

% of the joint venture’s ownership, if certain operating targets are met by the joint venture in its fourth, fifth and sixth operating years. These additional shares are considered contingent consideration that are accounted for within stockholders’ equity; however these shares will not be allocated any net income of Henry Schein One until the shares vest or are earned by Internet Brands. A Monte Carlo simulation was utilized to value the additional contingent interests that are subject to operating targets. Key assumptions that were applied to derive the fair value of the contingent interests include an assumed equity value of Henry Schein One, LLC at its inception date, a risk-free interest rate based on U.S. treasury yields, an assumed future dividend yield, a risk-adjusted discount rate applied to projected future cash flows, an assumed equity volatility based on historical stock price returns of a group of guideline companies, and an estimated correlation of annual cash flow returns to equity returns. As a result of the transaction with Internet Brands, we recorded $

550.9

million of noncontrolling interest within stockholders’ equity as of December 28, 2019.

Senior management from Henry Schein and Internet Brands serve on the board of Henry Schein One. The goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition primarily reflects the value of future synergies. We allocated all of the goodwill to our Technology and value-added services reporting segment. As of December 28, 2019, the goodwill associated with this transaction is $

533.9

million. None of the goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes, and as such, no deferred taxes have been recorded related to goodwill.

Concurrent with the formation of Henry Schein One, LLC, we entered into a separate agreement with Internet Brands whereby (1) beginning July 1, 2023, Internet Brands will have the right to require Henry Schein to purchase all or a portion of Internet Brands ownership interests in Henry Schein One, LLC for fair market value, and (2) beginning July 1, 2028, or earlier if certain events occur, Henry Schein will have the right to require Internet Brands to sell all or a portion of its ownership interests in Henry Schein One, LLC to Henry Schein for fair market value.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Some prior owners of acquired subsidiaries are eligible to receive additional purchase price cash consideration if certain financial targets are met. We have accrued liabilities for the estimated fair value of additional purchase price consideration at the time of the acquisition. Any adjustments to these accrual amounts are recorded in our consolidated statements of income. For the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, there were no material adjustments recorded in our consolidated statement of income relating to changes in estimated contingent purchase price liabilities.

Divestitures of Investments

During the fourth quarter of 2019, we sold an equity investment in Hu-Friedy Mfg. Co., LLC, a manufacturer of dental instruments and infection prevention solutions. Our investment was non-controlling, we were not involved in running the business and had no representation on the board of directors. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we also sold certain other equity investments. In the aggregate, the sales of these investments resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $

250.2

million, net of taxes of approximately $

63.4

million. For the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, we recognized approximately $

6.0

million, $

10.4

million and $

6.4

million of equity in earnings from these affiliates.

During 2017 we sold our equity ownership in E4D Technologies resulting in a loss of approximately $

17.6

million. There was

no

tax benefit recognized related to this loss.

Acquisition Costs

During the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 we incurred $

4.5

million, $

7.3

million and $

5.3

million in acquisition costs from continuing operations.

In February 2019, we completed the Animal Health Spin-off. During the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, we incurred $

23.6

million and $

38.9

million in transaction costs associated with this transaction. We expect to incur additional spin-off related transaction costs during 2020 related to required tax and other matters. All transaction costs related to the Animal Health Spin-off have been included in results from discontinued operations.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 12 – Plans of Restructuring

On July 9, 2018, we committed to an initiative to rationalize our operations and provide expense efficiencies. These actions allowed us to execute on our plan to reduce our cost structure and fund new initiatives that drive growth under our 2018 to 2020 strategic plan. This initiative has resulted in the elimination of approximately


% of our workforce and the closing of certain facilities.

During the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, we recorded restructuring charges of $

14.7

million and $

54.4

million, respectively. The costs associated with these restructurings are included in a separate line item, “Restructuring costs” within our consolidated statements of income.

On November 20, 2019, we committed to the contemplated initiative, intended to mitigate stranded costs associated with the Animal Health Spin-off as well as to rationalize operations and provide expense efficiencies. These activities are expected to be completed by the end of 2020. We are currently unable in good faith to make a determination of an estimate of the amount or range of amounts expected to be incurred in connection with these activities, both with respect to each major type of cost associated therewith and with respect to the total cost, or an estimate of the amount or range of amounts that will result in future cash expenditures. We will disclose this information after we determine such estimates or range of estimates.

The following table shows the amounts expensed and paid for restructuring costs that were incurred during our 2019, 2018 and 2017 fiscal years and the remaining accrued balance of restructuring costs as of December 28, 2019, which is included in Accrued expenses: Other and Other liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet:

Facility

Severance

Closing

Costs

Costs

Other

Total

Balance, December 31, 2016

$

20,447

$

2,130

$


$

22,650

Provision

-

-

-

-

Payments and other adjustments

(

17,360

)

(


)

(


)

(

18,224

)

Balance, December 30, 2017

$

3,087

$

1,315

$


$

4,426

Provision

50,197

3,153

1,017

54,367

Payments and other adjustments

(

23,320

)

(

2,865

)

(


)

(

27,068

)

Balance, December 29, 2018

$

29,964

$

1,603

$


$

31,725

Provision

13,741



14,705

Payments and other adjustments

(

30,794

)

(

1,714

)

(


)

(

32,620

)

Balance, December 28, 2019

$

12,911

$


$


$

13,810



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

The following table shows, by reportable segment, the amounts expensed and paid for restructuring costs that were incurred during our 2019, 2018 and 2017 fiscal years and the remaining accrued balance of restructuring costs as of December 28, 2019:

Technology and

Health Care

Value-Added

Distribution

Services

Total

Balance, December 31, 2016

$

22,505

$


$

22,650

Provision

-

-

-

Payments and other adjustments

(

18,079

)

(


)

(

18,224

)

Balance, December 30, 2017

$

4,426

$

-

$

4,426

Provision

50,824

3,543

54,367

Payments and other adjustments

(

24,959

)

(

2,109

)

(

27,068

)

Balance, December 29, 2018

$

30,291

$

1,434

$

31,725

Provision

13,935


14,705

Payments and other adjustments

(

30,853

)

(

1,767

)

(

32,620

)

Balance, December 28, 2019

$

13,373

$


$

13,810



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 13 – Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc. by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Our diluted earnings per share is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that it reflects the effect of common shares issuable for presently unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units and upon exercise of stock options, using the treasury stock method in periods in which they have a dilutive effect.

A reconciliation of shares used in calculating earnings per basic and diluted share follows:

Years Ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Basic

147,817

152,656

156,787

Effect of dilutive securities:

Stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units

1,440

1,051

1,421

Diluted

149,257

153,707

158,208



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 14 – Income Taxes

Income before taxes and equity in earnings of affiliates was as follows:

Years ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Domestic

$

507,003

$

405,289

$

526,586

Foreign

173,304

131,547

103,208

Total

$

680,307

$

536,836

$

629,794

The provisions for income taxes were as follows:

Years ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Current income tax expense:

U.S. Federal

$

93,418

$

71,854

$

247,254

State and local

28,150

22,533

19,489

Foreign

42,004

38,433

41,043

Total current

163,572

132,820

307,786

Deferred income tax expense (benefit):

U.S. Federal

5,633


12,927

State and local

1,597

(

1,622

)

1,621

Foreign

(

11,287

)

(

23,972

)

(

13,359

)

Total deferred

(

4,057

)

(

25,388

)

1,189

Total provision

$

159,515

$

107,432

$

308,975



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to our deferred income tax asset (liability) were as follows:

Years Ended

December 28,

December 29,



Deferred income tax asset:

Investment in partnerships

$

1,420

$

4,150

Net operating losses and other carryforwards

43,663

43,754

Inventory, premium coupon redemptions and accounts receivable

valuation allowances

23,808

25,008

Stock-based compensation

14,075

14,880

Uniform capitalization adjustment to inventories

7,259

8,189

Other asset

35,419

38,806

Total deferred income tax asset

125,644

134,787

Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets (1)

(

20,699

)

(

22,403

)

Net deferred income tax asset

104,945

112,384

Deferred income tax liability

Intangibles amortization

(

135,754

)

(

103,309

)

Property and equipment

(

10,555

)

(

13,075

)

Total deferred tax liability

(

146,309

)

(

116,384

)

Net deferred income tax asset (liability)

$

(

41,364

)

$

(

4,000

)

(1)

Primarily relates to operating losses of acquired subsidiaries, the benefits of which are uncertain. Any future reductions of such valuation allowances will be reflected as a reduction of income tax expense in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 805, “Business Combinations.”

The assessment of the amount of value assigned to our deferred tax assets under the applicable accounting rules is judgmental. We are required to consider all available positive and negative evidence in evaluating the likelihood that we will be able to realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets in the future. Such evidence includes scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and the results of recent operations. Since this evaluation requires consideration of events that may occur some years into the future, there is an element of judgment involved. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent on generating sufficient taxable income in future periods. We believe that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be sufficient to allow us to recover substantially all of the value assigned to our deferred tax assets. However, if future events cause us to conclude that it is not more likely than not that we will be able to recover all of the value assigned to our deferred tax assets, we will be required to adjust our valuation allowance accordingly.

As of December 28, 2019, we had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $

2.0

million, which can be utilized against future foreign income through

December 31, 2026

. Additionally, as of December 28, 2019, there were foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $

144.9

million that have an indefinite life. As of December 28, 2019, the company had post-apportionment state net operating loss carryforwards of $

14.3

million, which can be utilized against future state income through

December 31, 2039

. Additionally, as of December 28, 2019, there were post-apportionment state operating loss carryforwards of $

21.1

million that have an indefinite life.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

The tax provisions differ from the amount computed using the federal statutory income tax rate as follows:

Years ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Income tax provision at federal statutory rate

$

142,865

$

112,735

$

220,427

State income tax provision, net of federal income tax effect

16,539

15,872

10,320

Foreign income tax benefit

(

4,580

)

(

2,558

)

(

19,486

)

Pass-through noncontrolling interest

(

3,931

)

(

2,700

)

(

1,465

)

Valuation allowance

(


)

2,017

1,629

Unrecognized tax benefits and audit settlements

3,671

2,126

4,196

Interest expense related to loans

(

5,498

)

(

11,700

)

(

18,492

)

Excess tax benefits related to stock compensation

(


)

(

1,008

)

(

16,964

)

Transition tax on deemed repatriation of foreign earnings

-

(10,000)

140,000

Revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities

-

(

1,676

)

2,953

Tax on global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI")

3,917

7,599

-

Tax benefit related to legal entity reorganization outside the U.S.

-

(

13,852

)

-

Tax charge related to reorganization of legal entities related

to forming Henry Schein One

-

3,914

-

Tax charge (credit) related to reorganization of legal entities

completed in preparation for the Animal Health spin-off

(

1,333

)

3,135

-

Other

8,030

3,528

(

14,143

)

Total income tax provision

$

159,515

$

107,432

$

308,975

For the year ended December 28, 2019, our effective tax rate was

23.4

% compared to

20.0

% for the prior year period. In 2019, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. In 2018, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by a reduction in the estimate of our transition tax associated with the Tax Act, tax charges and credits associated with legal entity reorganizations outside the U.S., and state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. In 2017, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by the Tax Act, the adoption of ASU 2016-09, as well as state and foreign income taxes and interest expense.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government passed the Tax Act. The Tax Act is comprehensive tax legislation that implemented complex changes to the U.S. tax code including, but not limited to, the reduction of the

corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, modification of accelerated depreciation, the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction and changes to the

limitations of the deductibility of interest. Additionally, the Tax Act moved from a global tax regime to a modified territorial regime, which requires U.S. companies to pay a mandatory one-time transition tax on historical offshore earnings that have not been repatriated to the U.S. The transition tax is payable over eight years. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded provisional amounts for any items that could be reasonably estimated at the time. This included the one-time transition tax that we estimated to be $

140.0

million and a net deferred tax expense of $

3.0

million attributable to the revaluation of deferred taxes due to the lower enacted federal income tax rate of 21%.

We completed our analysis in the year ended

December 29, 2018

and recorded a net $

10.0

million reduction to the one-time transition tax and an additional $

1.7

million net deferred tax benefit from the revaluation of deferred taxes to reflect the new tax rate. Absent the effects of the transition tax and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, our effective tax rate for the year ended December 30, 2017 would have been

26.4

% as compared to our actual effective tax rate of

49.1

%.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Within our consolidated balance sheets, transition tax of $

9.9

million was included in “Accrued taxes” for 2019 and 2018, and $

94.9

million and $

104.2

million were included in “Other liabilities” for 2019 and 2018, respectively.

The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740 No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”), states that an entity can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred. We elected to recognize the tax on GILTI as a period expense in the period the tax is incurred. We recorded a current tax expense for the GILTI provision of $

7.6

million and $

3.9

million for 2018 and 2019, respectively.

Due to the one-time transition tax and the imposition of the GILTI provisions, all previously unremitted earnings will no longer be subject to U.S. federal income tax; however, there could be U.S. state and/or foreign withholding taxes upon distribution of such unremitted earnings. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability with respect to such earnings is not practicable.

ASC 740 prescribes the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with other provisions contained within this guidance. This topic prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate audit settlement. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities for uncertain tax positions taken in respect to certain tax matters.

The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits, which are included in “Other liabilities” within our consolidated balance sheets as of December 28, 2019 was approximately $

109.1

million, of which $

91.2

million would affect the effective tax rate if recognized. It is possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits may change in the next 12 months, which may result in a material impact on our consolidated statement of income.

The tax years subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions include the years 2012 and forward by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), as well as the years 2008 and forward for certain states and certain foreign jurisdictions.

All tax returns audited by the IRS are officially closed through 2011. We are currently under audit for the years 2012 and 2013. In the quarter ended December 28, 2019, we reached a settlement with the U.S. Competent Authority to resolve certain transfer pricing issues related to 2012 and 2013. For all remaining outstanding issues for 2012 and 2013, we have provided all necessary documentation to the Appellate Division to date and are waiting for responses. We are also in negotiations with the Advanced Pricing Division to reach an agreement on an appropriate transfer pricing methodology. As part of this process, we have submitted documentation with the objective to reach a resolution for 2014-2021 in order to mitigate future transfer pricing audit adjustments. It is possible that

the resolution with the IRS may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

The total amounts of interest and penalties are classified as a component of the provision for income taxes. The amount of tax interest expense (credits) was approximately $

2.2

million, $

3.6

and $(

2.9

) in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The total amount of accrued interest is included in “Other liabilities”, and was approximately

$

18.0

million as of December 28, 2019

and $

15.6

million as of December 29, 2018.

No

penalties were accrued for the periods presented.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

The following table provides a reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits:

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Balance, beginning of period

$

77,800

$

83,200

$

82,200

Additions based on current year tax positions

4,900

5,000

8,500

Additions based on prior year tax positions

17,300

9,400

5,400

Reductions based on prior year tax positions

(

1,000

)

(

1,600

)

(


)

Reductions resulting from settlements with taxing authorities

(

4,200

)

(

1,600

)

(

10,500

)

Reductions resulting from lapse in statutes of limitations

(

3,700

)

(

16,600

)

(

1,600

)

Balance, end of period

$

91,100

$

77,800

$

83,200

Note 15 – Concentrations of Risk

Certain financial instruments potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk. These financial instruments consist primarily of cash equivalents, trade receivables, long-term investments, notes receivable and derivative instruments. In all cases, our maximum exposure to loss from credit risk equals the gross fair value of the financial instruments. We continuously assess the need for reserves for such losses, which have been within our expectations. We do not require collateral or other security to support financial instruments subject to credit risk, except for long-term notes receivable.

We limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. As a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties.

With respect to our trade receivables, our credit risk is somewhat limited due to a relatively large customer base and its dispersion across different types of health care professionals and geographic areas. For the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 one customer accounted for slightly more than


% of our net sales from continuing operations. With respect to our sources of supply, our top 10 health care distribution suppliers from continuing operations and our single largest supplier from continuing operations accounted for approximately


% and


%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases in 2019 and approximately


% and


%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases in 2018.

Our long-term notes receivable primarily represent strategic financing arrangements with certain industry affiliates and amounts owed to us from sales of certain businesses. Generally, these notes are secured by certain assets of the counter-party; however, in most cases our security is subordinate to other commercial financial institutions. While we have exposure to credit loss in the event of non-performance by these counter-parties, we conduct ongoing assessments of their financial and operational performance.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 16 – Derivatives and Hedging Activities

We are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the U.S. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit risk of the derivative counterparties. We attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. These hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. Factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. All foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. We do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our counterparties, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital.

During 2019 we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of our euro-denominated foreign operations which are designated as net investment hedges. These net investment hedges offset the change in the U.S dollar value of our investment in certain euro-functional currency subsidiaries due to fluctuating foreign exchange rates. Gains and losses related to these net investment hedges are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss within our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness are included in interest expense within our Consolidated Statement of Income. The aggregate notional value of this net investment hedge, which matures on

November 16, 2023

, is €


million. During December 28, 2019 we recognized approximately $0.6 million of interest savings as a result of this net investment hedge.

Fluctuations in the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in U.S. dollars. Where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. We purchase short-term (i.e., generally


months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to our foreign suppliers. We do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into U.S. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. Our hedging activities have historically not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, additional disclosures related to derivatives and hedging activities required by ASC 815 have been omitted.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 17 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers

Revenue (Net sales) is recognized in accordance with the policies discussed in Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies.

Disaggregation of Net sales

The following table disaggregates our Net sales by reportable segment and geographic area:

Year Ended

December 28, 2019

North America

International

Global

Revenues:

Health care distribution

Dental

$

3,911,746

2,504,119

6,415,865

Medical

2,894,137

79,449

2,973,586

Total health care distribution

6,805,883

2,583,568

9,389,451

Technology and value-added services

445,317

69,768

515,085

Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues

(1)

7,251,200

2,653,336

9,904,536

Corporate TSA revenues

(1)

4,098

77,169

81,267

Total revenues

$

7,255,298

$

2,730,505

$

9,985,803

Year Ended

December 29, 2018

North America

International

Global

Revenues:

Health care distribution

Dental

$

3,866,171

2,481,827

6,347,998

Medical

2,581,696

79,470

2,661,166

Total health care distribution

6,447,867

2,561,297

9,009,164

Technology and value-added services

344,168

64,271

408,439

Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues

(1)

6,792,035

2,625,568

9,417,603

Corporate TSA revenues

(1)

-

-

-

Total revenues

$

6,792,035

$

2,625,568

$

9,417,603

(1)

Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain animal health products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement

entered into in connection with the Animal Health Spin-off, which we expect to continue through August 2020.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 18 – Segment and Geographic Data

We conduct our business through

two

reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base.

The health care distribution reportable segment aggregates our global dental and medical operating segments. This segment distributes consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins. Our global dental group serves office-based dental practitioners, dental laboratories, schools and other institutions. Our global medical group serves office-based medical practitioners, ambulatory surgery centers, other alternate-care settings and other institutions. Our global dental and medical groups serve practitioners in


countries worldwide.

Our global technology and value-added services group provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners. Our technology group offerings include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners. Our value-added practice solutions include financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, practice technology, network and hardware services, as well as continuing education services for practitioners.

The following tables present information about our reportable and operating segments:

Years Ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Net Sales:

Health care distribution

(1)

Dental

$

6,415,865

$

6,347,998

$

6,047,811

Medical

2,973,586

2,661,166

2,497,994

Total health care distribution

9,389,451

9,009,164

8,545,805

Technology and value-added services

(2)

515,085

408,439

337,633

Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues

9,904,536

9,417,603

8,883,438

Corporate TSA revenues

(3)

81,267

-

-

Total

$

9,985,803

$

9,417,603

$

8,883,438

(1)

Consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and

generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins.

(2)

Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers,

and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and

other services.

(3)

Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement entered into in connection

with the Animal Health Spin-off, which we expect to continue through August 2020.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Years ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Operating Income:

Health care distribution

$

591,404

$

490,988

$

561,888

Technology and value-added services

126,857

109,631

107,873

Total

$

718,261

$

600,619

$

669,761

Income before taxes and equity in earnings of affiliates:

Health care distribution

$

553,181

$

429,429

$

526,255

Technology and value-added services

127,126

107,407

103,539

Total

$

680,307

$

536,836

$

629,794

Depreciation and Amortization:

Health care distribution

$

146,960

$

122,767

$

116,260

Technology and value-added services

37,982

20,863

17,595

Total

$

184,942

$

143,630

$

133,855

Income Tax Expense:

Health care distribution

$

129,381

$

53,660

$

271,920

Technology and value-added services

30,134

53,772

37,055

Total

$

159,515

$

107,432

$

308,975

Interest Income:

Health care distribution

$

15,352

$

15,106

$

12,236

Technology and value-added services




Total

$

15,757

$

15,491

$

12,438

Interest Expense:

Health care distribution

$

50,666

$

76,006

$

51,039

Technology and value-added services




Total

$

50,792

$

76,016

$

51,066

Purchases of Fixed Assets:

Health care distribution

$

69,095

$

68,577

$

59,865

Technology and value-added services

7,124

2,706

2,539

Total

$

76,219

$

71,283

$

62,404

As of

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Total Assets:

Health care distribution

$

5,822,057

$

5,289,348

$

5,336,320

Technology and value-added services

1,329,044

994,506

334,977

Discontinued operations

-

2,216,673

2,192,698

Total

$

7,151,101

$

8,500,527

$

7,863,995



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

The following table presents information about our operations by geographic area as of and for the three years ended December 28, 2019. Net sales by geographic area are based on the respective locations of our subsidiaries. No country, except for the United States, generated net sales greater than


% of consolidated net sales. There were no material amounts of sales or transfers among geographic areas and there were no material amounts of export sales.




Net Sales

Long-Lived Assets

Net Sales

Long-Lived Assets

Net Sales

Long-Lived Assets

United States

$

6,876,194

$

2,400,733

$

6,411,558

$

1,855,788

$

6,039,613

$

1,208,351

Other

3,109,609

1,195,947

3,006,045

915,493

2,843,825

1,072,849

Consolidated total

$

9,985,803

$

3,596,680

$

9,417,603

$

2,771,281

$

8,883,438

$

2,281,200

Note 19 – Employee Benefit Plans

Stock-based Compensation

Our accompanying consolidated statements of income reflect pre-tax share-based compensation expense of $

44.9

million ($

34.4

million after-tax), $

32.6

million ($

25.3

million after-tax) and $

36.8

million ($

20.6

million after-tax) for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017.

Our accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows present our stock-based compensation expense as an adjustment to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities for all periods presented. In the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows, there were

no

benefits associated with tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation as a cash inflow from financing activities for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017.

Stock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to employees and non-employee directors. We measure stock-based compensation at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and recognize the cost (net of estimated forfeitures) as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Our stock-based compensation expense is reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of income.

Stock-based awards are provided to certain employees and non-employee directors under the terms of our 2013 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, and our 2015 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan (together, the “Plans”). The Plans are administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Prior to March 2009, awards under the Plans principally included a combination of at-the-money stock options and restricted stock/units. Since March 2009, equity-based awards have been granted solely in the form of restricted stock/units, with the exception of providing stock options to employees pursuant to certain pre-existing contractual obligations. As of December 28, 2019, there were

65,242

shares authorized and

6,113

shares available to be granted under the 2013 Stock Incentive Plan and

1,892

shares authorized and


shares available to be granted under the 2015 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan.

Grants of restricted stock/units are stock-based awards granted to recipients with specified vesting provisions. In the case of restricted stock, common stock is delivered on the date of grant, subject to vesting conditions. In the case of restricted stock units, common stock is generally delivered on or following satisfaction of vesting conditions. We issue restricted stock/units that vest solely based on the recipient’s continued service over time (primarily four-year cliff vesting, except for grants made under the 2015 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan, which are primarily 12-month cliff vesting) and restricted stock/units that vest based on our achieving



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

specified performance measurements and the recipient’s continued service over time (primarily three-year cliff vesting).

With respect to time-based restricted stock/units, we estimate the fair value on the date of grant based on our closing stock price. With respect to performance-based restricted stock/units, the number of shares that ultimately vest and are received by the recipient is based upon our performance as measured against specified targets over a specified period, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Although there is no guarantee that performance targets will be achieved, we estimate the fair value of performance-based restricted stock/units based on our closing stock price at time of grant.

The Plans provide for adjustments to the performance-based restricted stock/units targets for significant events, including, without limitation, acquisitions, divestitures, new business ventures, certain capital transactions (including share repurchases), restructuring costs, if any, changes in accounting principles or in applicable laws or regulations, certain foreign exchange fluctuations, certain litigation related costs, and material changes in income tax rates. Over the performance period, the number of shares of common stock that will ultimately vest and be issued and the related compensation expense is adjusted upward or downward based upon our estimation of achieving such performance targets. The ultimate number of shares delivered to recipients and the related compensation cost recognized as an expense will be based on our actual performance metrics as defined under the Plans.

As a result of the Separation, the number of our unvested equity-based awards from previous grants to our remaining employees under our Long-term Incentive Program was increased in accordance with the provisions in the Plans. This was based on a factor of approximately

1.2633

, corresponding with a decrease in our price per share.

We record deferred income tax assets for awards that will result in future deductions on our income tax returns based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and our statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a deduction.

During the first quarter of 2017, we adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-09 which requires that

all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies resulting from the difference between the deduction for tax purposes and the stock-based compensation cost recognized for financial reporting purposes be included as a component of income tax expense as of January 1, 2017. Prior to the implementation of ASU 2016-09, excess tax benefits were recorded as a component of Additional paid-in capital and tax deficiencies were recognized either as an offset to accumulated excess tax benefits or in the income statement if there were no accumulated excess tax benefits.

Stock-based compensation grants for the three years ended December 28, 2019 consisted of restricted stock/unit grants. Certain stock-based compensation granted may require us to settle in the form of a cash payment. During the year ended December 28, 2019, we recorded a liability of $

0.6

million relating to the grant date fair value of stock-based compensation to be settled in cash. The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock-based awards granted before forfeitures was $

56.83

, $

71.38

and $

85.43

per share during the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017.

Total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards as of December 28, 2019 was $

84.8

million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately

2.0

years.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

A summary of the stock option activity under the Plans is presented below:

Years Ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Outstanding at beginning of year


$

13.63


$

29.65


$

28.59

Granted

-

-

-

-

-

-

Exercised

(


)

13.63

(


)

29.81

(


)

27.76

Forfeited

-

-

-

-

-

-

Outstanding at end of year

-

$

-


$

17.22


$

29.65

Options exercisable at end of year

-

$

-


$

17.22


$

29.65

The following table represents the intrinsic values of:

As of

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Stock options outstanding

$

-

$


$

6,256

Stock options exercisable

-


6,256

The total cash received as a result of stock option exercises for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was approximately $

0.0

million, $

3.1

million and $

5.3

million. In connection with these exercises, we did

no

t realize any tax benefits for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017. We settle employee stock option exercises with newly issued common shares.

The total intrinsic value per share of restricted stock/units that vested was $

64.31

, $

76.48

and $

83.16

during the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017. The following table summarizes the status of our non-vested restricted stock/units for the year ended December 28, 2019:

Time-Based Restricted Stock/Units

Weighted Average

Grant Date Fair

Intrinsic Value

Shares/Units

Value Per Share

Per Share

Outstanding at beginning of period

1,513

$

57.94

Granted


59.56

Vested

(


)

55.62

Forfeited

(


)

60.35

Outstanding at end of period

1,418

$

58.72

$

66.58

Performance-Based Restricted Stock/Units

Weighted Average

Grant Date Fair

Intrinsic Value

Shares/Units

Value Per Share

Per Share

Outstanding at beginning of period

1,163

$

40.26

Granted


59.72

Vested

(


)

66.41

Forfeited

(


)

61.33

Outstanding at end of period

1,459

$

61.41

$

66.58



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

401(k) Plans

We offer qualified 401(k) plans to substantially all our domestic full-time employees. As determined by our Board of Directors, matching contributions to these plans generally do not exceed


% of the participants’ contributions up to


% of their base compensation, subject to applicable legal limits. Matching contributions consist of cash and were allocated entirely to the participants’ investment elections on file, subject to a


% allocation limit to the Henry Schein Stock Fund. Forfeitures attributable to participants whose employment terminates prior to becoming fully vested are used to reduce our matching contributions and offset administrative expenses of the 401(k) plans.

Assets of the 401(k) and other defined contribution plans are held in self-directed accounts enabling participants to choose from various investment fund options. Matching contributions and administrative expenses related to these plans charged to operations during the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 amounted to $

36.8

million, $

35.8

million and $

33.5

million, respectively.

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan

We offer an unfunded, non-qualified supplemental executive retirement plan to eligible employees. This plan generally covers officers and certain highly-compensated employees after they have reached the maximum IRS allowed pre-tax 401(k) contribution limit. Our contributions to this plan are equal to the 401(k) employee-elected contribution percentage applied to base compensation for the portion of the year in which such employees are not eligible to make pre-tax contributions to the 401(k) plan. The amounts charged (credited) to operations during the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 amounted to $

2.1

million, $(

0.4

)million and $

0.6

million, respectively.

Deferred Compensation Plan

During 2011, we began to offer a deferred compensation plan to a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Company and certain subsidiaries. This plan allows for the elective deferral of base salary, bonus and/or commission compensation by eligible employees. The amounts charged (credited) to operations during the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 were approximately $

8.3

million, $(

2.3

) million and $

5.0

million, respectively.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 20 – Commitments and Contingencies

Purchase Commitments

In our health care distribution business, we sometimes enter into long-term purchase commitments to ensure the availability of products for distribution. Future minimum annual payments for inventory purchase commitments as of December 28, 2019 were:


$

403,241


208,200


110,800


-


-

Thereafter

-

Total minimum inventory purchase commitment payments

$

722,241

Employment, Consulting and Non-Compete Agreements

We have definite-lived employment, consulting and non-compete agreements that have varying base aggregate annual payments for the years 2020 through 2024 and thereafter of approximately $

16.8

million, $

6.3

million, $

4.5

million, $

0.9

million, $

0.9

million, and $1.7 million, respectively. We also have lifetime consulting agreements that provide for current compensation of $

0.4

million per year, increasing $


every fifth year with the next increase in 2022. In addition, some agreements have provisions for additional incentives and compensation.

Litigation

On

August 31, 2012

,

Archer and White Sales, Inc.

(“Archer”) filed a complaint against

Henry Schein, Inc. as well as Danaher Corporation and its subsidiaries Instrumentarium Dental, Inc., Dental Equipment, LLC, Kavo Dental Technologies, LLC and Dental Imaging Technologies Corporation (collectively, the “Danaher Defendants”)

in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Civil Action No. 2:12-CV-00572-JRG, styled as an antitrust action under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, and the Texas Free Enterprise Antitrust Act.

Archer alleges a conspiracy between Henry Schein, an unnamed company and the Danaher Defendants to terminate or limit Archer’s distribution rights.

On

August 1, 2017

,

Archer

filed an amended complaint,

adding Patterson Companies, Inc. (“Patterson”) and Benco Dental Supply Co. (“Benco”) as defendants

, and

alleging that Henry Schein, Patterson, Benco and Burkhart Dental Supply conspired to fix prices and refused to compete with each other for sales of dental equipment to dental professionals and agreed to enlist their common suppliers, the Danaher Defendants, to join a price-fixing conspiracy and boycott by reducing the distribution territory of, and eventually terminating, their price-cutting competing distributor Archer.

Archer seeks damages in an amount to be proved at trial, to be trebled with interest and costs, including attorneys’ fees, jointly and severally, as well as injunctive relief. On

October 30, 2017

,

Archer

filed a second amended complaint, to

add additional allegations that it believes support its claims. The named parties and causes of action are the same as the August 1, 2017 amended complaint.

On October 1, 2012, we filed a motion for an order: (i) compelling Archer to arbitrate its claims against us; (2) staying all proceedings pending arbitration; and (3) joining the Danaher Defendants’ motion to arbitrate and stay. On May 28, 2013, the Magistrate Judge granted the motions to arbitrate and stayed proceedings pending arbitration. On June 10, 2013, Archer moved for reconsideration before the District Court judge. On December 7, 2016, the District Court Judge granted Archer’s motion for reconsideration and lifted the stay. Defendants appealed the District Court’s order. On December 21, 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the District Court’s order denying the motions to compel arbitration. On June 25, 2018, the Supreme



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Court of the United States granted defendants’ petition for writ of certiorari. On October 29, 2018, the Supreme Court heard oral arguments. On January 8, 2019, the Supreme Court issued its published decision vacating the judgment of the Fifth Circuit and remanding the case to the Fifth Circuit for further proceedings consistent with the Supreme Court’s opinion. On April 2, 2019, the District Court stayed the proceeding in the trial court pending resolution by the Fifth Circuit. The Fifth Circuit heard oral argument on May 1, 2019 on whether the case should be arbitrated. The Fifth Circuit issued its opinion on August 14, 2019 affirming the District Court’s order denying defendants’ motions to compel arbitration. Defendants filed a petition for rehearing en banc before the Fifth Circuit. The Fifth Circuit denied that petition. On October 1, 2019, the District Court set the case for trial on February 3, 2020, which was subsequently moved to January 29, 2020. On January 24, 2020 the Supreme Court granted our motion to stay the District Court proceedings, pending the disposition of our petition for writ of certiorari, which was filed on January 31, 2020. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously against this action.

On

August 17, 2017

,

IQ Dental Supply, Inc.

(“IQ Dental”) filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, entitled IQ Dental Supply, Inc. v.

Henry Schein, Inc., Patterson Companies, Inc. and Benco Dental Supply Company

, Case No. 2:17-cv-4834.

Plaintiff alleges that it is a distributor of dental supplies and equipment, and sells dental products through an online dental distribution platform operated by SourceOne Dental (“SourceOne”).

SourceOne had previously brought an antitrust lawsuit against Henry Schein, Patterson and Benco, which Henry Schein settled in the second quarter of 2017 and which is described in our prior filings with the SEC.

IQ Dental alleges, among other things, that defendants conspired to suppress competition from IQ Dental and SourceOne for the marketing, distribution and sale of dental supplies and equipment in the United States, and that defendants unlawfully agreed with one another to boycott dentists, manufacturers and state dental associations that deal with, or considered dealing with, plaintiff and SourceOne. Plaintiff claims that this alleged conduct constitutes unreasonable restraint of trade in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, New York’s Donnelly Act and the New Jersey Antitrust Act, and also makes pendant state law claims for tortious interference with prospective business relations, civil conspiracy and aiding and abetting. Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief, compensatory, treble and punitive damages, jointly and severally, and reasonable costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees and expert fees. On December 21, 2017, the District Court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss. On January 19, 2018, IQ Dental appealed the District Court’s order. On May 10, 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part the District Court’s dismissal of the complaint, holding that IQ Dental lacks antitrust standing to challenge the alleged boycott of SourceOne and state dental associations, but that it has standing to challenge injury related to the alleged direct boycott of its business. On June 29, 2019, the Second Circuit denied IQ Dental’s petition for rehearing or rehearing en banc. On January 8, 2020, Henry Schein and IQ Dental entered into a settlement agreement, pursuant to which Henry Schein paid an amount which is not material. Henry Schein was dismissed from the case on January 16, 2020.

On

February 12, 2018

, the

United States Federal Trade Commission

(“FTC”) filed a complaint

against Benco Dental Supply Co., Henry Schein, Inc. and Patterson Companies, Inc.

The FTC alleged, among other things, that defendants violated U.S. antitrust laws by conspiring, and entering into an agreement, to refuse to provide discounts to or otherwise serve buying groups representing dental practitioners.

The FTC alleged that defendants conspired in violation of Section 5 of the FTC Act. The complaint sought equitable relief only and does not seek monetary damages. We denied the allegation that we conspired to refuse to provide discounts to or otherwise serve dental buying groups. A hearing before an administrative law judge began on October 16, 2018 and the hearing record was closed on February 21, 2019. On October 7, 2019, the administrative law judge issued his Initial Decision, finding in relevant part that the “evidence fails to prove a conspiracy involving Schein,” and dismissing the complaint as to Henry Schein. The Initial Decision became the decision of the FTC on November 7, 2019 and is not subject to further appeal.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

On

March 7, 2018

,

Joseph Salkowitz, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated

, filed a putative class action complaint for violation of the federal securities laws

against Henry Schein, Inc., Stanley M. Bergman and Steven Paladino

in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, Case No. 1:18-cv-01428. The complaint sought to certify a class consisting of all persons and entities who, subject to certain exclusions, purchased Henry Schein securities from March 7, 2013 through February 12, 2018 (the “Class Period”).

The complaint alleged, among other things, that the defendants had made materially false and misleading statements about Henry Schein’s business, operations and prospects during the Class Period, including matters relating to the issues in the In re Dental Supplies Antitrust Litigation which Henry Schein settled and which the court dismissed in June 2019, as described in our prior filings with the SEC, and the FTC action described above, thereby causing the plaintiff and members of the purported class to pay artificially inflated prices for Henry Schein securities.

The complaint sought unspecified monetary damages and a jury trial. Pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “PSLRA”), the court appointed lead plaintiff and lead counsel on June 22, 2018 and recaptioned the putative class action as In re Henry Schein, Inc. Securities Litigation, under the same case number. Lead plaintiff filed a consolidated class action complaint on September 14, 2018. The consolidated class action complaint asserts similar claims against the same defendants (plus Timothy Sullivan) on behalf of the same putative class of purchasers during the Class Period. It alleges that Henry Schein’s stock price was inflated during that period because Henry Schein had misleadingly portrayed its dental-distribution business “as successfully producing excellent profits while operating in a highly competitive environment” even though, “in reality, [Henry Schein] had engaged for years in collusive and anticompetitive practices in order to maintain Schein’s margins, profits, and market share.” The complaint alleges that the stock price started to fall from August 8, 2017, when the company announced below-expected financial performance that allegedly “revealed that Schein’s poor results were a product of abandoning prior attempts to inflate sales volume and margins through anticompetitive collusion,” through February 13, 2018, after the FTC filed a complaint against Benco, Henry Schein and Patterson alleging that they violated U.S. antitrust laws. The complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. On September 27, 2019, the court issued a decision partially granting and partially denying defendants’ motion to dismiss the securities action. The court dismissed all claims against Messrs. Bergman and Paladino as well as the Section 10(b) claim against Henry Schein to the extent that that claim relied on the Company’s financial results and margins to allege a material misstatement or omission. The court also dismissed the Section 10(b) claim against Henry Schein to the extent that it relied on the Company’s August 8, 2017 disclosure to allege loss causation. The court otherwise denied the motion as to Henry Schein and Mr. Sullivan. Henry Schein and Mr. Sullivan moved for partial reconsideration of the court’s decision. Pursuant to all parties’ request, the court temporarily took the motion off the calendar after it was fully briefed. The parties have agreed to a resolution of this matter, subject to various conditions, including the drafting and execution of a definitive settlement agreement and court approval. The contemplated settlement, if finally approved, would have no earnings impact to the Company as all payments would be covered by insurance. Henry Schein had previously received a request under 8 Del. C. § 220 to inspect corporate books and records relating to the issues raised in the securities class action and the antitrust matters discussed above.

On

May 3, 2018

, a purported class action complaint,

Marion Diagnostic Center, LLC, et al.

v.

Becton, Dickinson, and Co., et al., Case No. 3:18-cv-010509, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois against Becton, Dickinson, and Co. (“Becton”); Premier, Inc. (“Premier”), Vizient, Inc. (“Vizient”), Cardinal Health, Inc. (“Cardinal”), Owens & Minor Inc. (“O&M”), Henry Schein, Inc., and Unnamed Becton Distributor Co-Conspirators.

The complaint alleges that the defendants entered into a vertical conspiracy to force health care providers into long-term exclusionary contracts that restrain trade in the nationwide markets for conventional and safety syringes and safety IV catheters and inflate the prices of certain Becton products to above-competitive levels.

The named plaintiffs seek to represent three separate classes consisting of all health care providers that purchased (i) Becton’s conventional syringes, (ii) Becton’s safety syringes, or (iii) Becton’s safety catheters directly from Becton, Premier, Vizient, Cardinal, O&M or Henry Schein on or after May 3, 2014. The complaint asserts a single count under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, and seeks equitable relief, treble damages, reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs and expenses, and pre-judgment and post-judgment interest. On June 15, 2018, an amended



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

complaint was filed asserting the same allegations against the same parties and adding McKesson Medical-Surgical, Inc. as a defendant. On November 30, 2018, the District Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and entered a final judgment, dismissing plaintiffs’ complaint with prejudice. On December 27, 2018, plaintiffs appealed the District Court’s decision to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The parties argued the appeal on September 27, 2019 and are currently awaiting the Seventh Circuit’s ruling.

On

May 29, 2018

, an amended complaint was filed in the MultiDistrict Litigation (“MDL”) proceeding In Re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804; Case No. 17-md-2804) in an action entitled

The County of Summit, Ohio et al.

v. Purdue Pharma, L.P., et al., Civil Action No. 1:18-op-45090-DAP (“County of Summit Action”), in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, adding

Henry Schein, Inc., Henry Schein Medical Systems, Inc. and others as defendants.

Summit County alleges that manufacturers of prescription opioid drugs engaged in a false advertising campaign to expand the market for such drugs and their own market share and that the entities in the supply chain (including Henry Schein, Inc. and Henry Schein Medical Systems, Inc.) reaped financial rewards by refusing or otherwise failing to monitor appropriately and restrict the improper distribution of those drugs. On October 29, 2019, the Company was dismissed with prejudice from this lawsuit. Henry Schein, working with Summit County, donated $


million to a foundation dedicated to making grants to programs within Summit County focused on (i) educating the community on alternative pain management treatment techniques and/or avoiding addiction; ‎(ii) supporting research into alternative pain management techniques and protocols; (iii) enabling professionals to obtain the necessary certification for a Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT) Waiver; and (iv) advancing programs and services to Summit County to deliver results and solutions to the opiate and addiction crises. Henry Schein paid $

250,000

of Summit County’s expenses.

In addition to the County of Summit Action,

Henry Schein and/or one or more of its affiliated companies

have currently been named as a defendant in multiple lawsuits (currently less than one-hundred and twenty-five (


)), which

allege claims similar to those alleged in the County of Summit Action.

At this time, the only case set for trial is the action filed by Tuscon Medical Center, which is currently scheduled for a 30-day trial beginning on March 16, 2021. These actions consist of some that have been consolidated within the MDL and are currently abated for discovery purposes, and others which remain pending in state courts and are proceeding independently and outside of the MDL. Of Henry Schein’s 2018 revenue of $

9.4

billion from continuing operations, sales of opioids represented less than

one-tenth of 1 percent

. Opioids represent a negligible part of our business. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously against these actions.

On

January 29, 2019

, a purported class action complaint was filed by

R. Lawrence Hatchett, M.D.

against

Henry Schein, Inc., Patterson Co., Inc., Benco Dental Supply Co., and unnamed co-conspirators

in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges that members of the proposed class suffered antitrust injury due to an unlawful boycott, price-fixing or otherwise anticompetitive conspiracy among Henry Schein, Patterson and Benco.

The complaint alleges that the alleged conspiracy overcharged Illinois dental practices, orthodontic practices and dental laboratories on their purchase of dental supplies, which in turn passed on some or all of such overcharges to members of the class.

Subject to certain exclusions, the complaint defines the class as “all persons residing in Illinois purchasing and/or reimbursing for dental care provided by independent Illinois dental practices purchasing dental supplies from the defendants, or purchasing from buying groups purchasing these supplies from the defendants, on or after January 29, 2015.” The complaint alleges violations of the Illinois Antitrust Act, 740 Ill. Comp. Stat. §§ 10/3(2), 10/7(2), and seeks a permanent injunction, actual damages to be determined at trial, trebled, reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs, and pre- and post-judgment interest. On February 13, 2020, the court granted our motion to dismiss for lack of standing, and dismissed the action with prejudice.

On

September 30, 2019

,

City of Hollywood Police Officers Retirement System, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated

, filed a putative class action complaint for violation of the federal securities laws against

Henry Schein, Inc., Covetrus, Inc., and Benjamin Shaw and Christine Komola

(Covetrus’s then Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively) in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York,



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Case No. 2:19-cv-05530-FB-RLM. The complaint seeks to certify a class consisting of all persons and entities who, subject to certain exclusions, purchased or otherwise acquired Covetrus common stock from February 8, 2019 through August 12, 2019. The case relates to the Animal Health Spin-off and Merger of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business with Vets First Choice in February 2019

. The complaint alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5 and asserts that defendants’ statements in the offering documents and after the transaction were materially false and misleading because they purportedly overstated Covetrus’s capabilities as to inventory management and supply-chain services, understated the costs of integrating the Henry Schein Animal Health Business and Vets First Choice, understated Covetrus’s separation costs from Henry Schein, and understated the impact on earnings from online competition and alternative distribution channels and from the loss of an allegedly large customer in North America just before the Separation and Merger.

The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and a jury trial. Pursuant to the provisions of the PSLRA, the court appointed lead plaintiff and lead counsel on December 23, 2019. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously against this action.

On

November 15, 2019

,

Frank Finazzo

filed a putative shareholder derivative action on behalf of Henry Schein, Inc. against various present and former directors and officers of Henry Schein in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, Case No. 1:19-cv-6485-LDH-JO.

The named defendants in the action are Stanley M. Bergman, Steven Paladino, Timothy J. Sullivan, Barry J. Alperin, Lawrence S. Bacow, Gerald A. Benjamin, James P. Breslawski, Paul Brons, Shira Goodman, Joseph L. Herring, Donald J. Kabat, Kurt Kuehn, Philip A. Laskawy, Anne H. Margulies, Karyn Mashima, Norman S. Matthews, Mark E. Mlotek, Carol Raphael, E. Dianne Rekow, Bradley T. Sheares, and Louis W. Sullivan, with Henry Schein named as a nominal defendant.

The Complaint asserts claims under the federal securities laws and state law relating to the allegations in the antitrust actions, the

In re Henry Schein, Inc. Securities Litigation

, and the

City of Hollywood

securities class action described above.

The complaint seeks declaratory, injunctive, and monetary relief on behalf of Henry Schein. On January 6, 2020, counsel who filed the

Finazzo

case filed another, virtually identical putative shareholder derivative action on behalf of Henry Schein against the same defendants, asserting the same claims and seeking the same relief. That case, captioned

Mark Sloan v. Stanley M. Bergman, et al.

, is also pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, Case No. 1:20-cv-0076. On January 24, 2020, the court consolidated the

Finazzo

and

Sloan

cases under the new caption

In re Henry Schein, Inc. Derivative Litigation,

No. 1:19-cv-06485-LDH-JO, and appointed the counsel in these cases as co-lead counsel for the consolidated action. The parties have agreed to a resolution of this matter subject to various conditions, including the drafting and execution of a definitive settlement agreement and court approval. The contemplated settlement, if finally approved, would involve the adoption of certain procedures but would not involve the payment of any money except a fee to the plaintiffs’ attorneys that is immaterial.

From time to time, we may become a party to other legal proceedings, including, without limitation, product liability claims, employment matters, commercial disputes, governmental inquiries and investigations (which may in some cases involve our entering into settlement arrangements or consent decrees), and other matters arising out of the ordinary course of our business. While the results of any legal proceeding cannot be predicted with certainty, in our opinion none of these other pending matters are currently anticipated to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

As of December 28, 2019, we had accrued our best estimate of potential losses relating to claims that were probable to result in liability and for which we were able to reasonably estimate a loss. This accrued amount, as well as related expenses, was not material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our method for determining estimated losses considers currently available facts, presently enacted laws and regulations and other factors, including probable recoveries from third parties.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 21 – Quarterly Information (Unaudited)

The following tables present certain quarterly financial data:

Quarters ended

March 30,

June 29,

September 28,

December 28,





Net sales

$

2,360,268

$

2,447,827

$

2,508,767

$

2,668,941

Gross profit

751,690

767,431

761,167

810,598

Restructuring costs (credits) (1)

4,641

11,925

(


)

(

1,059

)

Operating income

172,441

162,288

187,198

196,334

Net gain on sale of equity investments (2)

-

-

-

186,769

Net income from continuing operations

123,640

121,417

143,212

337,192

Amounts attributable to

Henry Schein, Inc. from continuing operations:

Net income

118,413

116,753

134,916

330,609

Earnings per share attributable to

Henry Schein, Inc. from continuing operations:

Basic

$

0.79

$

0.79

$

0.92

$

2.27

Diluted

0.78

0.78

0.91

2.25

Quarters ended

March 31,

June 30,

September 29,

December 29,





Net sales

$

2,273,450

$

2,316,032

$

2,355,565

$

2,472,556

Gross profit

719,129

718,328

722,359

750,931

Litigation settlements

-

-

38,488

-

Restructuring costs (1)

2,675

8,497

8,551

34,644

Operating income

162,240

157,108

123,269

158,002

Net income from continuing operations

114,717

114,591

96,247

124,886

Amounts attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.

from continuing operations:

Net income

111,534

110,636

90,770

117,777

Earnings per share attributable to Henry Schein, Inc.

from continuing operations:

Basic

$

0.73

$

0.72

$

0.60

$

0.78

Diluted

0.72

0.72

0.59

0.77

(1)

See Note 12 - "Plans of Restructuring" for details of the restructuring costs incurred during our 2019 and 2018 fiscal years.

(2)

See Note 11 - "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures" for details of the net gain on sale of equity investments.



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

Note 22 – Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Cash paid for interest and income taxes was:

Years ended

December 28,

December 29,

December 30,




Interest

$

54,685

$

69,371

$

46,985

Income taxes

177,277

236,479

214,135

There was approximately $

0.0

million, $

0.0

million and $

0.3

million of debt assumed as a part of the acquisitions for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively.

For the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, we had $(

4.9

) million, $

1.0

million and $(

1.5

) million of non-cash net unrealized gains (losses) related to foreign currency hedging activities, respectively. During the year ended December 30, 2017, as part of business acquisitions, we increased our ownership interests in subsidiaries through non-cash transactions of $

16.8

million.

During the third quarter of 2018, we formed Henry Schein One, LLC with Internet Brands through a non-cash transaction resulting in approximately $

390.3

million of noncontrolling interest representing Internet Brands’ current


% minority interest and $

160.6

million of deferred additional ownership interests of Internet Brands in Henry Schein One, representing up to an additional

9.2

% ownership interests at December 28, 2019, a portion of which is contingent upon the achievement of certain operating targets (See Note 11).

Note 23 – Related Party Transactions

In connection with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off during our fiscal year 2019, we entered into a transition services agreement with Covetrus under which we have agreed to provide certain transition services for up to twenty-four months in areas such as information technology, finance and accounting, human resources, supply chain, and real estate and facility services.

During 2019, we recorded approximately $

17.5

million of fees for these services. In connection with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off (see Note 2 for additional details), we entered into a transition services agreement with Covetrus, pursuant to which Covetrus purchases certain products from us. During the year ended December 28, 2019, net sales to Covetrus were approximately $

81.3

million. Sales to Covetrus under the transition services agreement are expected to continue through August 2020. At December 28, 2019 we had $

4.5

million of receivables due from Covetrus and $

0.1

million payable to Covetrus under this transition services agreement.

In connection with the formation of Henry Schein One, LLC, our joint venture with Internet Brands, which was formed on July 1, 2018, we entered into a ten-year royalty agreement with Internet Brands whereby we will pay Internet Brands approximately $

31.0

million annually for the use of their intellectual property.

During 2019 and 2018, we recorded $


million and $

15.5

million, respectively in connection with costs related to this royalty agreement. As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, Henry Schein One, LLC had a net receivable balance due from Internet Brands of $

9.4

million and $

2.4

million, respectively, comprised of amounts related to the royalty agreement and other management fees.

During our normal course of business, we have interests in entities that we account for under the equity accounting method.

During our fiscal years ended 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded net sales of $

87.7

million, $

27.0

million, and $

23.4

million, respectively, to such entities. During our fiscal years ended 2019, 2018 and 2017, we purchased $

18.1

million, $

10.8

million, and $

8.8

million, respectively, from such entities. At December 28, 2019 and



HENRY SCHEIN, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except per share data)

December 29, 2018, we had in aggregate $

60.7

million and $

61.4

million, due from our equity affiliates, and $

5.3

million and $

1.0

million due to our equity affiliates, respectively.



ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this annual report as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Based on this evaluation, our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 28, 2019 to ensure that all material information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to them as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and that all such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The combination of acquisitions, continued acquisition integrations and systems implementations undertaken during the quarter and carried over from prior quarters, when considered in the aggregate, represents a material change in our internal control over financial reporting.

During the quarter ended

December 28, 2019

, post-acquisition integration related activities continued for our global dental and North American technology and medical businesses acquired during prior quarters, representing aggregate annual revenues of approximately $539

million. These acquisitions, the majority of which utilize separate information and financial accounting systems, have been included in our consolidated financial statements since their respective dates of acquisition.

Also, during the quarter ended

December 28, 2019

, post-implementation system improvement activities continued for a new equipment system implemented during prior quarters for our U.S. dental business representing approximate aggregate annual revenues of $912

million, as well as an upgrade of an existing ERP system at a dental business in North America having approximate aggregate annual revenues of $58 million.

All continued acquisitions integrations and systems implementations involved necessary and appropriate change-management controls that are considered in our annual assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013), updated and reissued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations, or the COSO Framework. Based on our evaluation under the COSO Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at a reasonable assurance level as of December 28, 2019.



The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2019 has been independently audited by BDO USA, LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, and their attestation is included herein.

Limitations of the Effectiveness of Internal Control

A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the internal control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations of any internal control system, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, if any, within a company have been detected.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Stockholders and Board of Directors

Henry Schein, Inc.

Melville, NY

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited Henry Schein, Inc.’s (the “Company’s”) internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2019, based on criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the “COSO criteria”). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2019, based on the COSO criteria

.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2019, and the related notes and schedule and our report dated February 20, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying “Item 9A, Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting”. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that



controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ BDO USA, LLP

New York, NY

February 20, 2020



ITEM 9B. Other Information

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Information required by this item regarding our directors and executive officers and our corporate governance is hereby incorporated by reference to the Section entitled “Election of Directors,” with respect to directors, and the first paragraph of the Section entitled “Corporate Governance - Board of Directors Meetings and Committees - Audit Committee,” with respect to corporate governance, in each case in our definitive 2020 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A and to the Section entitled “Information about our Executive Officers” in Part I of this report, with respect to executive officers.

There have been no changes to the procedures by which stockholders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors since our last disclosure of such procedures, which appeared in our definitive 2019 Proxy Statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on April 9, 2019.

Information required by this item concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is hereby incorporated by reference to the Section entitled “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports” in our definitive 2020 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, to the extent responsive disclosure is required.

We have adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller. We make available free of charge through our Internet website,

www.henryschein.com

, under the “About Henry Schein--Corporate Governance” caption, our Code of Ethics. We intend to disclose on our Web site any amendment to, or waiver of, a provision of the Code of Ethics.

ITEM 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the Sections entitled “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Compensation Committee Report” (which information shall be deemed furnished in this Annual Report on Form 10-K), “Executive and Director Compensation” and “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in our definitive 2020 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.



ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

We maintain several stock incentive plans for the benefit of certain officers, directors and employees. All active plans have been approved by our stockholders. Descriptions of these plans appear in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes information relating to these plans as of December 28, 2019:

Weighted- Average

Number of Common

Exercise Price of

Shares Available for

Plan Category

Outstanding Options

Future Issuances

Plans Approved by Stockholders

$

-

6,407,767

Plans Not Approved by Stockholders

-

-

Total

$

-

6,407,767

The other information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the Section entitled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in our definitive 2020 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.

ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the Section entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Corporate Governance – Board of Directors Meetings and Committees – Independent Directors” in our definitive 2020 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.

ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the Section entitled “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees and Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures” in our definitive 2020 Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.

PART IV

ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

List of Documents Filed as a Part of This Report:



(b) Exhibits

2.1

Contribution and Distribution Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2018, by and among us, HS Spinco, Inc., Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. and Shareholder Representative Services LLC. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 23, 2018 (film no. 18767875).)*

2.2

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 20, 2018, by and among us, HS Spinco, Inc, HS Merger Sub, Inc., Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. and Shareholder Representative Services LLC. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 23, 2018 (film no. 18767875).)*

2.3

Letter Agreement, Amendment No. 1 to Contribution and Distribution Agreement and Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 14, 2018, by and among us, HS Spinco, Inc., HS Merger Sub, Inc., Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. and Shareholder Representative Services LLC.( Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 filed on February 20, 2019.)

2.4

Letter Agreement and Amendment No. 2 to Contribution and Distribution Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2018, by and among us, HS Spinco, Inc., Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. and Shareholder Representative Services LLC. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.4 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 filed on February 20, 2019.)

2.5

Letter Agreement and Amendment No. 3 to Contribution and Distribution Agreement and Amendment No. 2 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 25, 2018, by and among us, HS Spinco, Inc., HS Merger Sub, Inc., Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. and Shareholder Representative Services LLC.(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.5 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 filed on February 20, 2019.)

2.6

Letter Agreement and Amendment No. 4 to Contribution and Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 15, 2019, by and among us, HS Spinco, Inc., Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. and Shareholder Representative Services LLC.(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.6 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 filed on February 20, 2019.)

3.1

Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Henry Schein, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 1, 2018.)

3.2

Second Amended and Restated By-Laws of Henry Schein, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 1, 2018.)

4.1

Second Amended and Restated Multicurrency Master Note Purchase Agreement dated as of June 29, 2018, by and among us, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, MetLife Investment Advisors Company, LLC and each MetLife affiliate which becomes party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 2, 2018.)



4.2

Second Amended and Restated Master Note Facility dated as of June 29, 2018, by and among us, NYL Investors LLC and each New York Life affiliate which becomes party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 2, 2018.)

4.3

Second Amended and Restated Multicurrency Private Shelf Agreement dated as of June 29, 2018, by and among us, PGIM, Inc. and each Prudential affiliate which becomes party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 2, 2018.)

4.4

Description of Securities.+

10.1

Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 16, 2013.)**

10.2

Form of 2015 Restricted Stock Agreement for time-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2015 filed on May 4, 2015.)**

10.3

Form of 2015 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for time-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2015 filed on May 4, 2015.)**

10.


Form of 2016 Restricted Stock Agreement for time-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 26, 2016 filed on May 3, 2016.)**

10.


Form of 2016 Restricted Stock Agreement for performance-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 26, 2016 filed on May 3, 2016.)**

10.6

Form of 2016 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for time-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 26, 2016 filed on May 3, 2016.)**

10.7

Form of 2016 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for performance-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 26, 2016 filed on May 3, 2016.)**



10.8

Form of 2017 Restricted Stock Agreement for performance-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2017 filed on May 9, 2017.)**

10.9

Form of 2017 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for time-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2017 filed on May 9, 2017.)**

10.1


Form of 2017 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for performance-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2017 filed on May 9, 2017.)**

10.1


Form of 2018 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for time-based restricted stock unit awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 filed on May 8, 2018.)**

10.1


Form of 2018 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for performance-based restricted stock unit awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 filed on May 8, 2018.)**

10.1


Form of 2019 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for time-based restricted stock unit awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019 filed on May 7, 2019.)**

10.


Form of 2019 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for performance-based restricted stock unit awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019 filed on May 7, 2019.)**

10.


Henry Schein, Inc. 2015 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 27, 2015 filed on July 29, 2015.)**

10.


Form of 2018 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for time-based restricted stock unit awards pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2015 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective as of June 22, 2015). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 filed on May 8, 2018.)**



10.17

Henry Schein, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2014. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2013 filed on November 5, 2013.)**

10.18

Amendment Number One to the Henry Schein, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2014.**+

10.19

2001 Henry Schein, Inc. Section 162(m) Cash Bonus Plan effective as of June 6, 2001. (Incorporated by reference to Appendix B to our definitive 2001 Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 30, 2001.)**

10.20

Amendment Number One to the 2001 Henry Schein, Inc. Section 162(m) Cash Bonus Plan, effective as of May 24, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to our definitive 2005 Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, filed on April 22, 2005.)**

10.21

Amendment Number Two to the Henry Schein, Inc. Section 162(m) Cash Bonus Plan, effective as of January 1, 2007. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2008 filed on February 24, 2009.)**

10.22

Amendment Number Three to the Henry Schein, Inc. Section 162(m) Cash Bonus Plan effective as of December 31, 2009. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 27, 2009 filed on August 4, 2009.)**

10.2


Amendment Number Four to the Henry Schein, Inc. Section 162(m) Cash Bonus Plan, effective as of May 14, 2013. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 16, 2013.)**

10.24

Amendment Number Five to the Henry Schein, Inc. Section 162(m) Cash Bonus Plan, dated May 31, 2017. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 1, 2017.)**

10.25

Henry Schein, Inc. 2004 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, effective as of May 25, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit D to our definitive 2004 Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, filed on April 27, 2004.)**

10.26

Henry Schein, Inc. Non-Employee Director Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2008 filed on February 24, 2009.)**

10.27

Henry Schein, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2010 filed on February 22, 2011.)**

10.28

Amendment to the Henry Schein, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 filed on February 15, 2012.)**



10.29

Amendment Number Two to the Henry Schein, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013 filed on February 11, 2014.)**

10.3


Amendment Number Three to the Henry Schein, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013 filed on February 11, 2014.)**

10.3


Amendment Number Four to the Henry Schein, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.46 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 filed on February 21, 2017.)**

10.32

Amendment Number Five to the Henry Schein, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan.**+

10.3


Henry Schein Management Team Performance Incentive Plan and Plan Summary, effective as of January 1, 2014. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 29, 2014 filed on May 6, 2014.)**

10.34

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December 31, 2016, by and between us and Stanley M. Bergman. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 7, 2016.)**

10.35

Form of Performance-Based RSU Award Agreement for Stanley M. Bergman pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 7, 2016.)**

10.36

Form of Time-Based RSU Award Agreement for Stanley M. Bergman pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 7, 2016.)**

10.37

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of August 8, 2019, by and between Henry Schein, Inc. and Stanley M. Bergman. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 9, 2019.)**

10.38

Form of Performance-Based RSU Award Agreement for Stanley M. Bergman Pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as Amended and Restated as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 9, 2019.)**

10.39

Form of Time-Based RSU Award Agreement for Stanley M. Bergman Pursuant to the Henry Schein, Inc. 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (as Amended and Restated as of May 14, 2013). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 9, 2019.)**



10.40

Form of Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement dated December 12, 2008 between us and certain executive officers who are a party thereto (Gerald Benjamin, James Breslawski, Michael S. Ettinger, Mark Mlotek and Steven Paladino, respectively). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2008 filed on February 24, 2009.)**

10.4


Form of Amendment to Amended and Restated Change in Control Agreement effective January 1, 2012 between us and certain executive officers who are a party thereto (Gerald Benjamin, James Breslawski, Michael S. Ettinger, Mark Mlotek and Steven Paladino, respectively). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 20, 2012.)**

10.42

Form of Change in Control Agreement between us and certain executive officers who are a party thereto (Walter Siegel). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019 filed on May 7, 2019.)

**

10.4


Credit Agreement, dated as of April 18, 2017, among the Company, the several lenders parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner, U.S. Bank National Association, as syndication agent, joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner, together with the exhibits and schedules thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 19, 2017.)

10.


First Amendment, dated as of June 29, 2018, among us, the several lenders parties thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, lead arranger and lead bookrunner. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 2, 2018.)

10.45

Promissory Note in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. dated as of May 21, 2018. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 21, 2018.)

10.46

Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, as servicer, HSFR, Inc., as seller, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as agent and the various purchaser groups from time to time party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 19, 2013.)

10.47

Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 22, 2014 to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, as servicer, HSFR, Inc., as seller, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, LTD., New York Branch, as agent and the various purchaser groups from time to time party thereto, as amended. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 26, 2014.)

10.48

Amendment No. 2 dated as of April 17, 2015 to Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, as performance guarantor, HSFR, Inc., as seller, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as agent and the various purchaser groups party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2016 filed on August 4, 2016.)



10.49

Amendment No. 3 dated as of June 1, 2016 to Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, as performance guarantor, HSFR, Inc., as seller, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as agent and the various purchaser groups party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2016 filed on August 4, 2016.)

10.50

Amendment No. 4 dated as of July 6, 2017 to Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, as performance guarantor, HSFR, Inc., as seller, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as agent and the various purchaser groups party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2017 filed on November 6, 2017.)

10.5


Amendment No. 5 dated as of May 13, 2019 to Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, as performance guarantor, HSFR, Inc., as seller, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as agent and the various purchaser groups party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019 filed on August 6, 2019.)

10.5


Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and HSFR, Inc., as buyer. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 19, 2013.)

10.5


Omnibus Amendment No. 1, dated July 22, 2013, to Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, as servicer, HSFR, Inc., as seller, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as agent, and the various purchaser groups from time to time party thereto and Receivables Sales Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and HSFR, Inc., as buyer. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2013 filed on August 6, 2013.)

10.54

Omnibus Amendment No. 2, dated April 21, 2014, to Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of April 17, 2013, as amended, by and among us, as servicer, HSFR, Inc., as seller, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as agent, and the various purchaser groups from time to time party thereto and Receivables Sales Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2013, by and among us, certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and HSFR, Inc., as buyer. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 29, 2014 filed on May 6, 2014.)

10.55

Form of Indemnification Agreement between us and certain directors and executive officers who are a party thereto (Barry J. Alperin, Ph.D., Paul Brons, Shira Goodman, Joseph L. Herring, Kurt P. Kuehn, Philip A. Laskawy, Anne H. Margulies, Carol Raphael, E. Dianne Rekow, DDS, Ph.D., Bradley T. Sheares, Ph.D., Gerald A. Benjamin, Stanley M. Bergman, James P. Breslawski, Michael S. Ettinger, Mark E. Mlotek, Steven Paladino, and Walter Siegel, respectively). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 26, 2015 filed on November 4, 2015.)**

21.1

List of our Subsidiaries.+



23.1

Consent of BDO USA, LLP.+

31.1

Certification of our Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.+

31.2

Certification of our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.+

32.1

Certification of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.+

_________

+ Filed or furnished herewith.

* Schedules and exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. The Company hereby agrees to furnish supplementally a copy of any of the omitted schedules and exhibits upon request by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

** Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.

ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary

None.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature

Capacity

Date

/s/ STANLEY M. BERGMAN

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer

February 20, 2020

Stanley M. Bergman

and Director (principal executive officer)

/s/ STEVEN PALADINO

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial

February 20, 2020

Steven Paladino

Officer and Director (principal financial and

accounting officer)

/s/ JAMES P. BRESLAWSKI

Vice Chairman, Director

February 20, 2020

James P. Breslawski

/s/ GERALD A. BENJAMIN

Director

February 20, 2020

Gerald A. Benjamin

/s/ MARK E. MLOTEK

Director

February 20, 2020

Mark E. Mlotek

/s/ BARRY J. ALPERIN

Director

February 20, 2020

Barry J. Alperin

/s/ PAUL BRONS

Director

February 20, 2020

Paul Brons

/s/ SHIRA GOODMAN

Director

February 20, 2020

Shira Goodman

/s/ JOSEPH L. HERRING

Director

February 20, 2020

Joseph L. Herring

/s/ KURT P. KUEHN

Director

February 20, 2020

Kurt P. Kuehn

/s/ PHILIP A. LASKAWY

Director

February 20, 2020

Philip A. Laskawy

/s/ ANNE H. MARGULIES

Director

February 20, 2020

Anne H. Margulies

/s/ CAROL RAPHAEL

Director

February 20, 2020

Carol Raphael

/s/ E. DIANNE REKOW

Director

February 20, 2020

E. Dianne Rekow, DDS, Ph.D.

/s/ BRADLEY T. SHEARES, PH. D.

Director

February 20, 2020

Bradley T. Sheares, Ph. D.



Schedule II

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(in thousands)

Additions (Reductions)

Charged

Balance at

Charged to

(credited) to

Balance at

beginning of

statement of

other

end of

Description

period

income (1)

accounts (2)

Deductions (3)

period

Year ended December 28, 2019:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

and other

$

53,121

$

12,612

$


$

(

5,865

)

$

60,002

Year ended December 29, 2018:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

and other

$

46,261

$

14,384

$

(

1,158

)

$

(

6,366

)

$

53,121

Year ended December 30, 2017:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

and other

$

33,150

$

7,915

$

11,341

$

(

6,145

)

$

46,261

(1)

Represents amounts charged to bad debt expense.

(2)

Amounts charged (credited) to other accounts primarily relate to provision for late fees and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.

(3)

Deductions primarily consist of fully reserved accounts receivable that have been written off.

161