Item 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a worldwide developer and publisher of online, personal computer ("PC"), video game console,
handheld, mobile and tablet games. The terms "Activision Blizzard," the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We
currently offer games that operate on the Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") Xbox One ("Xbox One") and Xbox 360 ("Xbox 360"), Nintendo Co. Ltd. ("Nintendo") Wii U ("Wii
U") and Wii ("Wii"), and Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. ("Sony") PlayStation 4 ("PS4") and PlayStation 3 ("PS3") console systems (Xbox One, Wii U, and PS4 are collectively referred to as
"next-generation"; Xbox 360, Wii, and PS3 are collectively referred to as "prior-generation"); the PC; the Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Dual Screen and Sony PlayStation Vita handheld game systems;
and mobile and tablet devices.

Activision—Through Activision Publishing, Inc. ("Activision"), we are a leading
international developer and publisher of interactive software products and content. Activision develops, markets and sells products through retail channels or digital downloads, which are principally
based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Activision delivers content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults, and from core
gamers to mass-market consumers to "value" buyers seeking budget-priced software, in a variety of geographies. Activision continues to focus its efforts in the areas we believe have the most
opportunity for growth and higher profitability, while reducing investments in areas we believe have less profit potential and limited growth opportunities. To that end, investments are focused on
proven intellectual properties to









develop
deep, high-quality content that offers engaging online gaming experiences. One of Activision's leading franchises is Call of Duty®, which launched in 2003, and has been the
best-selling Western interactive franchises since its launch, with approximately $11 billion of life-to-date revenues. In 2014, Activision released the latest installment in the franchise,Call of Duty: Advanced
Warfare, which, in the fourth quarter of 2014, according to The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and Activision Blizzard internal
estimates, was the #1 best-selling video game release worldwide and #1 best-selling game on the next-generation PS4 and Xbox One console platforms. Activision is currently developing sequels and
additional content to build on the continued success of the Call of Duty franchise. Further, in January 2015, we announced the public open beta in China ofCall of Duty
Online, a free-to-play game in which players are able to purchase or rent in-game items.

Another
leading franchise for Activision is Skylanders®, which launched in 2011 with the release ofSkylanders Spyro's
Adventure. Games in the Skylanders franchise combine the use of physical toys with digital interactive experiences to deliver innovative gameplay to our audience. In October
2014, we releasedSkylanders Trap Team, which allows players to trap villains from the game into physical traps.

While
focusing on proven intellectual properties is one of Activision's priorities, we also continue to make strategic investments in developing new intellectual properties that we
believe have the potential for long-term growth and success. For example, on September 9, 2014, we releasedDestiny® and on
December 9, 2014, we releasedThe Dark Below, the first expansion pack forDestiny.Destinyis the
result of our long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, and we expect to release additional content forDestinyin 2015.

Blizzard

—Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. ("Blizzard") is a development studio and publisher best known as the creator of the multiple award
winning World of Warcraft®, Diablo

®

, StarCraft

®

, and
Hearthstone®: Heroes of Warcraft™ franchises. Blizzard is the leading publisher of online subscription-based games in the massively multiplayer online role-playing game
("MMORPG") category. In addition, Blizzard
maintains a proprietary online game-related service, Battle.net®, which facilitates the creation of user generated content, digital distribution and online social connectivity across all
Blizzard games. Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid subscription cards; value-added services such as
realm transfers, faction changes, character boosts, and other character customizations within the World of Warcraft gameplay; retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC
products; purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile and tablet platforms; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute World of Warcraft, Diablo,
StarCraft, and Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft products. Blizzard has released five expansion packs to the epic World of Warcraft franchise since 2004, with the newest release,

World of Warcraft: Warlords of
Draenor

™, having been released in November 2014. Blizzard also released the first expansion pack to the
action role-playing game

Diablo III

on the PC,

Diablo III: Reaper of Souls

™, in March 2014
and on certain consoles,

Diablo III: Reaper of Souls—Ultimate Evil Edition™

, in August 2014. In addition, Blizzard released

Hearthstone: Heroes of
Warcraft

, a free-to-play digital collectible card game, on the PC in March 2014, on the iPad in April 2014, and on Android
tablets in December 2014. In July 2014, Blizzard released

Curse of Naxxramas™

:

A Hearthstone
Adventure

and in December 2014, Blizzard released

Goblins vs Gnomes™,

the first expansion for

Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft.

In January 2015, Blizzard began the closed beta test for

Heroes of the
Storm™

, a free-to-play online team brawler featuring iconic heroes from Blizzard games.

Revenues
associated with the Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, and Skylanders franchises combined accounted for 67%, 80%, and 72% of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.

Distribution—The Activision Blizzard Distribution ("Distribution") business consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and
sales distribution services to third-party publishers









of
interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.

The Business Combination and Share Repurchase

Activision, Inc. was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992.

On
July 9, 2008, a business combination (the "Business Combination") by and among Activision, Inc., Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Activision, Inc., Vivendi S.A. ("Vivendi"), VGAC LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi , and Vivendi Games, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGAC LLC, was
consummated. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision, Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. and Vivendi became a majority shareholder of Activision
Blizzard. Activision Blizzard is a public company traded on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol "ATVI."

On
October 11, 2013, we repurchased approximately 429 million shares of our common stock, pursuant to a stock purchase agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement") we entered
into on July 25, 2013, with Vivendi and ASAC II LP ("ASAC"), an exempted limited partnership established under the laws of the Cayman Islands, acting by its general partner, ASAC
II LLC (together with ASAC, the "ASAC Entities"). Pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, we acquired all of the capital stock of Amber Holding Subsidiary Co., a Delaware
corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi ("New VH"), which was the direct owner of approximately 429 million shares of our common stock, for a cash payment of $5.83 billion, or
$13.60 per share, before taking into account the benefit to the Company of certain tax attributes of New VH assumed in the transaction (collectively, the "Purchase Transaction"). The repurchased
shares were recorded in "Treasury Stock" in our consolidated balance sheet.

Immediately
following the completion of the Purchase Transaction, ASAC purchased from Vivendi 172 million shares of Activision Blizzard common stock, pursuant to the Stock
Purchase Agreement, for a cash payment of $2.34 billion, or $13.60 per share (the "Private Sale"). Robert A. Kotick, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, Chairman of our Board of
Directors, are affiliates of ASAC II LLC.

On
May 28, 2014, Vivendi sold approximately 41 million shares, or approximately 50% of its then-current holdings, of our common stock in a registered public offering.
Vivendi received proceeds of approximately $850 million from that sale; we did not receive any proceeds. Vivendi currently owns approximately 41 million shares of our common stock.

As
of December 31, 2014, we had 722 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. At that date, (i) Vivendi held 41 million shares, or approximately
6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, (ii) ASAC held 172 million shares, or approximately 24% of the outstanding shares of our
common stock, and (iii) our other stockholders held approximately 70% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to continue to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of high-quality interactive
entertainment software, online content and services that deliver highly satisfying entertainment experiences.

Continue to Improve Profitability.We continually strive to manage risk and increase our operating efficiency with the goal of
increased
profitability. We believe the key factors affecting our future profitability will be the success of proven franchises and genres, cost discipline, and our ability to benefit from the continued growth
of online and digital revenue opportunities.









Create Shareholder Value.We continue to focus on enhancing shareholder returns through profitable operations and strong cash flows. As
a result, we
expect to continue to achieve long-term growth and to deliver returns to our shareholders.

Grow Through Continued Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances.We intend to continue to evaluate the expansion of our resources, the
geographic reach
of our products, and our intellectual properties library through acquisitions, strategic relationships, and key licensing transactions. We will also continue to invest in, and build on, existing
alliances and relationships. In addition, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our proven development expertise through the acquisition of, or investment in, selected experienced
software development firms.

Focus on Delivery of Digital Content and Online Services.We continue to shift towards digital delivery of content and to establish and
develop
direct and long-term relationships with our gamers. We will also continue to support, maintain and enhance the online communities for our games and franchises, such as the World of Warcraft and Call
of Duty online communities. We believe that focusing our efforts on online product innovations, such as additional online content, services and social connectivity, provides lasting value to our
global communities of players. In addition, we are expanding into new business models for the digital delivery of content, including offering free-to-play games with monetization through in-game
microtransactions, as well as increasing our presence on new digital platforms, such as mobile and tablet devices.

Competition

We compete for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers with other interactive entertainment companies, as well as with
providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment, music and other consumer products.

The
interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size
from small companies with limited resources to large corporations who may have greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. Due to their different focuses and
allocation of resources, certain of our competitors may spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing
policies, pay higher fees for licenses, and pay more to third-party software developers than we do. In addition, competitors with large product lines and popular titles typically have greater leverage
with retailers, distributors, and other customers who may be willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in return for access to such competitor's most popular titles. We believe that the main
competitive factors in the interactive entertainment industry include: product features, game quality, and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access
to distribution channels; online capability and functionality; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service.

We
compete primarily with other publishers of PC, online and video game console interactive entertainment software. In addition to third-party software competitors, integrated video game
console hardware and software companies, such as Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony, compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. A number of software
publishers have developed and commercialized, or are currently developing, online games for use by consumers over the Internet. Further, we compete with publishers of mobile games, who may be narrowly
focused on publishing games for mobile and tablet devices. Lastly, with our Skylanders franchise and its toys and accessories, we compete indirectly with companies who sell toys to our target
consumers for this franchise. We expect new competitors to continue to emerge in the "toys to life", MMORPG, free-to-play and other microtransaction-based game categories.









Employees

At December 31, 2014, we had approximately 6,800 total full-time and part-time employees. At December 31, 2014,
approximately 110 of our full-time employees were subject to fixed-term employment agreements with us. These agreements generally commit the employee and the Company to employment terms of between one
and five years from the commencement of the agreement. Most of our employees who are subject to these agreements are executive officers or key members of the product development, sales, or marketing
divisions. These individuals perform services for us as executives, directors, producers, associate producers, computer programmers, game designers, sales directors, or marketing product managers. In
our experience, entering into employment agreements with these employees reduces our turnover during the development, production and distribution phases of our entertainment software products and
allows us to plan more effectively for future development and marketing activities. Some employees outside of the United States ("U.S.") are also party to employment agreements that do not specify a
fixed term.

The
majority of our employees in France, Germany, Spain, and Italy are subject to collective agreements as a part of normal business practices in those countries. In addition, certain
employees in France and Germany are subject to collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any labor-related work stoppages.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is significantly dependent on the creation, acquisition, use and protection of
intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and
to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games.

We
develop some of our products from wholly-owned intellectual properties that we create within our own studios. We also acquire the rights to include proprietary intellectual property
in our products through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain intellectual property through licenses and service agreements. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products
for specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game consoles, as well as handheld, mobile and tablet platforms, include technology that is owned by the console or wireless device
manufacturer, and is licensed non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from providers other than console manufacturers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our
business is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms and at reasonable rates.

We
actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to the software code in our products. Moreover, we own or
license the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights, trademarks and patents in the U.S. and in other countries as appropriate.

We
often distribute our PC products using copy protection technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In
addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed products. We are actively
engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various
enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.









Significant Customers

We did not have any single customer that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2014 or 2013. We had one customer, GameStop, that accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. We had one customer,
Wal-Mart, that accounted for 11% and 24% of consolidated gross receivables at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Operating Segments

We have three operating segments: (i) Activision Publishing, Inc. and its subsidiaries—publishing interactive
entertainment software products and downloadable content, (ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. and its subsidiaries—publishing real-time strategy games, role-playing games and
online subscription-based games in the MMORPG category, and (iii) Activision Blizzard Distribution—distributing interactive entertainment software and hardware products. See
Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments.

Activision—Business Overview

Strategy

Create, Acquire and Maintain Strong Franchises.Activision focuses on development and publishing activities, principally for products
and content
that are, or have the potential to become, franchises with sustainable mass consumer appeal and recognition. It is our experience that these products and content can then serve as the basis for
sequels, prequels and related new products and content that can be released over an extended period of time. We believe that the publishing and distribution of products and content based on proven
franchises enhances predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and operating profits. Our successful intellectual properties include the Call of Duty and Skylanders
franchises, and we intend to continue development of owned franchises in the future. We also have an exclusive 10-year alliance with Bungie, a developer of successful game franchises, forDestiny, which
was released on September 9, 2014.

Execute Disciplined Product Selection and Development Processes.The success of our publishing business
depends, in significant part, on our ability to develop high-quality games that will generate high unit volume sales. Our publishing units have implemented a formal control process for the selection,
development, production and quality assurance of our products. We apply this process, which we refer to as the "Greenlight Process," to all of our products, whether they are externally or internally
developed. The Greenlight Process includes regular in-depth reviews of each project at important stages of development by a team that includes many of our highest-ranking operating managers and
enables coordination among our sales, marketing and development staff at each step in the process.

We
develop our products using a combination of our internal development resources and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our external
developers based on their track records and expertise in producing products in the same category. One developer will often produce the same game for multiple platforms and will produce sequels to the
original game. We believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we
believe enhances the quality of our products and accelerates the timing of releases.

Focused Product Offerings, Diversity in Platforms and Geographies.We believe Activision has aligned its product offerings and cost
structure to
position the business for long-term growth. Through our online-enabled products and content, we believe we are best positioned to take advantage of retail and digital distribution channels that allow
us to deliver content to a broad range of gamers, ranging









from
children to adults and from core gamers to mass-market consumers and to "value" buyers seeking budget-priced software, in a variety of geographies. Presently, the majority of products that we
develop, publish and distribute operate on the PS4, PS3, Xbox One, Xbox 360, Wii U, and Wii console systems, and the PC.

In
addition, we create and distribute products for emerging and rapidly growing online-enabled platforms, such as Xbox Live and PlayStation Network, among others, where we support
in-game integration and bring together online experience and gameplay for our consumers. We typically offer our products for use on multiple platforms to reduce the risks associated with any single
platform, spread our costs over a larger installed hardware base, and increase unit sales. We intend to continue to offer both online and packaged software and games with localized content in
different geographies.

Products

In recent years, Activision has been best known for its success in the first-person action category from its internally-developed
intellectual property, Call of Duty. The Call of Duty franchise has achieved approximately $11 billion life-to-date revenues and has an active global community of millions of players. Our
latest release,Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, was released on November 4, 2014, and, was the #1 best-selling video game release worldwide and
#1 title on the next-generation PS4 and Xbox One console platforms in 2014, according to The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and our internal estimates. In January 2015, Activision launched a public open
beta in China forCall of Duty Online, a free-to-play game in which players are able to purchase or rent in-game items.

On
October 5, 2014, Activision launchedSkylanders Trap Team, the fourth title in our Skylanders franchise, an internally-developed
intellectual property that combines the use of physical toys with video games to deliver innovative gameplay experiences to our audience. Specifically, the games in the Skylanders franchise involve
"smart toys" consisting of action figures and accessories and an electronic "portal" which, when used with a figure or accessory, allows a player to store and access information about his or her
performance in the game. We sell the toys and accessories both bundled with the software for the titles and on a stand-alone basis.Skylanders Trap Teamcontinues with the innovative "toys to life" concept by allowing players to physically "trap" villains in the game. According to The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and our internal estimates, including
toys and accessories, for the third consecutive year, Skylanders was the #1 kids video game franchise of the year in the U.S., and globally and in 2014, Skylanders outsold all action figure lines
globally.

On
September 9, 2014, Activision released Bungie'sDestiny, an online universe of first-person action gameplay which we have called
the world's first "shared-world shooter". According to The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and our internal estimates, including toys and accessories, in 2014,Destinywas the #1 top-selling new video
game IP and was the #3 top selling new release of the year in North America and Europe combined. The first
expansion pack forDestiny, The Dark Below,containing all-new maps, missions, gear, weapons and raids, was released on December 9, 2014.

Activision
also develops products spanning other genres, including first-person action, action/adventure, role-playing, simulation and strategy.

Product Development and Support

Activision develops and produces titles using a model in which a core group of creative, production and technical professionals, in
coordination with our marketing, finance and other departments, has responsibility for the entire development and production process, including the supervision and coordination of internal and
external resources. This team assembles the necessary creative elements to complete a title using, where appropriate, outside programmers, artists, animators, scriptwriters, musicians and songwriters,
sound effects and special effects experts, and sound and video studios.









Activision
believes that this model allows us to supplement internal expertise with top-quality external resources on an as-needed basis.

In
addition, Activision often engages independent third-party developers to create products on Activision's behalf. We may either own or have rights to commercially exploit these
products. In other circumstances, a third-party developer may retain ownership of the intellectual property and/or technology included in the product, or reserve certain exploitation rights with
respect thereto. Activision typically selects these independent third-party developers based on their expertise in developing products in a specific category for specific platforms. Each of our
third-party developers is under contract with us, either for a single or multiple titles. From time to time, Activision also acquires the license rights to publish and/or distribute software products
that are, or will be, independently created by third-party developers. In such cases, the agreements with these developers typically provide us with exclusive publishing and/or distribution rights for
a specific period of time, often for specified platforms and territories. In either case, Activision often has the ability to publish and/or distribute sequels, conversions, enhancements, and add-ons
to the product initially being produced by the independent developer and Activision frequently has the right to engage the services of the original developer with regard to further product
development.

In
consideration for the services that external third-party developers provide, the developers can sometimes receive a royalty, which is generally based on net sales or operating income
of the developed products. Typically, developers also receive an advance, which Activision recoups from the royalties otherwise payable to the developers. The advance generally is paid in "milestone"
stages. The payment at each stage is tied to the completion and delivery of a detailed performance milestone. Working with external developers allows us to reduce our fixed development costs, share
development risks with the third-party developers, take advantage of the third-party developers' expertise in connection with certain categories of products or certain platforms, and gain access to
proprietary development technologies.

In
April 2010, Activision entered into a long-term exclusive relationship with Bungie, the developer of game franchises includingHalo,
MythandMarathon,to bring Bungie's next big action game universe,Destiny, to
market. Under the terms of the agreement, Activision will have exclusive, worldwide rights to publish and distribute all future Bungie games based onDestinyon multiple platforms and devices over a
ten-year period from the first release of the franchise. Activision releasedDestinyin September 2014.

Activision
provides various forms of product support to both our internally and externally developed titles. Activision 's central technology and development teams review, assess and
provide support to products throughout their milestone development phases. Quality assurance personnel are also involved throughout the development and production of each title published. Activision
subjects all such products to extensive testing before release to ensure compatibility with all appropriate hardware systems and configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects
found in the products. To support our products after release, Activision generally provides 24-hour online access to customer service representatives, as well as live telephone operators who answer
the help lines during regular business hours.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Activision's marketing efforts include activities on the Internet (including on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other online social
networks and websites), public relations, print and broadcast advertising, coordinated in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of purchase displays), participation in
cooperative advertising programs, direct response vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or the digital online services provided by Microsoft,
Nintendo, and Sony. From time to time, we also receive marketing









support
from hardware manufacturers, mass appeal consumer products related to a game, and retailers in connection with their own promotional efforts. In addition, many of our products contain software
that enables customers to "electronically register" with us online, which then allows us to connect with our gamers directly.

We
believe that our strong proven franchises and genres generate a loyal and devoted customer base that continues to engage with our franchise and purchase additional content as a result
of their dedication to the franchise and satisfaction from previous product purchases. We therefore market this additional content, including sequels, expansion packs and downloadable content toward
the established customer base as well as to broader audiences. In addition, we believe that we derive benefits for our licensed properties from the marketing and promotional activities undertaken by
the underlying intellectual property owners, in addition to our own marketing efforts.

North American Retail Sales and Distribution.Our products are available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets in North
America. Our
North American retail customers include, among others, Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, Toys "R" Us and Wal-Mart.

In
the U.S. and Canada, our products are often sold on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses and game specialty stores, as well to
consumers through direct digital purchases. We believe that a direct relationship with retailers results in more effective inventory management, merchandising and communications than would be possible
through indirect relationships. We have implemented electronic data interchange linkages with many of our retailers to facilitate the placing and shipping of orders. We also sell our products to a
limited number of distributors.

International Retail Sales and Distribution.Our products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party
distribution and
licensing arrangements, and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. We conduct our international publishing activities through offices in the United Kingdom ("U.K."), Germany,
France, Italy, Spain, Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, Australia and Ireland. We often seek to maximize our worldwide revenues and profits by releasing high-quality foreign language releases
concurrently with English language releases and by continuing to expand the number of direct selling relationships we maintain with key retailers in major territories.

Digital Distribution.Online and digital distribution channels are continuing to grow and comprise a significant part of our business.
Most of our
products and content are sold in a digital format, which allows consumers to purchase and download the content at their convenience directly to their PC, console system, or handheld, mobile or tablet
device. We partner with digital distributors to utilize this growing method of distribution. We also make downloadable content available to our customers to enhance their gaming experience through the
digital online services mainly provided by Microsoft and Sony. In addition, we are exploring new business models involving digital distribution, including offering free-to-play games with monetization
through in-game microtransactions.

Manufacturing

Activision prepares a set of master program copies, documentation and packaging materials for our products for each hardware platform
on which the product will be released. With respect to products for use on the Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony systems, our disk duplication, packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly
and shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors and Activision-owned distribution facilities.









To maintain protection over their hardware technologies, Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished
products and license their hardware technologies to us. We deliver the master materials to the licensor or its approved replicator, which then manufactures finished goods and delivers them to us for
distribution under our label. At the time our product unit orders are filled by the manufacturer, we become responsible for the costs of manufacturing and the applicable per unit royalty on such
units, even if the units do not ultimately sell.

Blizzard—Business Overview

Strategy

Maintain and Build upon Our Leadership Position in the Subscription-Based MMORPG Category and PC Online Categories.Blizzard plans to
maintain and
build upon our leadership position in the subscription-based MMORPG category by regularly providing new content, game features and online services to further solidify the loyalty of our subscriber
base, as well as to expand our global game footprint to new geographies.

We
believe that the PC will remain a vibrant online platform throughout the world. The large global PC installed base and the continuing development of broadband connectivity facilitates
online games and community experiences while creating access to new potential customers.

Expand our Intellectual Properties and Franchises into New Game Categories and Platforms.Blizzard plans to maintain and build upon its
intellectual
properties and franchises by developing new content and games under new business models, such as free-to-play, and on new platforms, such as console and mobile platforms. By leveraging its existing
intellectual properties and franchises and offering new content, game play and platform options, Blizzard expects to continue to expand its Battle.net community and attract new customers.

Products

World of Warcraft,the leading subscription-based MMORPG, was initially launched in
November 2004 and today is available in many countries and regions including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Europe (including Russia), Mexico, New Zealand, South Korea, Southeast
Asia, the U.S., and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. As of December 31, 2014, over 10 million gamers worldwide were subscribed* to play Blizzard'sWorld of Warcraft.World of Warcraftis available in multiple languages and has earned awards and praise
from publications around the world. Since the first release ofWorld of Warcraft, Blizzard has launched five expansion packs in all regions in which the
game is supported. Those expansion packs areWorld of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade®,which was first available in January 2007,World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King®,which was first available in November 2008, World of Warcraft:
Cataclysm®,which was first available in December 2010,World of Warcraft: Mists of
Pandaria®,which was first available in September 2012, and the newest expansion,World of Warcraft: Warlords of
Draenor, which was released in November 2014.

In
May 2012, Blizzard releasedDiablo IIIfor the PC at retail and through digital distribution channels in Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, Europe (including Russia), Mexico, New Zealand, South Korea, Southeast Asia, the U.S., and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan. In September 2013, Blizzard releasedDiablo IIIfor
the PS3 and Xbox 360 platforms. Blizzard released the



*World of Warcraftsubscribers include individuals who have paid a subscription fee or have an active prepaid
card to playWorld of Warcraft, as well as those who have purchased the game and are within their free month of access. Internet Game Room players who
have accessed the game over the last thirty days are also counted as subscribers. The above definition excludes all players under free promotional subscriptions, expired or cancelled subscriptions,
and expired prepaid cards. Subscribers in licensees' territories are defined along the same rules.









first
expansion pack toDiablo III, on the PC,Diablo III: Reaper of Souls, in March 2014 and on certain
consoles,Diablo III: Reaper of Souls—Ultimate Evil Edition, in August 2014.

In
July 2010, Blizzard launched the sequel toStarCraft,StarCraft II: Wings of
Liberty®,simultaneously around the world, including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, Europe (including Russia), Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, North
America, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. In March 2013, Blizzard released the first expansion pack toStarCraft II, StarCraft II: Heart of the
Swarm®.

Blizzard
releasedHearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, a free-to-play digital collectible card game, on the PC in March 2014, and on the iPad
and Android tablets later in 2014. In July 2014, Blizzard releasedCurse of Naxxramas:A Hearthstone
Adventure. The firstHearthstone: Heroes of Warcraftexpansion pack,Goblins vs
Gnomes,was released on December 8, 2014.

Additionally,
Blizzard maintains an online gaming service, Battle.net. Battle.net facilitates the creation of user generated content, digital distribution and online social connectivity
across all Blizzard games.

In
January 2015, Blizzard started closed beta testing forHeroes of the Storm, a new free-to-play online hero brawler.

Product Development and Support

As a development studio and the creator and publisher of the World of Warcraft, Diablo, StarCraft, and Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft
franchises, Blizzard focuses on creating well-designed, high-quality games. Product development is handled internally by a strong core group of talented designers, producers, programmers, artists, and
sound engineers. To maintain its current subscribers and attract new subscribers, Blizzard continues to develop new expansions and patches to upgradeWorld of
Warcraft. In addition to its headquarters in Irvine, California, Blizzard maintains offices in or around Austin, Texas; San Francisco, California; Paris, France; Cork, Ireland;
Seoul, South Korea; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and Taipei, Taiwan to provide 24/7 game support to players ofWorld of Warcraftand other Blizzard games
in their native language, enhance online community management, and tailor marketing initiatives to specific regions.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid
subscription cards; value-added services such as realm transfers, faction changes, character boost, and other character customizations withinWorld of
Warcraftgameplay; retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC products; purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile and tablet
platforms; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute World of Warcraft, Diablo, StarCraft, and Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft products. Many of our services
and products are digitally enabled, which allows us to take advantage of these rapidly growing channels and to reinforce Blizzard's long-term relationships with its gamers. In addition, Blizzard
operates the online game service, Battle.net, which attracts millions of active players, making it one of the largest online game-related services in the world. Battle.net powers games in the World of
Warcraft, Diablo, StarCraft, and Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft franchises, and is expected to power future releases. The service offers players advanced communications features, social networking,
player matching and digital content delivery and is designed to allow people to connect regardless of what Blizzard game they are playing.









Distribution—Business Overview

We distribute interactive entertainment hardware and software products in Europe through our European distribution subsidiaries:
Centresoft, in the U.K., and NBG, in Germany. These subsidiaries act as wholesalers in the distribution of products and also provide packaging, logistical and sales services. They provide services to
our publishing operations and to various third-party publishers, including Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony. Centresoft is Sony's preferred distributor of PlayStation products to the independent retail
sector of the U.K.

We
entered into the distribution business to obtain distribution capacity in Europe for our own products, while supporting the distribution infrastructure with third-party sales, and to
diversify our operations in the European market. Centresoft and our other distribution subsidiaries operate in accordance with strict confidentiality procedures to provide independent services to
various third-party publishers.

Additional Financial Information

See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 14 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments and geographic areas. See
the Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our practices with regard to
several working capital items, such as rights of returns, and inventory practices. See the Management's Overview of Business Trends under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" for information regarding product development expense during the past three years.

Available Information

Our website located athttp://www.activisionblizzard.comallows access free-of-charge
to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The information found on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this
or any other report that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

The
public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 (information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC also maintains a web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

