Item 1. Business 

Overview

Strategy

Maintain and Build upon Our Leadership Position in the Subscription-Based MMORPG Category and PC Online
Categories.

Currently, Blizzard operates five franchises, with a sixth slated for release in the spring of 2016. Our games are available in many countries and regions including
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Europe (including Russia), Mexico, New Zealand, South Korea, Southeast Asia, the U.S., and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. Blizzard
plans to maintain and build upon our leadership position in online gaming by regularly providing new content, game features and online services to further enhance the loyalty of our subscriber base,
as well as to expand our global game footprint to new geographies.

Blizzard's
strategy encompasses a careful and long-held approach to growing its community and deepening its engagement with high-quality content.



Products

World of Warcraft

, the leading subscription-based MMORPG and #1 PC franchise by
lifetime revenues, was initially launched in November 2004.

World of Warcraft

is available in multiple languages and has earned awards and praise from
publications around the world. Since the first release of

World of Warcraft

, Blizzard has launched five expansion packs in all regions in which the game
is supported. The most recent expansion,

World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor

, which was released in November 2014. We expect the next expansion,

World of Warcraft:
Legion

, to be released in the summer of 2016.

In
July 2010, Blizzard launched the real-time strategy PC game,

StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty

®, simultaneously around the
world. The first game in the StarCraft franchise was released in 1998 and was an early leader in global eSports and remains so today. In November 2015, Blizzard released the second expansion pack,

StarCraft II: Legacy of the
Void

™, completing the StarCraft II trilogy.

In
May 2012, Blizzard released the action role-playing game

Diablo III

for the PC at retail and through digital distribution. The first
Diablo game was released in 1996. In subsequent years, Blizzard released an expansion pack for the game,

Reaper of Souls

™, that was also
made available on next-generation and prior-generation consoles. In June 2015,

Diablo III

and its expansion were released for PC in China.

Blizzard
commercially launched

Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft,

an online collectible card game, in March 2014. Later in 2014, additional
content for the game was released, and versions of the game for iOS, Android, and Windows tablet devices became available. In April 2015,

Hearthstone: Heroes of
Warcraft

was released for iOS and Android smartphones. Three new content releases were also introduced in 2015, with the most recent being the game's third adventure pack,

The League of
Explorers

, in November 2015.

Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft

was Blizzard's first free-to
play game.

In
June 2015, Blizzard released

Heroes of the Storm

, a new online hero brawler.

Heroes of the
Storm

brings together a diverse cast of iconic characters from Blizzard's realms of science fiction and fantasy, including the Warcraft®, StarCraft, and Diablo
universes. The game is free to play, while individual heroes, skins, and other items can be purchased (or earned) in-game.

Additionally,
Blizzard maintains an online gaming service, Battle.net. Battle.net facilitates digital distribution and online social connectivity across all Blizzard games.

Product Development and Support

As a development studio and the creator and publisher of the World of Warcraft, Diablo, StarCraft, Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, and
Heroes of the Storm franchises, Blizzard focuses on creating well-designed, high-quality games. Product development is handled internally by a strong core group of talented designers, producers,
programmers, artists, and sound engineers. To maintain player engagement and attract new players, Blizzard continues to develop new expansions and patches to upgrade its games. In addition to its
headquarters in Irvine, California, Blizzard maintains offices in or around Austin, Texas; San Francisco, California; Paris, France; Cork, Ireland; Seoul, South Korea; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and
Taipei, Taiwan to provide 24/7 game support to players of

World of Warcraft

and other Blizzard games in their native language, enhance online community
management, and tailor marketing initiatives to specific regions.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid
subscription cards; add-on services and products such as card packs, heroes, realm transfers, faction changes, character level boost, character customizations and skin, and other cosmetic and
functional items; retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC products; purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile and tablet platforms; and licensing of
software to third-party or related party companies that distribute World of Warcraft,



Diablo,
StarCraft, Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, and Heroes of the Storm products. Many of our services and products are digitally enabled, which allows us to take advantage of these rapidly
growing channels and to reinforce Blizzard's long-term relationships with its gamers. In addition, Blizzard operates the online gaming service, Battle.net, which attracts millions of active players,
making it one of the largest online game-related services in the world. The service offers players communications features, social networking, player matching and digital content delivery and is
designed to allow people to connect regardless of what Blizzard game they are playing.

Other—Business Overview

Media Networks

Media Networks is a new division devoted to eSports and builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver the
best-in-class fan experience across games, platforms and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments, and premium content. On
December 22, 2015, we acquired the business of Major League
Gaming, Inc. to expand our reach across the rapidly-growing eSports ecosystem by adding proven live streaming capabilities and technologies to the Media Networks division. See Note 23 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding the acquisition of MLG.

Studios

The launch in 2015 of our film and television studios business is an important step in implementing our strategy of expanding the
platforms through which we offer our compelling intellectual property to existing fans and new audiences around the world. This includes an animated Skylanders television series which is already in
production and expected to be released in the fall of 2016. In the longer term we are working on developing a robust cinematic universe based on the Call of Duty franchise.

Distribution

Through our Distribution business we distribute interactive entertainment hardware and software products in Europe through our European
distribution subsidiaries: Centresoft, in the U.K., and NBG, in Germany. These subsidiaries act as wholesalers in the distribution of products and also provide packaging, logistical and sales
services. They provide services to our publishing operations and to various third-party publishers, including Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony. Centresoft is Sony's preferred distributor of PlayStation
products to the independent retail sector of the U.K.

Additional Financial Information

See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 13 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments and geographic areas. See
the Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our practices with regard to
several working capital items, such as rights of returns, and inventory practices. See the Management's Overview of Business Trends under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" for information regarding product development expense during the past three years.



Available Information

Our website located at

http://www.activisionblizzard.com

allows access free-of-charge
to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The information found on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this or any other
report that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

The
public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 (information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC also maintains a web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at

http://www.sec.gov

.