Item 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

Activision Blizzard is a worldwide publisher of online, personal computer ("PC"), video game console, tablet, handheld and mobile
games. Through Activision Publishing, Inc. ("Activision"), we are a leading international developer and publisher of interactive software products and content, with a focus on developing and
publishing video games on various consoles, handheld platforms and the PC platform using both internally developed franchises and licensed properties. Activision currently offers games that operate on
the Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. ("Sony") PlayStation 3 ("PS3"), Nintendo Co. Ltd. ("Nintendo") Wii ("Wii") and Nintendo Wii U ("Wii U"), and Microsoft Corporation
("Microsoft") Xbox 360 ("Xbox 360") console systems; the Nintendo Dual Screen ("DS") and Nintendo 3DS ("3DS") handheld game systems; the PC; and other handheld and mobile devices.
Through Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. ("Blizzard"), we are the leading publisher of online subscription-based games in the massively multiplayer online role-playing game ("MMORPG")
category. Blizzard also internally develops and publishes PC-based computer games and maintains a proprietary online-game related service, Battle.net®.

Our
Activision business involves the development, marketing, and sale of products through retail channels or digital downloads, by license or from our affiliate label program with
certain third-party publishers. Activision continues to focus its efforts in the areas we believe have the most opportunity for growth and higher profitability, while reducing investments in areas we
believe have less profit potential and limited growth opportunities. To that end, investments are being focused on proven intellectual properties to develop deep, high-quality content that
offers engaging online multiplayer gaming experiences. For example, during 2012, Activision releasedCall of Duty®:
Black Ops II, which









set
new video game launch retail sales records with over $1 billion of retail sales within 15 days of launch, according to GfK Chart-Track, retail customer sell-through
information and the Company's internal estimates. Activision is currently developing sequels and additional content to build on the continued success of the Call of Duty franchise.

While
focusing on our proven intellectual properties is one of Activision's priorities, we also continue to make strategic investments in developing new intellectual properties we
believe have the potential to be successful in the long term. For example, in 2011, we debuted a new internally developed franchise with the release ofSkylanders Spyro's
Adventure®, and launched its sequel,Skylanders Giants™,
in October 2012. Games in the Skylanders franchise combine the use of toys with video games to deliver innovative game play experience to our audiences. According to The NPD Group and GfK Chart-Track,
the Skylanders franchise has generated more than the $1 billion in worldwide sales life-to-date as of December 31, 2012. Additionally, we have established a
long-term alliance with Bungie, the developer of game franchises includingHalo, MythandMarathon,to bring Bungie's next big action game universe,Destiny™, to market in future
years.

Blizzard
is a development studio and publisher best known as the creator of World of Warcraft

®

,

as
well as the multiple award winning Diablo

®

and StarCraft

®

franchises. Blizzard
distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions (which consist of fees from individuals playing

World of
Warcraft

®

, sales of prepaid subscription cards and revenue from value-added services such as realm transfers, faction changes, and other
character customizations within the

World of Warcraft

gameplay); retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC products; and
licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute

World of Warcraft, Diablo III

, and

StarCraft

®

II

products. Blizzard has released four expansion packs to World of
Warcraft—

World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade

®

,

World of Warcraft: Wrath of
the Lich King

®

,

World of Warcraft: Cataclysm

®

, and

World of Warcraft: Mists of
Pandaria

®

(which launched in September 2012). In July 2010, the Company launched the
sequel to

StarCraft

,

StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty

®

. In conjunction
with the release of

StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty

, Blizzard launched a new version of its 24/7 online gaming service, Battle.net, facilitating the
creation of user generated content, digital distribution and online social connectivity among

World of Warcraft

and

StarCraft

players. In May 2012,
the Company released

Diablo III

, which became the #1 best-selling PC game at retail, breaking PC-game sales records with more
than 12 million copies sold worldwide through December 31, 2012. Blizzard also plans to release its first

StarCraft II

expansion,

Heart of the Swarm

TMon March 12, 2013. On February 20, 2013, Blizzard announced that it is developing

Diablo III

for the Sony PS3, and confirmed plans to adapt the game for Sony's PlayStation
4 ("PS4"), its next-generation computer
entertainment system.

The
Activision Blizzard Distribution ("Distribution") business consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party
publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.

The Company's Formation and Business Combination

Activision, Inc. was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. On
July 9, 2008, a business combination (the "Business Combination") by and among Activision, Inc., Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision, Inc.,
Vivendi S.A. ("Vivendi"), VGAC LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi , and Vivendi Games, Inc. ("Vivendi Games"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGAC LLC, was
consummated. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision, Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Blizzard is a public company traded on the
NASDAQ under the ticker symbol "ATVI."









Our Strategy

Our objective is to continue to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of quality interactive
entertainment software, online content and services that deliver a highly satisfying entertainment experience.

Continue to Improve Profitability.We continually strive to manage risk and increase our operating efficiency with the goal of
increased
profitability. We believe the key factors affecting our future profitability will be the success of our core properties, proven franchises and genres, cost discipline, and our ability to benefit from
the continued growth of online and digital revenue opportunities.

Create Shareholder Value.We continue to focus on enhancing shareholder return through profitable operations, and strong cash flows. As
a result, we
expect to continue to achieve long-term growth and to deliver returns to our shareholders.

Grow Through Continued Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances.We intend to continue to evaluate the expansion of our resources and
intellectual
properties library through acquisitions, strategic relationships, and key license transactions. We will also continue to invest in and build on existing alliances and relationships. In addition, we
will continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our proven development expertise through the acquisition of, or investment in, selected experienced software development firms.

Focus on Delivery of Digital Content and Online Services.We continue to shift towards digital delivery of content and to establish and
develop
direct and long-term relationships with our gamers. We will also continue to support, maintain and enhance the World of Warcraft and Call of Duty online communities. We believe that
focusing our efforts on online product innovations, such as additional online content, services and social connectivity, provides lasting value enhancement to our global communities of players. In
addition, we are exploring new business models for delivering content digitally, including offering free-to-play games with monetization through in-game
microtransactions.

Competition

We compete for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers with other interactive entertainment companies, as well as with
providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment and music.

The
interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size
from small
companies with limited resources to large corporations who may have greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. Due to their different focuses and allocation of
resources, certain of our competitors may spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher
fees for licenses, and pay more to third-party software developers. In addition, competitors with large product lines and popular titles typically have greater leverage with retailers, distributors,
and other customers who may be willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in return for access to such competitor's most popular titles. We believe that the main competitive factors in the
interactive entertainment industry include: product features, game quality, and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access to distribution channels;
online capability and functionality; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service.

We
compete primarily with other publishers of PC, online and video game console interactive entertainment software. In addition to third-party software competitors, integrated video game
console hardware and software companies, such as Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft, compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. Further, a number of
software









publishers
have developed and commercialized, or are currently developing, online games for use by consumers over the Internet, and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge in the
subscription-based MMORPG and microtransaction-based game categories, as well as in the growing "toys to life" category. Lastly, we compete with publishers of mobile games, who may be narrowly focused
on publishing games for handheld and mobile devices.

Employees

We had approximately 6,700 total full-time and part-time employees at December 31, 2012. At
December 31, 2012, approximately 110 of our full-time employees were subject to term employment agreements with us. These agreements generally commit the employees to employment
terms of between one and five years from the commencement of their respective agreements. Most of the employees subject to these agreements are executive officers or key members of the product
development, sales, or marketing divisions. These individuals perform services for us as executives, directors, producers, associate producers, computer programmers, game designers, sales directors,
or marketing product managers. In our experience, entering into employment agreements with these employees reduces our turnover during the development, production and distribution phases of our
entertainment software products and allows us to plan more effectively for future development and marketing activities. Some employees outside of the United States are also party to employment
agreements that do not specify a fixed term.

The
majority of our employees in France, Spain and Italy, and in our distribution companies in Germany, are subject to collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced
any labor-related work stoppages.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is significantly dependent on the creation, acquisition, use and protection of
intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and
to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games.

We
develop some of our products from wholly-owned intellectual properties that we create within our own studios. We also acquire the rights to include proprietary intellectual property
in our products through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain intellectual property through licenses and service agreements. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products
for specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game consoles and handheld platforms include technology that is owned by the console or wireless device manufacturer, and licensed
non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from providers other than console manufacturers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the
justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms and at
reasonable rates.

We
actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to the software code in our products. Moreover, we own or
license the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights, trademarks and patents in the United States and other countries as appropriate.

We
often distribute our PC products using copy protection technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our product. In
addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed products. We are actively
engaged in









enforcement
and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various enforcement
initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.

Significant Customers

We had one customer, GameStop, which accounted for approximately 10% and 12% of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2010, respectively. We did not have any single customer that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Operating Segments

We have three operating segments: (i) Activision Publishing, Inc. and its subsidiaries—publishing interactive
entertainment software products and downloadable content, (ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. and its subsidiaries—publishing real-time strategy,
role-playing PC games and online subscription-based games in the MMORPG category, and (iii) Activision Blizzard Distribution—distributing interactive entertainment
software and hardware products ("Distribution"). See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for certain additional information regarding operating segments.

Activision—Business Overview

Strategy

Create, Acquire and Maintain Strong Franchises.Activision focuses on development and publishing activities, principally for products
and content
that are, or have the potential to become, franchises with sustainable mass consumer appeal and recognition. It is our experience that these products and content can then serve as the basis for
sequels, prequels and related new products and content that can be released over an extended period of time. We believe that the publishing and distribution of products and content based on proven
franchises enhances predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and operating profits. We own several successful intellectual properties including the Call of Duty and
Skylanders franchises, and we intend to continue development of owned franchises in the future. We also have an exclusive 10-year alliance with Bungie, a developer of successful game
franchises, to bring Bungie's next big action game universe,Destiny, to market.

Execute Disciplined Product Selection and Development Processes.The success of our publishing business depends, in significant part,
on our ability
to develop high-quality games that will generate high unit volume sales. Our publishing units have implemented a formal control process for the selection, development, production and
quality assurance of our products. We apply this process, which we refer to as the "Greenlight Process," to all of our products, whether externally or internally developed. The Greenlight Process
includes in-depth reviews of each project at several important stages of development by a team that includes many of our highest-ranking operating managers and coordination among our
sales, marketing and development staff at each step in the process.

We
develop our products using a combination of our internal development resources and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our external
developers based on their track records and expertise in producing products in the same category. One developer will often produce the same game for multiple platforms and will produce sequels to the
original game. We believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we
believe enhances the quality of our products and accelerates the timing of releases.









Focused Product Offerings, Diversity in Platforms and Geographies.We believe Activision has aligned its product offerings and cost
structure to
position the business for long-term growth. Through our online-enabled products and content, we believe we are best positioned to take advantage of retail and digital distribution channels
that allow us to deliver content to a diversity of gamers ranging from children to adults and from core gamers to mass-market consumers and to "value" buyers seeking budget-priced
software, in a variety of geographies. Presently, the majority of products that we develop, publish and distribute operate on the PS3, Xbox 360, Wii, and Wii U console systems, and the PC. We
will consider the development of "next-generation" consoles as we invest in our product delivery on each current and future platform.

In
addition, emerging and rapidly growing online-enabled platforms, in which we will support in-game integration and bring together online experience and gameplay, will
continue to be a focus. We typically offer our products for use on multiple platforms to reduce the risks associated with any single platform, spread our costs over a larger installed hardware base,
and increase unit sales. We intend to continue to offer both online and packaged software and games with localized content in different geographies.

Products

In recent years, Activision has been best known for its success in the first-person action category from its internally-developed
intellectual property, Call of Duty. The Call of Duty franchise has achieved over $8 billion life-to-date sales and has an active global community of millions of
players. Its latest release,Call of Duty: Black Ops II, was released on November 13, 2012, and became the first video game ever to cross
$1 billion of retail sales during the first 15 days of its launch, according to GfK Chart-Track, retail customer sell-through information, and the Company's internal
estimates.

During
2012, Activision released four collections of downloadable content packs forCall of Duty: Modern Warfare®3.On January 29, 2013,
we releasedRevolution,the first downloadable map pack forCall of Duty: Black Ops II, ("Revolution") on
the Xbox 360.Revolutionis expected to be available on other platforms during the first quarter of 2013.

On
October 21, 2012, we launchedSkylanders Giants, the second title in our Skylanders franchise, an internally-developed
intellectual property that combines the use of toys with video games to deliver an innovative game play experience to our audiences. Specifically, the game involves "smart toys" consisting of action
figures and an electronic "portal" which, when used together, allow a player to store and access information about his or her character's performance in the game. We sell the toys both bundled with
the game software for the titles and on a stand-alone basis. According to The NPD
Group and GfK Chart-Track, the Skylanders franchise has generated more than the $1 billion in worldwide sales life-to-date as of December 31, 2012.

Activision
also develops products spanning other genres, including first-person action, action/adventure, role-playing, simulation and strategy.

Product Development and Support

Activision develops and produces titles using a model in which a core group of creative, production and technical professionals, in
coordination with our marketing, finance and other departments, have responsibility for the entire development and production process, including the supervision and coordination of internal and
external resources. This team assembles the necessary creative elements to complete a title using, where appropriate, outside programmers, artists, animators, scriptwriters, musicians and songwriters,
sound effects and special effects experts, and sound and video studios. Activision believes that this model allows us to supplement internal expertise with top-quality external resources
on an as-needed basis.









In
addition, Activision often engages independent third-party developers to create products on Activision's behalf. We may either own, or have rights to commercially exploit, these
products. In other circumstances, a third-party developer may retain ownership of the intellectual property and/or technology included in the product, or reserve certain exploitation rights with
respect thereto. Activision typically selects these independent third-party developers based on their expertise in developing products in a specific category for specific platforms. Each of our
third-party developers is under contract with us, either for a single or multiple titles. From time to time, Activision also acquires the license rights to publish and/or distribute software products
that are or will be independently created by third-party developers. In such cases, the agreements with these developers typically provide us with exclusive publishing and/or distribution rights for a
specific period of time, often for specified platforms and territories. In either case, Activision often has the ability to publish and/or distribute sequels, conversions, enhancements, and
add-ons to the product initially being produced by the independent developer and Activision frequently has the right to engage the services of the original developer with regard to further
product development.

In
consideration for the services that independent third-party developers provide, the developers receive a royalty, which is generally based on net sales or operating income of the
developed products. Typically, developers also receive an advance, which Activision recoups from the royalties otherwise
payable to the developers. The advance generally is paid in "milestone" stages. The payment at each stage is tied to the completion and delivery of a detailed performance milestone. Working with
independent developers allows us to reduce our fixed development costs, share development risks with the third-party developers, take advantage of the third-party developers' expertise in connection
with certain categories of products or certain platforms, and gain access to proprietary development technologies.

In
April 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive 10-year relationship with Bungie, the developer of game franchises includingHalo,
MythandMarathon,to bring Bungie's next big action game universe,Destiny, to
market. Under the terms of the agreement, Activision will have exclusive, worldwide rights to publish and distribute all future Bungie games based onDestiny, the new intellectual property on multiple
platforms and devices.

Activision
provides various forms of product support to both our internally and externally developed titles. Activision quality assurance personnel are involved throughout the
development and production of each title published. Activision subjects all such products to extensive testing before release to ensure compatibility with all appropriate hardware systems and
configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects found in the products. To support our products after release, Activision generally provides 24-hour online access to
customer service representatives, as well as live telephone operators who answer the help lines during regular business hours.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Activision's marketing efforts include activities on the Internet (including on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other online social
networks and websites), public relations, print and broadcast advertising, coordinated in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of purchase displays),
participation in cooperative advertising programs, direct response vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or the digital online services
provided by Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo. From time to time, we also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers, mass appeal consumer products related to a game, and retailers in connection
with their own promotional efforts. In addition, certain of our products contain software that enables customers to "electronically register" their purchases with us online.

We
believe that our strong proven franchises and genres generate a loyal and devoted customer base that continues to purchase our sequels as a result of their dedication to the franchise
and









satisfaction
from previous product purchases. We therefore market these sequels, expansion packs and downloadable content toward the established customer base as well as to broader audiences. In
addition, we believe that we derive benefits for our licensed properties from the marketing and promotional activities undertaken by the underlying intellectual property owners, in addition to our own
marketing efforts.

North American Sales and Distribution.Our products are available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets in North America.
Our North
American retail customers include, among others, Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, Toys "R" Us and Wal-Mart.

In
the United States ("U.S.") and Canada, our products are primarily sold on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses and
game specialty stores. We believe that a direct relationship with retailers results in more effective inventory management, merchandising and communications than would be possible through indirect
relationships. We have implemented electronic data interchange linkages with many of our retailers to facilitate the placing and shipping of orders. We also sell our products to a limited number of
distributors.

International Sales and Distribution.Our products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party
distribution and licensing arrangements, and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. We conduct our international publishing activities through offices in the United Kingdom
("U.K."), Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, Australia and Ireland. We often seek to maximize our worldwide revenues and profits by releasing high-quality
foreign language releases concurrently with English language releases and by continuing to expand the number of direct selling relationships we maintain with key retailers in major territories.

Digital Distribution.Online and digital distribution channels are continuing to grow. Some of our products and content are sold in a
digital format,
which allows consumers to purchase and download the content at their convenience directly to their PC, console system or wireless device. We partner with digital distributors to utilize this growing
method of distribution. We also make available to our customers value-added downloadable content to enhance their gaming experience through the digital online services provided by Microsoft, Sony and
Nintendo.

Affiliate Labels.In addition to our own products, we distribute a select number of interactive entertainment products that are
developed and
marketed by other third-party publishers through our "affiliate label" programs in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. The distribution of other publishers' products allows us to
increase the efficiencies of our sales force and provides us with the ability to better ensure adequate shelf presence at retail stores for all of the products that we distribute. Services we provide
under our affiliate label programs include order solicitation, in-store marketing, logistics and order fulfillment, and sales channel management, as well as other accounting and general
administrative functions. Our current affiliate label partners include LucasArts, as well as several developers partnering with our "value" business, which offers budget-priced software to the public.
Each affiliate label relationship is unique and may pertain only to distribution in certain geographic territories and may be further limited only to a specific title or titles for specific platforms.

Manufacturing

Activision prepares a set of master program copies, documentation and packaging materials for our products for each hardware platform
on which the product will be released. With respect to products for use on the Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft systems, our disk duplication, packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly and
shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors and Company-owned distribution facilities.

To
maintain protection over their hardware technologies, Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished products and license their
hardware









technologies
to us. We deliver the master materials to the licensor or its approved replicator, which then manufactures finished goods and delivers them to us for distribution under our label. At the
time our product unit orders are filled by the manufacturer, we become responsible for the costs of manufacturing and the applicable per unit royalty on such units, even if the units do not ultimately
sell.

Blizzard—Business Overview

Strategy

Maintain and Build upon Our Leadership Position in the Subscription-Based MMORPG Category and PC Online
Categories.Blizzard plans to maintain and build upon our leadership position in the subscription-based MMORPG category by regularly providing new content, game features and
online services to further solidify the loyalty of our subscriber base, as well as to expand our global game footprint to new geographies.

We
believe that the PC will remain a vibrant online platform throughout the world. The large global PC installed base and the continuing development of broadband connectivity facilitates
online games and community experiences while creating access to new potential customers. Further,World of Warcraftis a server-based game, only
playable online, thus allowing Blizzard to be one of the few companies that can target markets that have been dominated by piracy and monetize former illegitimate players, as well as expand in markets
that have not been penetrated by consoles, but offer a large PC installed base.

Products

Blizzard is the leading company in the subscription-based MMORPG category.World of
Warcraftwas initially launched in November 2004 and today is available in many countries and regions including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Europe
(including Russia), Mexico, New Zealand, South Korea, Southeast Asia, the U.S., and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 9.6 million gamers
worldwide were subscribed* to play Blizzard'sWorld of Warcraft.World of Warcraftis available in
various languages based on the regions in which it is played and has earned awards and praise from publications around the world. Since the first release ofWorld of
Warcraft, Blizzard has launched four expansion packs in all regions in which the game is supported. The four expansion packs areWorld of Warcraft: The
Burning Crusade,which was first available in January 2007,World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King,which was first available
in November 2008, World of Warcraft: Cataclysmwhich was first available in December 2010, andWorld of Warcraft: Mists of
Pandaria,which was first available in September 2012. Revenues associated with the World of Warcraft franchise accounted for 61%, 90%, and 89% of Blizzard's net revenues for
the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.

On
May 15, 2012, Blizzard releasedDiablo IIIat retail and through digital distribution channels in Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, Europe (including Russia), Mexico, New Zealand, South Korea, Southeast Asia, the U.S., and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan. Blizzard also launched a real-money
auction house at the same time as theDiablo IIIrelease dates to further engageDiablo IIIplayers. The
real-money auction house allows players to sell items won in the game, such as weapons, armor, and runes, for real money to other players.



*World of Warcraftsubscribers include individuals who have paid a subscription fee or have an active prepaid
card to playWorld of Warcraft, as well as those who have purchased the game and are within their free month of access. Internet Game Room players who
have accessed the game over the last thirty days are also counted as subscribers. The above definition excludes all players under free promotional subscriptions, expired or cancelled subscriptions,
and expired prepaid cards. Subscribers in licensees' territories are defined along the same rules.









Additionally,
in July 2010, Blizzard launched the sequel to StarCraft,StarCraft II: Wings of Libertysimultaneously around the world,
including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, Europe (including Russia), Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, North America, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, and the regions of Hong
Kong, Macau and Taiwan. In conjunction with the release ofStarCraft II: Wings of Liberty, Blizzard launched a new version of its 24/7 online gaming service, Battle.net, providing user generated content,
 digital
distribution and online social connectivity amongWorld of WarcraftandStarCraftplayers.

Product Development and Support

As a development studio and the creator and publisher of the World of Warcraft, Diablo and StarCraft franchises, Blizzard focuses on
creating well-designed, high-quality games. Product development is handled internally by a strong core group of talented designers, producers, programmers, artists, and sound
engineers. To maintain its current subscribers and attract new subscribers, Blizzard continues to develop new patches to upgradeWorld of Warcraft. In
addition to its headquarters in Irvine, California, Blizzard maintains offices in or around Austin, Texas; Paris, France; Cork, Ireland; Seoul, South Korea; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and Taipei,
Taiwan to provide 24/7 game support toWorld of Warcraftplayers in their native language, enhance online community management, and tailor marketing
initiatives to specific regions.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions (which consist of
fees from individuals playingWorld of Warcraft,sales of prepaid subscription cards, and revenue from value-added services such as realm transfers,
faction changes, and other character customizations within theWorld of Warcraftgameplay); retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download
sales of PC products; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distributeWorld of Warcraft, Diablo III,andStarCraft IIproducts. Many of our services and products are digitally enabled, which allows us to take advantage of these rapidly growing channels and
to reinforce Blizzard's long-term relationships with its gamers. In addition, Blizzard operates the online game service, Battle.net, which attracts millions of active players, making it
one of the largest online-game related services in the world. Battle.net powersDiablo III,StarCraft II: Wings of
LibertyandWorld of Warcraft, and is expected to power future releases. The service offers players advanced communications
features, social networking, player matching and digital content delivery and is designed to allow people to connect regardless of what Blizzard game they are playing.

Distribution—Business Overview

We distribute interactive entertainment hardware and software products in Europe through our European distribution subsidiaries:
Centresoft, in the U.K., and NBG, in Germany. These subsidiaries act as wholesalers in the distribution of products and also provide packaging, logistical and sales services. They provide services to
our publishing operations and to various third-party publishers, including Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. Centresoft is Sony's preferred distributor of PlayStation products to the independent retail
sector of the U.K.

We
entered into the distribution business to obtain distribution capacity in Europe for our own products, while supporting the distribution infrastructure with third-party sales, and to
diversify our operations in the European market. Centresoft and our other distribution subsidiaries operate in accordance with strict confidentiality procedures to provide independent services to
various third-party publishers.









Additional Financial Information

See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 13 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments and
geographic areas. See the Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our
practices with regard to several working capital items, such as rights of returns, and inventory practices. See the Management's Overview of Business Trends under Item 7 "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business.

Available Information

Our website located athttp://www.activisionblizzard.comallows access
free-of-charge to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The information found on our website
is not a part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

The
public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 (information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC also maintains a web site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

