Item 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

Activision Blizzard is a worldwide online, personal computer ("PC"), console, and handheld game publisher. Through Activision
Publishing, Inc. ("Activision"), we are a leading international publisher of interactive software products and peripherals. Activision develops and publishes video games on various consoles,
handheld platforms and the PC platform through internally developed franchises and license agreements. Activision currently offers games that operate on the Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
("Sony") PlayStation 2 ("PS2"), Sony PlayStation 3 ("PS3"), Nintendo Co. Ltd. ("Nintendo") Wii ("Wii"), and Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") Xbox 360 ("Xbox 360")
console systems; the Sony PlayStation Portable ("PSP") and Nintendo Dual Screen ("NDS") handheld devices; the PC; the Apple iPhone ("iPhone"); and the new handheld game system Nintendo DSi. Through
Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. ("Blizzard"), we are the leader in terms of subscriber base and revenues generated in the subscription-based massively multiplayer online role-playing
game ("MMORPG") category. Blizzard internally develops and publishes PC-based computer games and maintains its proprietary online-game related service, Battle.net.

Our
Activision business involves the development, marketing, and sale of products directly, by license, and through our affiliate label program with certain third-party publishers.
Activision's products cover diverse game categories including action/adventure, action sports, racing, role-playing, simulation, first-person action, music, and strategy. Activision's
target customer base ranges from casual players to core gamers, and children to adults. During 2009, Activision releasedCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 2,Guitar Hero V, DJ
Hero,Band Hero,Tony Hawk: Ride,andPROTOTYPEand continued to publish licensed
products, with titles such asMonsters vs. Aliens,Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs, Bakugan Battle Brawlers, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen,X-Men Origins:
Wolverine,Marvel Ultimate Alliance 2,and several other titles. Activision is currently developing sequels to the Guitar Hero
and Call of Duty franchises,True Crime, an action thriller through United Front Games,Blurthrough Bizarre Creations for the racing genre andSingularitya first person action game through
Raven Software, among other titles.

Our
Blizzard business involves the development, marketing, sales and support of role playing action and strategy games. Blizzard also develops, hosts, and supports its online
subscription-based games in the MMORPG category. Blizzard is the development studio and publisher best known as the creator ofWorld of Warcraftand the
multiple award winning Diablo, StarCraft, and World of Warcraft franchises. Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions (which
consist of fees from individuals playingWorld of Warcraft,including from sales of prepaid-cards and other value added services); retail sales of
physical "boxed" products; electronic download sales of PC products; and licensing of software to third-party companies that distributeWorld of
Warcraftin Russia, China and Taiwan. Blizzard has released two expansion packs toWorld of Warcraft;World of Warcraft: The Burning
CrusadeandWorld of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King. Blizzard is
currently developing new games, including a new expansion pack to the World of Warcraft franchise, Cataclysm,StarCraft II:
Wings of Liberty,which will be released with the new and improved Battle.net, and sequels to the Diablo franchise.

Our
distribution business consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment
software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.

The Company

Activision, Inc. was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In June
2000, Activision, Inc. reorganized into a holding company organizational structure. As described in the explanatory note above, Activision, Inc. consummated a











business
combination with Vivendi Games during the year ended December 31, 2008 and was renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Blizzard is a public company traded on the NASDAQ
under the ticker symbol "ATVI."

Our Strategy

Our objective is to continue to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of quality interactive
entertainment software, peripheral products, and online games that deliver a highly satisfying consumer entertainment experience. Through Blizzard, we plan to maintain and build upon our worldwide
leadership position of online subscription-based games in the MMORPG category.

Continue to Improve Profitability.We continually strive to manage risk and increase our operating leverage and efficiency with the goal
of increased
profitability. We believe that the key factors affecting our future profitability will be the success rate of our core properties, proven franchises and genres, and our ability to leverage the
continued growth of online and digital revenue opportunities.

Create Shareholder Value.We continue to focus and enhance shareholder return in growing operating margin, maintaining a strong balance
sheet, and
producing strong cash flow generation.

Grow Through Continued Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances.We intend to continue to evaluate the expansion of our resources and
intellectual
properties library through acquisitions, strategic relationships, and key license transactions. We will also continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our proven development expertise through the
acquisition of, or investment in, selected experienced software development firms.

Competition

We compete for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers with other video game companies, as well as with other
providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment and music.

The
interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size
from small
companies with limited resources to large corporations with greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. Due to their different focuses and allocation of resources,
certain of our competitors spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to
licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports and character properties, and pay more to third-party software developers. In addition, competitors with large product lines and popular
titles typically have greater leverage with retailers, distributors, and other customers who may be willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in return for access to such competitor's most
popular titles. We believe that the main competitive factors in the interactive entertainment industry include: product features and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with
popular platforms; access to distribution channels; quality of products; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service.

We
compete primarily with other publishers of personal computer and video game console interactive entertainment software. In addition to third-party software competitors, integrated
video game console hardware and software companies such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. In addition,
certain major media companies, such as Walt Disney Company and Time Warner, Inc., which have been investing in video game products, have increased competition within the industry. Further, a
number of software publishers have developed and commercialized, or are currently developing, online games for











use
by consumers over the Internet, and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge in the MMORPG category.

Employees

We had approximately 7,000 total full-time and part-time employees at December 31, 2009. At
December 31, 2009, 191 of our full-time employees were subject to term employment agreements with us. These agreements generally commit the employees to employment terms of between
one and five years from the commencement of their respective agreements. Most of the employees subject to these agreements are executive officers or key members of the product development, sales, or
marketing divisions. These individuals perform services for us as executives, directors, producers, associate producers, computer programmers, game designers, sales directors, or marketing product
managers. In our experience, entering into employment agreements with these employees reduces our turnover during the development, production, and distribution phases of our entertainment software
products and allows us to plan more effectively for future development and marketing activities.

A
small number of our employees in France, Spain and Germany are subject to collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any labor-related work stoppages.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is significantly based on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection of
intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make them
run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games.

We
develop products from wholly-owned intellectual properties we create within our own studios. We also acquire the rights to include proprietary intellectual property in our products
through acquisitions. In addition, we also obtain intellectual property through licenses and service agreements. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products for
specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game consoles and handheld platforms include technology that is owned by the console, or wireless device manufacturer, and licensed
non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from providers other than console manufacturers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the
justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms and at
reasonable rates.

We
actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to the software code, as well as the brand or title name
trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries as appropriate.

We
often distribute our PC products using copy protection technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In
addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed product. We are actively
engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various
enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.









Operating Segments

Activision Publishing Segment ("Activision")—Business Overview

Strategy

Create, Acquire, and Maintain Strong Franchises.Activision focuses on development and publishing activities principally for products
that are, or
have the potential to become, franchises with sustainable mass consumer appeal and recognition. It is our experience that these products can then serve as the
basis for sequels, prequels, and related new products that can be released over an extended period of time. We believe that the publishing and distribution of products based on proven franchises
enhances predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and operating profits. We own a number of successful intellectual properties such as the Call of Duty and Guitar Hero
franchises. We intend to continue to develop owned franchises in the future. We have also entered into a series of strategic relationships with the owners of intellectual properties pursuant to which
we have acquired the rights to publish products based on franchises such as DreamWorks' Animation LLC ("DreamWorks"), Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. ("Harrah"), Hasbro Properties Group
("Hasbro"), MGM Interactive and EON Productions Ltd. ("MGM & EON"), Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel"), Marvel Entertainment, Inc. ("Marvel"), and professional skateboarder Tony Hawk,
to develop video games based on their intellectual property.

Execute Disciplined Product Selection and Development Processes.The success of our publishing business depends, in significant part,
on our ability
to develop high quality games that will generate high unit volume sales. Our publishing units have implemented a formal control process for the selection, development, production, and quality
assurance of our products. We apply this process, which we refer to as the "Greenlight Process," to all of our products, whether externally or internally developed. The Greenlight Process includes
in-depth reviews of each project at several important stages of development by a team that includes many of our highest-ranking operating managers and coordination between our sales and
marketing personnel and development staff at each step in the process.

We
develop our products using a combination of our internal development resources and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our external
developers based











on
their track records and expertise in producing products in the same category. One developer will often produce the same game for multiple platforms and will produce sequels to the original game. We
believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we believe enhances the
quality of our products and timing of releases.

Create and Maintain Diversity in Product Mix, Platforms, and Markets.We believe that maintaining a diversified mix of products can
reduce our
operating risks and enhance profitability. Therefore, we develop and publish products spanning a wide range of genres, including action/adventure, action sports, racing, role-playing,
simulation, first-person action, music-based gaming, and strategy. We also develop products designed for target audiences ranging from casual players to core gamers, children to adults, and
mass-market consumers to "value" buyers who seek budget-priced software. Presently, the majority of products that we develop, publish, and distribute operate on the PS3, Xbox 360,
and Wii console systems, the PSP, NDS and the iPhone, and the PC. We
offer games with localized content in different geographies and both online and offline. We typically offer our products for use on multiple platforms to reduce the risks associated with any single
platform, leverage our costs over a larger installed hardware base, and increase unit sales.

Products

Activision has been best known for our action/adventure, action sports, role-playing, simulation, first-person action, and
music video game products. We have had long-term success in the first person action categories through the Call of Duty original intellectual property, including the latest release,

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2,

and we plan on continuing to develop this franchise. Call of Duty has achieved approximately $3 billion
life-to-date revenue. We are a leading company in the music-based gaming genre with the Guitar Hero franchise, which combines interactive software with hardware peripherals. We
expanded the franchise with the additions of

DJ Hero

and

Band Hero

releases during 2009.

Band Hero

is
accompanied by hardware peripherals consisting of a guitar, drum, and microphone, and

DJ
Hero

is accompanied with a turntable peripheral. We have been successful in the superheroes category with our releases of titles based on the Spider-Man and
X-Men properties, including the 2009 release of

Marvel Ultimate Alliance 2

and

X-Men Origins:
Wolverine

. Our Tony Hawk franchise has been a leader in the action sports genre, and we have a recently released game,

Tony Hawk:
Ride

, to continue the strength of this franchise with an innovative skateboard controller. We have continued our success with the DreamWorks animated movie titles, with the
2009 release of

Monsters vs. Aliens

. We have expanded our portfolio in the action/adventure genre with the launch of a new internally developed
intellectual property,

PROTOTYPE

. Further, we released

Bakugan Battle Brawlers

, which is based on the
top-rated television series and a best-selling toy.

In
2010, we plan to release a diversified lineup of games based on Activision's best-selling franchises including Call of Duty, Guitar Hero, and Tony Hawk, together with
other well-known titles such as True Crime, Spider-Man, and Bakugan, and a select number of new intellectual property franchises such asBlurandSingularity.

Product Development and Support

Activision develops and produces titles using a model in which a core group of creative, production, and technical professionals, in
coordination with our marketing and finance departments, have responsibility for the entire development and production process including the supervision and coordination of internal and external
resources. This team assembles the necessary creative elements to complete a title using, where appropriate, outside programmers, artists, animators, scriptwriters, musicians and songwriters, sound
effects and special effects experts, and sound and video
studios. Activision believes that this model allows us to supplement internal expertise with top quality external resources on an as-needed basis.









In
addition, Activision often seeks out and engages independent third-party developers to create products on our behalf. We either own these products or have unlimited rights to
commercially exploit these products. In other circumstances, a third-party developer may retain ownership of the intellectual property and/or technology included in the product and reserves certain
exploitation rights. Activision typically selects these independent third-party developers based on their expertise in developing products in a specific category for specific platforms. Each of our
third-party developers is under contract with us for specific or multiple titles. From time to time, Activision also acquires the license rights to publish and/or distribute software products that are
or will be independently created by third-party developers. In such cases, the agreements with these developers provide us with exclusive publishing and/or distribution rights for a specific period of
time, often for specified platforms and territories. In either case, Activision often has the ability to publish and/or distribute sequels, conversions, enhancements, and add-ons to the
product initially being produced by the independent developer and Activision frequently has the right to engage the services of the original developer with regard to the further product development.

In
consideration for the services that independent third-party developers provide, the developers receive a royalty, which is generally based on net sales of the developed products.
Typically, developers also receive an advance, which Activision recoups from the royalties otherwise payable to the developers. The advance generally is paid in "milestone" stages. The payment at each
stage is tied to the completion and delivery of a detailed performance milestone. Working with independent developers allows us to reduce our fixed development costs, share development risks with the
third-party developers, take advantage of the third-party developers' expertise in connection with certain categories of products or certain platforms, and gain access to proprietary development
technologies.

Activision
provides various forms of product support to both our internally and externally developed titles. Activision quality assurance personnel are involved throughout the
development and production of each title published. Activision subjects all such products to extensive testing before release to ensure compatibility with all appropriate hardware systems and
configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects found in the products. To support our products after release, Activision provides its customers online access on a
24-hour basis as well as live telephone operators who answer the help lines during regular business hours.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Activision's marketing efforts include online activities (such as the creation of World Wide Web pages to promote specific titles and
build user communities around our franchises), public relations, print and broadcast advertising, coordinated in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of
purchase displays), participation in cooperative advertising programs, direct response vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or on compact
discs. From time to time, we also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers and retailers in connection with their own promotional efforts. In addition, certain of our products contain
software that enables customers to "electronically register" their purchases with us online.

We
believe that our strong proven franchises and genres generate a loyal and devoted customer base that continues to purchase our sequels as a result of their dedication to the franchise
and satisfaction from previous product purchases. We therefore market these sequels and expansion packs toward the established market as well as to broader audiences. In addition, for marketing titles
based on licensed properties, we believe that we derive benefits from our continued marketing of these licensed properties as well as marketing and promotional activities of the property owners.

North America.Our products are available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets in North America. Our North American retail
customers
include, among others, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, Toys "R" Us, and Wal-Mart.









In
the United States ("U.S.") and Canada, our products are sold primarily on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses, and
game specialty stores. We believe that a direct relationship with retail accounts results in more effective inventory management, merchandising, and communications than would be possible through
indirect relationships. We have implemented electronic data interchange linkages with many of our retailers to facilitate the placing and shipping of orders. We also sell our products to a limited
number of distributors.

International.Our products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party distribution and
licensing arrangements, and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. We conduct our international publishing activities through offices in the United Kingdom ("U.K."), Germany,
France, Italy, Spain, Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, Australia, China, Ireland, and Singapore. We seek to maximize our worldwide revenues and profits by releasing high quality foreign language
releases concurrently with English language releases and by continuing to expand the number of direct selling relationships we maintain with key retailers in major territories.

On
a worldwide basis, our largest customers, GameStop and Wal-Mart, each accounted for approximately 10% and 11% of consolidated revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Digital Distribution.Some of our products are sold in, or only in, a digital format, which allows consumers to purchase and download
the game at
their convenience. We partner with digital distributors to leverage this growing method of distribution. We also make available to our consumer value added downloadable contents to enhance their
gaming experience through Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo's digital online services.

Affiliate Labels.In addition to our own products, we distribute a select number of interactive entertainment products that are
developed and
marketed by other third-party publishers through our "affiliate label" programs in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. The distribution of other publishers' products allows us to
increase the efficiencies of our sales force and provides us with the ability to better ensure adequate shelf presence at retail stores for all of the products that we distribute. Revenues that we
receive from distributing other publishers' titles mitigate the risk that a particular title or titles published by us fails to meet expectations. Services we provide under our affiliate label
programs include order solicitation, in-store marketing, logistics and order fulfillment, and sales channel management, as well as other accounting and general administrative functions.
Our current affiliate label partners include LucasArts, as well as several affiliate label partners in our "value" business, which offers budget-priced software to the public. Each affiliate label
relationship is unique and may pertain only to distribution in certain geographic territories and may be further limited only to specific titles or titles for specific platforms.

Manufacturing

Activision prepares a set of master program copies, documentation, and packaging materials for our products for each hardware platform
on which the product will be released. We also manufacture separate hardware peripherals, such as the guitar, drum and microphone forGuitar Hero World TourandBand
Hero, the new turntable forDJ
Hero, and the new skateboard controller forTony Hawk: Ride. With respect to products for use on the Sony, Nintendo, and
Microsoft systems, our disk and hardware peripheral duplication, packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly, and shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors and Company-owned
distribution facilities.

To
maintain protection over their hardware technologies, Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished products. We deliver the
master materials to the licensor or its approved replicator, which then manufactures finished goods and delivers them to us for distribution under our label. We use manufacturers authorized by Sony,
Nintendo, or Microsoft











to
make the hardware peripherals forGuitar Herotitles,Band Hero,DJ
Hero, andTony Hawk: Ride. At the time our product unit orders are filled by the manufacturer, we become responsible for the
costs of manufacturing and the applicable per unit royalty on such units, even if the units do not ultimately sell.

Blizzard Entertainment Segment ("Blizzard")—Business Overview

Strategy

Maintain and Build upon Our Leadership Position in the MMORPG Category and PC Online Categories.Blizzard plans to maintain and build
upon our
leadership position in the MMORPG genre by regularly providing new content and game features to further solidify the loyalty of our subscriber base, as well as to expand the global game footprint to
new markets.

We
believe that the PC online market will remain a growing category throughout the world. The large and growing PC installed base in all regions and the continuing development of
broadband connectivity
facilitates online games and community experiences while creating access to new potential customers. Given the success ofWorld of WarcraftandStarCraftin Asia, we expect to continue to be well positioned to capture the growing consumer demand in this region. Blizzard is among the few
companies with video game franchises created and developed in the U.S. that have gained and retained success in Asia. World of Warcraft and StarCraft are strong brands in Asia. Titles in those series
have been among the most played games in the region for many years and support a thriving professional gaming industry, particularly in South Korea. During 2009, Blizzard entered into licensing
arrangements forWorld of Warcraft,StarCraft II, Battle.net andWarcraft
IIIwith an affiliated company of NetEase.com, Inc. in China. Further, asWorld of Warcraftis a server-based game, only
playable online, Blizzard is one of the few companies that can target markets that have been dominated by piracy and monetize former illegitimate players as well as expand in markets that have not
been penetrated by consoles, but offer a large PC installed base.

Products

Blizzard is a leading company in the subscription-based MMORPG category.World of
Warcraftwas initially launched in November 2004 in North America, Australia, and New Zealand; and was subsequently launched in South Korea, Europe, China, Singapore, Taiwan,
Hong Kong, and Macau in 2005; Malaysia in 2006; and Thailand in 2007. As of December 31, 2009,World of Warcrafthad approximately
11.5 million active subscribers.World of Warcraftis available in various languages based on the regions in which it is played and has earned
awards and praise from publications around the world. Blizzard launched an expansion pack toWorld of Warcraft,World of
Warcraft: The Burning Crusade, in January 2007 in North America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Malaysia, and Thailand; in South Korea in February 2007; Taiwan,
Hong Kong, and Macau in April 2007; and China in September 2007. Blizzard launched the secondWorld of Warcraftexpansion pack,World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King,in November 2008 in all territories except China, where we intend to launch in 2010. Blizzard plans to launch
the third installment of theWorld of Warcraftexpansion pack,World of Warcraft: Cataclysmin 2010.
Revenues associated with theWorld of Warcraftfranchises accounted for 98%, 97%, and 97% of Blizzard's consolidated net revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.

Additionally,
in the PC online category, in 2010, Blizzard plans to releaseStarCraft II: Wings of Libertytogether with the new and
improved Battle.net, which will provide integration of gameplay and community, customer services, and digital distribution of content in 2010. Blizzard has also announced the development of a sequel
for Diablo, an action role-playing game.









Product Development and Support

As a development studio, creator and publisher of the World of Warcraft, Diablo, and StarCraft franchises, Blizzard focuses on creating
well-designed, high quality games. Product development is handled internally by a strong core group of talented designers, producers, programmers, artists, and sound engineers. To maintain
its current subscribers and attract new subscribers, Blizzard continues to develop new patches to upgradeWorld of Warcraft. In addition to its
headquarters in Irvine, California, Blizzard maintains offices in or around Austin, Texas; Paris, France; Cork, Ireland; Seoul, South Korea; Shanghai, China; and Taipei, Taiwan, to provide 24/7 game
support toWorld of Warcraftplayers in their native language, enhance online community management, and tailor marketing initiatives to specific
regions.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Blizzard distributes its product and generates revenues worldwide through various means: subscriptions (which consist of fees from
individuals playingWorld of Warcraft, prepaid cards, and other value added services such as the ability to change "factions", the ability to transfer
"realms" and the ability to purchase a virtual pet), retail sales of physical "boxed" product, electronic download sales of PC products, and licensing of software to third-party companies that
distributeWorld of Warcraftin Russia, China and Taiwan. In addition, Blizzard operates a free online game service, Battle.net, which attracts millions
of active players, making it one of the largest online-game related services in the world. Battle.net is a service that allows players to connect and play Blizzard games and strengthens
brand loyalty among current Blizzard gamers.

Activision Blizzard Distribution Segment ("Distribution")—Business Overview

We distribute interactive entertainment hardware and software products in Europe through our European distribution subsidiaries:
Centresoft in the U.K.; and NBG in Germany. These subsidiaries act as wholesalers in the distribution of products and also provide packaging, logistical and sales services. They provide services to
our publishing operations and to various third-party publishers, including Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. Centresoft is Sony's exclusive distributor of PlayStation products to the independent market
sector of the U.K.

We
entered into the distribution business to obtain distribution capacity in Europe for our own products, while supporting the distribution infrastructure with third-party sales, and to
diversify our
operations in the European market. Centresoft and our other distribution subsidiaries operate in accordance with strict confidentiality procedures to provide independent services to various
third-party publishers.

Additional Financial Information

See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 14 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments and
geographic areas. See the Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our
practices with regard to several working capital items, such as rights of returns, and inventory practices. See the Management's Overview of Business Trends under Item 7 "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business.









Available Information

Our website is located athttp://www.activisionblizzard.com. Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are available free of charge through our website. The information found on our website is not a
part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

The
public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at Station Place, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 (information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC also maintains a web site that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

