Item 1.    BUSINESS

Overview









Our
Activision business involves the development, marketing, and sale of products through retail channels or digital downloads, which are principally based on our internally developed
intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Activision continues to focus its efforts in the areas we believe have the most opportunity for growth and higher profitability, while
reducing investments in areas we believe have less profit potential and limited growth opportunities. To that end, investments are being focused on proven intellectual properties to develop deep,
high-quality content that offers engaging online gaming experiences. One of our leading franchises is Call of Duty®, which launched in 2003. Call of Duty is the best-selling Western
interactive franchise since its launch, with over $9 billion of life-to-date revenues. In 2013, Activision released the latest installment in the franchise,Call of
Duty: Ghosts™, which, in the fourth quarter of 2013, in North America and Europe combined, was the #1 best-selling game title overall and #1 best-selling game on
the next-generation PS4 and Xbox One console platforms. Activision is currently developing sequels and additional content to build on the continued success of the Call of Duty franchise and we expect
to expand the franchise into China.

While
focusing on our proven intellectual properties is one of Activision's priorities, we also continue to make strategic investments in developing new intellectual properties that we
believe have the potential to be successful in the long term. For example, in 2011, we debuted a new internally developed franchise with the release ofSkylanders Spyro's
Adventure®.We launched the first sequel,Skylanders
Giants™, in October 2012, and the newest installment,Skylanders SWAP ForceTM,
in October 2013. Games in the Skylanders™ franchise combine the use of toys with video games to deliver innovative game play experiences to our audiences. According to The NPD Group, GfK
Chart-Track, and internal estimates, the Skylanders franchise, including toys and accessories, had generated more than $2 billion in worldwide life-to-date revenues at retail as of
December 31, 2013. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie, the developer of game franchises includingHalo, MythandMarathon,and expect to release Bungie's next big action game universe,Destiny™, in
September 2014.

Blizzard
is a development studio and publisher best known as the creator of the World of Warcraft® franchise, as well as the multiple award winning
Diablo

®

and StarCraft

®

franchises. Blizzard distributes its products and
generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid subscription cards; value-added services such as realm transfers, faction changes, and other character
customizations within the

World of Warcraft

gameplay; retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC products; and licensing of
software to third-party or related party companies that distribute

World of Warcraft, Diablo III

, and

StarCraft
II

products. Blizzard has released four expansion packs to World of Warcraft—

World of Warcraft: The Burning
Crusade

®

,

World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King

®

,

World of Warcraft:
Cataclysm

®

, and

World of Warcraft: Mists of
Pandaria

®

. In July 2010, the Company launched the sequel to

StarCraft

,

StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty

®

. In conjunction with this release, Blizzard launched a new version of its 24/7
online gaming service, Battle.net, facilitating the creation of user generated content,
digital distribution and online social connectivity among

World of Warcraft, StarCraft II,

and

Diablo
III

players. Blizzard also released its first

StarCraft II

expansion pack,

StarCraft II: Heart of the
Swarm®

, in March 2013. In May 2012, Blizzard released

Diablo III

, which sold more than 12 million copies sold
worldwide through December 31, 2012. In September 2013, Blizzard released

Diablo III

for the PS3 and Xbox 360, and confirmed plans to
adapt the game for the PS4. In addition, Blizzard developed

Hearthstone™: Heroes of Warcraft™

, a free-to-play digital
collectible card game, which was released in closed beta in August 2013 and open beta in January 2014, and is currently developing

Heroes of the
Storm™

, a new free-to-play online hero brawler.

Revenues
associated with the Call of Duty, Skylanders and World of Warcraft franchises combined accounted for 80%, 72% and 73% of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.









The
Activision Blizzard Distribution ("Distribution") business consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party
publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.

The Company's Formation, Business Combination with Vivendi Games and Recently Consummated Share Repurchase from Vivendi

Activision, Inc. was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992.

On
July 9, 2008, a business combination (the "Business Combination") by and among Activision, Inc., Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Activision, Inc., Vivendi S.A. ("Vivendi"), VGAC LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi , and Vivendi Games, Inc. ("Vivendi Games"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
VGAC LLC, was consummated. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision, Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. and Vivendi became a majority
shareholder of Activision Blizzard. Activision Blizzard is a public company traded on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol "ATVI."

On
October 11, 2013, we repurchased approximately 429 million shares of our common stock, pursuant to a stock purchase agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement") we entered
into on July 25, 2013, with Vivendi and ASAC II LP ("ASAC"), an exempted limited partnership established under the laws of the Cayman Islands, acting by its general partner, ASAC
II LLC. Pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, we acquired all of the capital stock of Amber Holding Subsidiary Co., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of
Vivendi ("New VH"), which was the direct owner of approximately 429 million shares of our common stock, for a cash payment of $5.83 billion, or $13.60 per share, before taking into
account the benefit to the Company of certain tax attributes of New VH assumed in the transaction (collectively, the "Purchase Transaction"). The repurchased shares were recorded in "Treasury Stock"
in our consolidated balance sheet.

Immediately
following the completion of the Purchase Transaction, ASAC purchased from Vivendi 172 million shares of Activision Blizzard common stock, pursuant to the Stock
Purchase Agreement, for a cash payment of $2.34 billion, or $13.60 per share (the "Private Sale"). Robert A. Kotick, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, Chairman of our Board of
Directors, are affiliates of ASAC II LLC.

As
of December 31, 2013, (i) we had 704 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding, approximately 64% of which was held by the public, (ii) Vivendi
held 83 million shares, or approximately 12% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (iii) ASAC held 172 million shares, or approximately 24% of the outstanding shares
of our common stock.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to continue to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of high-quality interactive
entertainment software, online content and services that deliver highly satisfying entertainment experiences.

Continue to Improve Profitability.We continually strive to manage risk and increase our operating efficiency with the goal of
increased
profitability. We believe the key factors affecting our future profitability will be the success of proven franchises and genres, cost discipline, and our ability to benefit from the continued growth
of online and digital revenue opportunities.

Create Shareholder Value.We continue to focus on enhancing shareholder returns through profitable operations and strong cash flows. As
a result, we
expect to continue to achieve long-term growth and to deliver returns to our shareholders.









Grow Through Continued Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances.We intend to continue to evaluate the expansion of our resources and
intellectual
properties library through acquisitions, strategic relationships, and key licensing transactions. We will also continue to invest in, and build on, existing alliances and relationships. In addition,
we will continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our proven development expertise through the acquisition of, or investment in, selected experienced software development firms.

Focus on Delivery of Digital Content and Online Services.We continue to shift towards digital delivery of content and to establish and
develop
direct and long-term relationships with our gamers. We will also continue to support, maintain and enhance the online communities for our games and franchises, such as the World of Warcraft and Call
of Duty online communities. We believe that focusing our efforts on online product innovations, such as additional online content, services and social connectivity, provides lasting value to our
global communities of players. In addition, we are exploring new business models for digital delivery of content, including offering free-to-play games with monetization through in-game
microtransactions.

Competition

We compete for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers with other interactive entertainment companies, as well as with
providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment and music.

The
interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size
from small companies with limited resources to large corporations who may have greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. Due to their different focuses and
allocation of resources, certain of our competitors may spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing
policies, pay higher fees for licenses, and pay more to third-party software developers than we do. In addition, competitors with large product lines and popular titles typically have greater leverage
with retailers,
distributors, and other customers who may be willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in return for access to such competitor's most popular titles. We believe that the main competitive
factors in the interactive entertainment industry include: product features, game quality, and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access to
distribution channels; online capability and functionality; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service.

We
compete primarily with other publishers of PC, online and video game console interactive entertainment software. In addition to third-party software competitors, integrated video game
console hardware and software companies, such as Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony, compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. Further, a number of
software publishers have developed and commercialized, or are currently developing, online games for use by consumers over the Internet, and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge in the
MMORPG and microtransaction-based game categories, as well as in the growing "toys to life" category. Lastly, we compete with publishers of mobile games, who may be narrowly focused on publishing
games for handheld and mobile devices.

Employees

At December 31, 2013, we had approximately 6,900 total full-time and part-time employees. At December 31, 2013,
approximately 110 of our full-time employees were subject to fixed-term employment agreements with us. These agreements generally commit the employees to employment terms of between one and five years
from the commencement of their respective agreements. Most of









the
employees subject to these agreements are executive officers or key members of the product development, sales, or marketing divisions. These individuals perform services for us as executives,
directors, producers, associate producers, computer programmers, game designers, sales directors, or marketing product managers. In our experience, entering into employment agreements with these
employees reduces our turnover during the development, production and distribution phases of our entertainment software products and allows us to plan more effectively for future development and
marketing activities. Some employees outside of the United States are also party to employment agreements that do not specify a fixed term.

The
majority of our employees in France, Germany, Spain, and Italy are subject to collective agreements as a part of normal business practices in those countries. In addition, certain
employees in
France and Germany are subject to collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any labor-related work stoppages.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is significantly dependent on the creation, acquisition, use and protection of
intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and
to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games.

We
develop some of our products from wholly-owned intellectual properties that we create within our own studios. We also acquire the rights to include proprietary intellectual property
in our products through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain intellectual property through licenses and service agreements. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products
for specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game consoles and handheld platforms include technology that is owned by the console or wireless device manufacturer, and is licensed
non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from providers other than console manufacturers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business is dependent on our ability
to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms and at reasonable rates.

We
actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to the software code in our products. Moreover, we own or
license the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights, trademarks and patents in the United States and in other countries as appropriate.

We
often distribute our PC products using copy protection technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In
addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed products. We are actively
engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various
enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.

Significant Customers

We did not have any single customer that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2013 or 2011. We had one customer, GameStop, that accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. We had one customer,
Wal-Mart, that accounted for 24% and 20% of consolidated gross receivables at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.









Operating Segments

We have three operating segments: (i) Activision Publishing, Inc. and its subsidiaries—publishing interactive
entertainment software products and downloadable content, (ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. and its subsidiaries—publishing real-time strategy games, role-playing games and
online subscription-based games in the MMORPG category, and (iii) Activision Blizzard Distribution—distributing interactive entertainment software and hardware products. See
Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments.

Activision—Business Overview

Strategy

Create, Acquire and Maintain Strong Franchises.Activision focuses on development and publishing activities, principally for products
and content
that are, or have the potential to become, franchises with sustainable mass consumer appeal and recognition. It is our experience that these products and content can then serve as the basis for
sequels, prequels and related new products and content that can be released over an extended period of time. We believe that the publishing and distribution of products and content based on proven
franchises enhances predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and operating profits. Our successful intellectual properties include the Call of Duty and Skylanders
franchises, and we intend to continue development of owned franchises in the future. We also have an exclusive 10-year alliance with Bungie, a developer of successful game franchises, to bring
Bungie's next big action game universe,Destiny, to market.

Execute Disciplined Product Selection and Development Processes.The success of our publishing business depends, in significant part, on
our ability
to develop high-quality games that will generate high unit volume sales. Our publishing units have implemented a formal control process for the selection, development, production and quality assurance
of our products. We apply this process, which we refer to as the "Greenlight Process," to all of our products, whether they are externally or internally developed. The Greenlight Process includes
in-depth reviews of each project at several important stages of development by a team that includes many of our highest-ranking operating managers and enables coordination among our sales, marketing
and development staff at each step in the process.

We
develop our products using a combination of our internal development resources and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our external
developers based on their track records and expertise in producing products in the same category. One developer will often produce the same game for multiple platforms and will produce sequels to the
original game. We believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we
believe enhances the quality of our products and accelerates the timing of releases.

Focused Product Offerings, Diversity in Platforms and Geographies.We believe Activision has aligned its product offerings and cost
structure to
position the business for long-term growth. Through our online-enabled products and content, we believe we are best positioned to take advantage of retail and digital distribution channels that allow
us to deliver content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults and from core gamers to mass-market consumers and to "value" buyers seeking budget-priced software, in a variety of
geographies. Presently, the majority of products that we develop, publish and distribute operate on the PS4, PS3, Xbox One, Xbox 360, Wii U, and Wii console systems, and the PC.

In
addition, emerging and rapidly growing online-enabled platforms, in which we will support in-game integration and bring together online experience and gameplay, will continue to be a
focus. We typically offer our products for use on multiple platforms to reduce the risks associated with any single









platform,
spread our costs over a larger installed hardware base, and increase unit sales. We intend to continue to offer both online and packaged software and games with localized content in
different geographies.

Products

In recent years, Activision has been best known for its success in the first-person action category from its internally-developed
intellectual property, Call of Duty. The Call of Duty franchise has achieved over $9 billion life-to-date revenues and has an active global community of millions of players. Our latest release,Call of Duty:
Ghosts, was released on November 5, 2013, and, in North America and Europe combined, was the #1 best-selling title in both units
and dollars and the #1 best-selling game on the next-generation PS4 and Xbox One console platforms in the fourth quarter of 2013.

During
2013, Activision released four collections of downloadable content packs forCall of Duty: Black Ops II, as well as
micro-downloadable content which allows gamers to personalize their experience within the game. In the first quarter of 2014, we releasedOnslaught,the
first downloadable content pack forCall of Duty: Ghosts("Onslaught"), on certain platforms.

On
October 13, 2013, Activision launchedSkylanders SWAP Force, the third title in our Skylanders franchise, an
internally-developed intellectual property that combines the use of toys with video games to deliver innovative game play experiences to our audiences. Specifically, the game involves "smart toys"
consisting of action figures and an electronic "portal" which, when used together, allow a player to store and access information about each of his or her toy character's performance in the game. We
sell the toys both bundled with the software for the titles and on a stand-alone basis. According to The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and internal estimates, the Skylanders franchise, including toys
and accessories, had generated more than $2 billion in worldwide life-to-date retail sales as of December 31, 2013.

Activision
also develops products spanning other genres, including first-person action, action/adventure, role-playing, simulation and strategy.

Product Development and Support

Activision develops and produces titles using a model in which a core group of creative, production and technical professionals, in
coordination with our marketing, finance and other departments, has responsibility for the entire development and production process, including the supervision and coordination of internal and
external resources. This team assembles the necessary creative elements to complete a title using, where appropriate, outside programmers, artists, animators, scriptwriters, musicians and songwriters,
sound effects and special effects experts, and sound and video studios. Activision believes that this model allows us to supplement internal expertise with top-quality external resources on an
as-needed basis.

In
addition, Activision often engages independent third-party developers to create products on Activision's behalf. We may either own or have rights to commercially exploit these
products. In other circumstances, a third-party developer may retain ownership of the intellectual property and/or technology included in the product, or reserve certain exploitation rights with
respect thereto. Activision typically selects these independent third-party developers based on their expertise in developing products in a specific category for specific platforms. Each of our
third-party developers is under contract with us, either for a single or multiple titles. From time to time, Activision also acquires the license rights to publish and/or distribute software products
that are, or will be, independently created by third-party developers. In such cases, the agreements with these developers typically provide us with exclusive publishing and/or distribution rights for
a specific period of time, often for specified platforms and territories. In either case, Activision often has the ability to publish and/or distribute sequels, conversions, enhancements, and add-ons
to the product initially being produced by the









independent
developer and Activision frequently has the right to engage the services of the original developer with regard to further product development.

In
consideration for the services that independent third-party developers provide, the developers receive a royalty, which is generally based on net sales or operating income of the
developed products. Typically, developers also receive an advance, which Activision recoups from the royalties otherwise payable to the developers. The advance generally is paid in "milestone" stages.
The payment at each stage is tied to the completion and delivery of a detailed performance milestone. Working with independent developers allows us to reduce our fixed development costs, share
development risks with the third-party developers, take advantage of the third-party developers' expertise in connection with certain categories of products or certain platforms, and gain access to
proprietary development technologies.

In
April 2010, Activision entered into a long-term exclusive relationship with Bungie, the developer of game franchises includingHalo,
MythandMarathon,to bring Bungie's next big action game universe,Destiny, to
market. Under the terms of the agreement, Activision will have exclusive, worldwide rights to publish and distribute all future Bungie games based onDestinyon multiple platforms and devices over a
ten-year period from the first release of the franchise. Activision currently expects to releaseDestinyin September 2014.

Activision
provides various forms of product support to both our internally and externally developed titles. Activision quality assurance personnel are involved throughout the
development and production of each title published. Activision subjects all such products to extensive testing before release to ensure compatibility with all appropriate hardware systems and
configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects found in the products. To support our products after release, Activision generally provides 24-hour online access to customer
service representatives, as well as live telephone operators who answer the help lines during regular business hours.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Activision's marketing efforts include activities on the Internet (including on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other online social
networks and websites), public relations, print and broadcast advertising, coordinated in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of purchase displays), participation in
cooperative advertising programs, direct response vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or the digital online services provided by Microsoft,
Nintendo, and Sony. From time to time, we also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers, mass appeal consumer products related to a game, and retailers in connection with their own
promotional efforts. In addition, certain of our products contain software that enables customers to "electronically register" their purchases with us online, which allows us to connect with our
gamers directly.

We
believe that our strong proven franchises and genres generate a loyal and devoted customer base that continues to purchase our sequels as a result of their dedication to the franchise
and satisfaction from previous product purchases. We therefore market these sequels, expansion packs and downloadable content toward the established customer base as well as to broader audiences. In
addition, we believe that we derive benefits for our licensed properties from the marketing and promotional activities undertaken by the underlying intellectual property owners, in addition to our own
marketing efforts.

North American Sales and Distribution.Our products are available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets in North America.
Our North
American retail customers include, among others, Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, Toys "R" Us and Wal-Mart.









In
the United States ("U.S.") and Canada, our products are primarily sold on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses and game specialty
stores, as well to consumers through direct digital purchases. We believe that a direct relationship with retailers results in more effective inventory management, merchandising and communications
than would be possible through indirect relationships. We have implemented electronic data interchange linkages with many of our retailers to facilitate the placing and shipping of orders. We also
sell our products to a limited number of distributors.

International Sales and Distribution.Our products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party
distribution and
licensing arrangements, and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries, as well to consumers through direct digital purchases. We conduct our international publishing activities
through offices in the United Kingdom ("U.K."), Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, Australia and Ireland. We often seek to maximize our worldwide revenues and profits by
releasing high-quality foreign language releases concurrently with English language releases and by continuing to expand the number of direct selling relationships we maintain with key retailers in
major territories.

Digital Distribution.Online and digital distribution channels are continuing to grow. Some of our products and content are sold in a
digital format,
which allows consumers to purchase and download the content at their convenience directly to their PC, console system or wireless device. We partner with digital distributors to utilize this growing
method of distribution. We also make available to our customers value-added downloadable content to enhance their gaming experience through the digital online services provided by Microsoft, Nintendo,
and Sony. In addition, we are exploring new business models involving digital distribution, including offering free-to-play games with monetization through in-game microtransactions.

Manufacturing

Activision prepares a set of master program copies, documentation and packaging materials for our products for each hardware platform
on which the product will be released. With respect to products for use on the Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony systems, our disk duplication,
packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly and shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors and Activision-owned distribution facilities.

To
maintain protection over their hardware technologies, Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished products and license their
hardware technologies to us. We deliver the master materials to the licensor or its approved replicator, which then manufactures finished goods and delivers them to us for distribution under our
label. At the time our product unit orders are filled by the manufacturer, we become responsible for the costs of manufacturing and the applicable per unit royalty on such units, even if the units do
not ultimately sell.

Blizzard—Business Overview

Strategy

Maintain and Build upon Our Leadership Position in the Subscription-Based MMORPG Category and PC Online
Categories.Blizzard plans to maintain and build upon our leadership position in the subscription-based MMORPG category by regularly providing new content, game features and
online services to further solidify the loyalty of our subscriber base, as well as to expand our global game footprint to new geographies.

We
believe that the PC will remain a vibrant online platform throughout the world. The large global PC installed base and the continuing development of broadband connectivity facilitates
online games and community experiences while creating access to new potential customers.









Products

World of Warcraft,the leading subscription-based MMORPG, was initially launched in
November 2004 and today is available in many countries and regions including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Europe (including Russia), Mexico, New Zealand, South Korea, Southeast
Asia, the U.S., and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 7.8 million gamers worldwide were subscribed* to play Blizzard'sWorld of Warcraft.World of Warcraftis available in various languages based on the regions in which it
is played and has earned awards and praise from publications around the world. Since the first release ofWorld of Warcraft, Blizzard has launched four
expansion packs in all regions in which the game is supported. Those expansion packs areWorld of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade,which was first
available in January 2007,World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King,which was first available in November 2008, World of
Warcraft: Cataclysm, which was first available in December 2010, andWorld of Warcraft: Mists of Pandaria,which was first
available in September 2012.

In
May 2012, Blizzard releasedDiablo IIIfor the PC at retail and through digital distribution channels in Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, Europe (including Russia), Mexico, New Zealand, South Korea, Southeast Asia, the U.S., and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan. In September 2013, Blizzard releasedDiablo IIIfor
the PS3 and Xbox 360 platforms. Currently, there is an auction
house which allows players to sell items won inDiablo IIIfor real money to other players, but the auction house will be discontinued in March 2014.

Additionally,
in July 2010, Blizzard launched the sequel toStarCraft,StarCraft II: Wings of
Liberty,simultaneously around the world, including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, Europe (including Russia), Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, North America, the
Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, and the regions of Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. In conjunction with the release ofStarCraft II: Wings of
Liberty, Blizzard launched a new version of its 24/7 online gaming service, Battle.net, which provides user-generated content, digital distribution and online social
connectivity amongWorld of Warcraft,StarCraft II,andDiablo
IIIplayers. In March 2013, Blizzard released the first expansion pack toStarCraft II, StarCraft II: Heart of the Swarm.

In
August 2013, Blizzard released the closed beta version ofHearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, a free-to-play digital collectible card
game. The open beta version of the game was released in January 2014.

Product Development and Support

As a development studio and the creator and publisher of the World of Warcraft, Diablo and StarCraft franchises, Blizzard focuses on
creating well-designed, high-quality games. Product development is handled internally by a strong core group of talented designers, producers, programmers, artists, and sound engineers. To maintain
its current subscribers and attract new subscribers, Blizzard continues to develop new expansions and patches to upgradeWorld of Warcraft. In addition
to its headquarters in Irvine, California, Blizzard maintains offices in or around Austin, Texas; Paris, France; Cork, Ireland; Seoul, South Korea; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and Taipei, Taiwan to
provide 24/7 game support toWorld of Warcraftplayers in their native language, enhance online community management, and tailor marketing initiatives
to specific regions.



*World of Warcraftsubscribers include individuals who have paid a subscription fee or have an active prepaid
card to playWorld of Warcraft, as well as those who have purchased the game and are within their free month of access. Internet Game Room players who
have accessed the game over the last thirty days are also counted as subscribers. The above definition excludes all players under free promotional subscriptions, expired or cancelled subscriptions,
and expired prepaid cards. Subscribers in licensees' territories are defined along the same rules.









Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid
subscription cards; value-added services such as realm transfers, faction changes, and other character customizations within theWorld of Warcraftgameplay; retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC products; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distributeWorld of Warcraft, Diablo III,andStarCraft IIproducts. Many of our services and products are
digitally enabled, which allows us to take advantage of these rapidly growing channels and to reinforce Blizzard's long-term relationships with its gamers. In addition, Blizzard operates the online
game service, Battle.net, which attracts millions of active players, making it one of the largest online-game related services in the world. Battle.net powersDiablo
III,StarCraft II: Heart of the SwarmandWorld of Warcraft, and is expected to
power future releases. The service offers players advanced communications features, social networking, player matching and digital content delivery and is designed to allow people to connect
regardless of what Blizzard game they are playing.

Distribution—Business Overview

We distribute interactive entertainment hardware and software products in Europe through our European distribution subsidiaries:
Centresoft, in the U.K., and NBG, in Germany. These subsidiaries act as wholesalers in the distribution of products and also provide packaging, logistical and sales services. They provide services to
our publishing operations and to various third-party publishers, including Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony. Centresoft is Sony's preferred distributor of PlayStation products to the independent retail
sector of the U.K.

We
entered into the distribution business to obtain distribution capacity in Europe for our own products, while supporting the distribution infrastructure with third-party sales, and to
diversify our operations in the European market. Centresoft and our other distribution subsidiaries operate in accordance with strict confidentiality procedures to provide independent services to
various third-party publishers.

Additional Financial Information

See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 14 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments and geographic areas. See
the Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our practices with regard to
several working capital items, such as rights of returns, and inventory practices. See the Management's Overview of Business Trends under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business.

Available Information

Our website located athttp://www.activisionblizzard.comallows access free-of-charge
to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The information found on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this or any other
report that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

The
public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 (information on the operation
of the









Public
Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC also maintains a web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding
issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

