Item 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

Activision Blizzard is a worldwide online, personal computer ("PC"), console, handheld, and mobile game publisher of interactive
entertainment. Through Activision Publishing, Inc. ("Activision"), we are a leading international publisher of interactive software products and content. Activision develops and publishes video
games on various consoles, handheld platforms and the PC platform through internally developed franchises and license agreements. Activision currently offers games that operate on the Sony Computer
Entertainment Inc. ("Sony") PlayStation 3 ("PS3"), Nintendo Co. Ltd. ("Nintendo") Wii ("Wii"), and Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") Xbox 360 ("Xbox 360") console
systems; Nintendo Dual Screen ("NDS") and Nintendo DSi ("DSi") handheld devices; the PC; the Apple iPhone ("iPhone"), the Apple iPad ("iPad") and other mobile devices. Through Blizzard
Entertainment, Inc. ("Blizzard"), we are the leader in terms of subscriber base and revenues generated in the subscription-based massively multiplayer online role-playing game
("MMORPG") category.











Blizzard
internally develops and publishes PC-based computer games and maintains its proprietary online-game related service, Battle.net.

Our
Activision business involves the development, marketing, and sale of products through retail channels or digital downloads, by license or from our affiliate label program with
certain third-party publishers. Activision is focusing its efforts in the areas we believe have the most opportunity for growth and higher profitability, and we have reduced investments in areas we
believe have less profit potential and limited growth opportunities. Investments are being focused on proven intellectual properties to develop deep, high-quality content that offers
engaging online multiplayer gaming experiences. During 2010, Activision released

Call of Duty: Black-Ops

, which set new interactive
entertainment launch retail sales records with over $650 million of retail sales within five days of launch, exceeding the prior year's record-setting launch of

Call of
Duty: Modern Warfare 2,

according to our internal estimates. The

Call of Duty

franchise has provided players with a sustained
online gaming experience, and has established a large online gaming community. Activision has also recognized that new digital distribution channels have emerged that offer efficiency and convenience
for audiences and additional profit opportunities and recurring revenue models for content creators. As such, Activision is also focused on the delivery of new digital content and online services for
the

Call of Duty

franchise. In addition, Activision is currently developing sequels to build on the continued success of the

Call of Duty

franchise and we
expect to expand the

Call of Duty

franchise into China. Activision also
expects to continue to release several other titles that economically utilize key licensed intellectual properties, such as Marvel's

Spider-Man

and

X-Men

franchises, MGM/Eon's

James
Bond

franchise, Hasbro's

Transformers

franchise and the long-standing

Cabela's

hunting franchise, among others.

While
focusing on our proven intellectual properties, we are also making strategic investments to develop new intellectual property. We have established a long-term alliance
with Bungie, the developer of game franchises includingHalo, MythandMarathon,to bring Bungie's next
big action
game universe to market. We also expect to releaseSkylanders Spyro's Adventure, an innovative new game that will enable players to transport
real-world toys into the virtual worlds of a video game through the use of "smart toys."

Blizzard
is the development studio and publisher best known as the creator of

World of Warcraft

and the multiple award winning

Diablo

,

StarCraft

, and

World of Warcraft

franchises.
Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions (which consist of fees from individuals playing

World of
Warcraft,

including sales of prepaid-cards and other value-added service revenues such as realm transfers, faction changes, and other character customizations within

World of Warcraft

gameplay); retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC products; and licensing of software to third-party
or related party companies that distribute

World of Warcraft

and

StarCraft II

. Blizzard has released
three expansion packs to

World of Warcraft

—

World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade

,

World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich
King

, and the third expansion pack,

World of Warcraft: Cataclysm

,
which released in all regions other than China in December 2010. In August 2010, Blizzard released the second

World of Warcraft

expansion pack,

World of Warcraft: Wrath of the
Lich King,

in China. Also, in July 2010, the company launched the sequel to

StarCraft

,

StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty

. In
conjunction with the release of

StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty

, Blizzard launched a new version of its 24/7 online gaming service, Battle.net, facilitating the creation of user
generated content, digital distribution and online social connectivity amongst the

World of Warcraft

and

StarCraft

players. Blizzard is currently
developing a sequel in the

Diablo

franchise,

StarCraft II

's first expansion pack,

Heart of the Swarm

, and a
new massive multiplayer online ("MMO")
game.

Our
distribution business consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment
software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.









The Company

Activision, Inc. was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. As
described in the explanatory note above, Activision, Inc. consummated a business combination with Vivendi Games during the year ended December 31, 2008 and was renamed Activision
Blizzard, Inc. Activision Blizzard is a public company traded on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol "ATVI."

Our Strategy

Our objective is to continue to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of quality interactive
entertainment software, online content and services that deliver a highly satisfying entertainment experience.

Continue to Improve Profitability.We continually strive to manage risk and increase our operating leverage and efficiency with the goal
of increased
profitability. We believe the key factors affecting our future profitability will be the success of our core properties, proven franchises and genres, cost discipline, and our ability to leverage the
continued growth of online and digital revenue opportunities.

Create Shareholder Value.We continue to focus on enhancing shareholder return through growing operating margin, maintaining a strong
balance sheet
and generating strong cash flows. As a result, we expect to continue to achieve long-term growth and have been able to provide value to our shareholders through stock repurchase programs
and cash dividends.

Grow Through Continued Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances.We intend to continue to evaluate the expansion of our resources and
intellectual
properties library through acquisitions, strategic relationships, and key license transactions. We will also continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our proven development expertise through the
acquisition of, or investment in, selected experienced software development firms.

Focus on Delivery of Digital Content and Online Services.We continue to shift towards digital delivery of content and to establish and
develop
direct and long-term relationships with our gamers. We will also continue to support, maintain and enhanceWorld of WarcraftandCall of Dutyonline
communities. We believe that focusing our efforts on online product innovations, such as additional online content, services and
social connectivity provides lasting value enhancement to our global communities of players.

Competition

We compete for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers with other video game companies, as well as with other
providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment and music.

The
interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size
from small companies with limited resources to large corporations with greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. Due to their different focuses and allocation of
resources, certain of our competitors may spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher
fees to licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports and character properties, and pay more to third-party software developers. In addition, competitors with large product lines and
popular titles typically have greater leverage with retailers, distributors, and other customers who may be willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in return for access to such
competitor's most popular titles. We believe that the main competitive factors in the interactive entertainment industry include: product











features,
game quality and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access to distribution channels; online capability and functionality; ease of use;
price; marketing support; and quality of customer service.

We
compete primarily with other publishers of personal computer, online and video game console interactive entertainment software. In addition to third-party software competitors,
integrated video game console hardware and software companies, such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft, compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. In
addition, certain major media companies, such as Time Warner, Inc., which have been investing in social gaming and video game products, have increased competition within the industry. Further,
a number of software publishers have developed and commercialized, or are currently developing, online games for use by consumers over the Internet, and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge
in the MMORPG category. Lastly, we compete with mobile-game publishers for alternative handheld devices such as Apple's iPhone, Apple's iPad and other emerging mobile devices.

Employees

We had approximately 7,600 total full-time and part-time employees at December 31, 2010. At
December 31, 2010, approximately 138 of our full-time employees were subject to term employment agreements with us. These agreements generally commit the employees to employment
terms of between one and five years from the commencement of their respective agreements. Most of the employees subject to these agreements are executive officers or key members of the product
development, sales, or marketing divisions. These individuals perform services for us as executives, directors, producers, associate producers, computer programmers, game designers, sales directors,
or marketing product managers. In our experience, entering into employment agreements with these employees reduces our turnover during the development, production, and distribution phases of our
entertainment software products and allows us to plan more effectively for future development and marketing activities.

A
small number of our employees in France, Spain and Germany are subject to collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any labor-related work stoppages.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is significantly based on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection of
intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make them
run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games.

We
develop some of our products from wholly-owned intellectual properties that we create within our own studios. We also acquire the rights to include proprietary intellectual property
in our products through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain intellectual property through licenses and service agreements. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products
for specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game consoles and handheld platforms include technology that is owned by the console or wireless device manufacturer, and licensed
non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from providers other than console manufacturers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the
justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms and at
reasonable rates.

We
actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to the software code, as well as the brand or title name
trademark under











which
our products are marketed. We register copyrights, trademarks and patents in the United States and other countries as appropriate.

We
often distribute our PC products using copy protection technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In
addition, console manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed product. We are actively
engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various
enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.

Operating Segments

Activision Publishing Segment ("Activision")—Business Overview

Strategy

Create, Acquire, and Maintain Strong Franchises.Activision focuses on development and publishing activities principally for products
and content
that are, or have the potential to become, franchises with sustainable mass consumer appeal and recognition. It is our experience that these products and content can then serve as the basis for
sequels, prequels, and related new products and content that can be released over an extended period of time. We believe that the publishing and distribution of products and content based on proven
franchises enhances predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and operating profits. We own the highly successful intellectual propertyCall of
Dutyand intend to continue development of owned franchises in the future. We have entered into a series of strategic relationships with the owners of intellectual properties
pursuant to which we have acquired the rights to publish products based on franchises such as, Hasbro Properties Group ("Hasbro"), MGM Interactive and EON Productions Ltd. ("MGM & EON"),
Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel"), and Marvel Entertainment, Inc. ("Marvel"). We also have an exclusive 10-year alliance with Bungie, a developer of successful game franchises, to
bring Bungie's next big action game universe to market.

Execute Disciplined Product Selection and Development Processes.The success of our publishing business depends, in significant part,
on our ability
to develop high quality games that will generate high unit volume sales. Our publishing units have implemented a formal control process for the











selection,
development, production, and quality assurance of our products. We apply this process, which we refer to as the "Greenlight Process," to all of our products, whether externally or
internally developed. The Greenlight Process includes in-depth reviews of each project at several important stages of development by a team that includes many of our highest-ranking
operating managers and coordination among our sales, marketing and development staff at each step in the process.

We
develop our products using a combination of our internal development resources and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our external
developers based on their track records and expertise in producing products in the same category. One developer will often produce the same game for multiple platforms and will produce sequels to the
original game. We believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we
believe enhances the quality of our products and timing of releases.

Focused Product Offerings, Diversity in Platforms and Geographies.We believe Activision has aligned its product offerings and cost
structure to
position the business for long term growth. Through our online-enabled products and content, we believe we are best positioned to take advantage of retail and digital distribution channels that allow
us to deliver content to a diversity of gamers ranging from children to adults and from core gamers and mass-market consumers to "value" buyers, who seek budget-priced software, in a
variety of geographies. Presently, the majority of products that we develop, publish, and distribute operate on the PS3, Xbox 360, and Wii console systems, NDS, DSi, the iPhone, iPad, and the
PC. The emerging and rapidly growing online-enabled platforms, in which we will support in-game integration and bring together online experience and gameplay, will continue to be our
focus. We typically offer our products for use on multiple platforms to reduce the risks associated with any single platform, leverage our costs over a larger installed hardware base, and increase
unit sales. We intend to continue to offer both online and packaged software and games with localized content in different geographies.

Products

In recent years, Activision has been best known for its success in the first-person action category from theCall of Dutyoriginal
intellectual property, including the latest release,Call of Duty: Black Ops,which continues to set sell through records with over $650 million of retail sales during the first five days from launch in November 2010, according to our internal estimates. We plan on
continuing to develop this franchise.Call of Dutyhas achieved approximately $4.2 billion life-to-date revenue and has
an active global community of millions of players.Call of Duty: Black Ops, released in the fourth quarter of 2010, is also setting online usage records
that illustrate the game has become one of the leading global entertainment experiences of all time. Activision also develops products spanning other genres, including first person action,
action/adventure, role-playing, simulation and strategy.

In
2011, we expect to continue to build on the success of ourCall of Dutyfranchise. In the first quarter of calendar year 2011,
Activision Publishing releasedCall of Duty: Black Ops First Strike,the first add-on map pack forCall of Duty:
BlackOps. The map pack launched on Xbox Live on February 1, 2011 and will be available on PS3 and the PC later in the quarter. Activision is also focused on the
delivery of new digital content and online services for theCall of Dutyfranchise. We also expect to introduceSkylanders
Spyro's Adventure,an innovative new game that will enable players to transport
real-world toys into the virtual worlds of a video game through the use of "smart toys". Additionally, we expect to release several other titles including two movie-based titles
(X-Men: First ClassandTransformers: Dark of the Moon)and games based on the
best-sellingSpider-Manfranchise, the toyBakugan, the TV showsWipe OutandFamily
Guy, as well as the long-standingCabela'shunting franchise.









Product Development and Support

Activision develops and produces titles using a model in which a core group of creative, production, and technical professionals, in
coordination with our marketing and finance departments, have responsibility for the entire development and production process including the supervision and coordination of internal and external
resources. This team assembles the necessary creative elements to complete a title using, where appropriate, outside programmers, artists, animators, scriptwriters, musicians and songwriters, sound
effects and special effects experts, and sound and video studios. Activision believes that this model allows us to supplement internal expertise with top quality external resources on an
as-needed basis.

In
addition, Activision often engages independent third-party developers to create products on Activision's behalf. We either own these products or have rights to commercially exploit
these products. In other circumstances, a third-party developer may retain ownership of the intellectual property and/or technology included in the product and reserve certain exploitation rights.
Activision typically selects these independent third-party developers based on their expertise in developing products in a specific category for specific platforms. Each of our third-party developers
is under contract with us, either for a single or multiple titles. From time to time, Activision also acquires the license rights to publish and/or distribute software products that are or will be
independently created by third-party developers.
In such cases, the agreements with these developers provide us with exclusive publishing and/or distribution rights for a specific period of time, often for specified platforms and territories. In
either case, Activision often has the ability to publish and/or distribute sequels, conversions, enhancements, and add-ons to the product initially being produced by the independent
developer and Activision frequently has the right to engage the services of the original developer with regard to the further product development.

In
consideration for the services that independent third-party developers provide the developers receive a royalty, which is generally based on net sales or operating income of the
developed products. Typically, developers also receive an advance, which Activision recoups from the royalties otherwise payable to the developers. The advance generally is paid in "milestone" stages.
The payment at each stage is tied to the completion and delivery of a detailed performance milestone. Working with independent developers allows us to reduce our fixed development costs, share
development risks with the third-party developers, take advantage of the third-party developers' expertise in connection with certain categories of products or certain platforms, and gain access to
proprietary development technologies.

In
April 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive 10-year relationship with Bungie, the developer of game franchises includingHalo,
MythandMarathon,to bring Bungie's next big action game universe to market. Under the terms of the agreement, Activision will
have exclusive, worldwide rights to publish and distribute all future Bungie games based on the new intellectual property on multiple platforms and devices.

Activision
provides various forms of product support to both our internally and externally developed titles. Activision quality assurance personnel are involved throughout the
development and production of each title published. Activision subjects all such products to extensive testing before release to ensure compatibility with all appropriate hardware systems and
configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects found in the products. To support our products after release, Activision provides its customers online access on a
24-hour basis as well as live telephone operators who answer the help lines during regular business hours.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Activision's marketing efforts include activities on the Internet (including on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and other online social
networks and websites), public relations, print and broadcast











advertising,
coordinated in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of purchase displays), participation in cooperative advertising programs, direct response
vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or the digital online services provided by Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo. From time to time, we also
receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers, mass appeal consumer products related to a game, and retailers in connection with their own promotional efforts. In addition, certain of our
products contain software that enables customers to "electronically register" their purchases with us online.

We
believe that our strong proven franchises and genres generate a loyal and devoted customer base that continues to purchase our sequels as a result of their dedication to the franchise
and satisfaction from previous product purchases. We therefore market these sequels, expansion packs and downloadable content toward the established customer base as well as to broader audiences. In
addition, we believe that we derive benefits from our continued marketing of licensed properties, as well as marketing and promotional activities of the intellectual property owners.

North American Sales and Distribution.Our products are available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets in North America.
Our North
American retail customers include, among others, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, Toys "R" Us, and Wal-Mart.

In
the United States ("U.S.") and Canada, our products are sold on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses and game
specialty stores. We believe that a direct relationship with retail accounts results in more effective inventory management, merchandising, and communications than would be possible through indirect
relationships. We have implemented electronic data interchange linkages with many of our retailers to facilitate the placing and shipping of orders. We also sell our products to a limited number of
distributors.

International Sales and Distribution.Our products are sold internationally on a
direct-to-retail basis, through third-party distribution and licensing arrangements, and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. We conduct our
international publishing activities through offices in the United Kingdom ("U.K."), Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, Australia and Ireland. We often seek to maximize our
worldwide revenues and profits by releasing high-quality foreign language releases concurrently with English language releases and by continuing to expand the number of direct selling
relationships we maintain with key retailers in major territories.

On
a worldwide basis, our largest customer, GameStop, accounted for approximately 12% of consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Two of our customers,
GameStop and Wal-Mart, each accounted for approximately 10% and 11% of consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Digital Distribution.Online and digital distribution channels are emerging rapidly and growing. Some of our products and content are
sold in a
digital format, which allows consumers to purchase and download the content at their convenience directly to their PC, console systems or wireless devices. We partner with digital distributors to
leverage this growing method of distribution. We also make available to our customers value-added downloadable content to enhance their gaming experience through the digital online services provided
by Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo.

Affiliate Labels.In addition to our own products, we distribute a select number of interactive entertainment products that are
developed and
marketed by other third-party publishers through our "affiliate label" programs in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. The distribution of other publishers' products allows us to
increase the efficiencies of our sales force and provides us with the ability to better ensure adequate shelf presence at retail stores for all of the products that we distribute. Services we provide
under our affiliate label programs include order solicitation, in-store marketing, logistics and order fulfillment, and sales channel management, as well as other accounting and general
administrative functions. Our current affiliate label partners include LucasArts, as well as











several
affiliate label partners in our "value" business, which offers budget-priced software to the public. Each affiliate label relationship is unique and may pertain only to distribution in certain
geographic territories and may be further limited only to a specific title or titles for specific platforms.

Manufacturing

Activision prepares a set of master program copies, documentation, and packaging materials for our products for each hardware platform
on which the product will be released. With respect to products for use on the Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft systems, our disk duplication, packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly,
and shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors and Company-owned distribution facilities.

To
maintain protection over their hardware technologies, Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished products. We deliver the
master materials to the licensor or its approved replicator, which then manufactures finished goods and delivers them to us for distribution under our label. At the time our product unit orders are
filled by the manufacturer, we become responsible for the costs of manufacturing and the applicable per unit royalty on such units, even if the units do not ultimately sell.

Blizzard Entertainment Segment ("Blizzard")—Business Overview

Strategy

Maintain and Build upon Our Leadership Position in the MMORPG Category and PC Online
Categories.Blizzard plans to maintain and build upon our leadership position in the MMORPG genre by regularly providing new content, game features and online services to
further solidify the loyalty of our subscriber base, as well as to expand our global game footprint to new geographies.

We
believe that the PC online platform will remain a growing category throughout the world. The large and growing PC installed base in all regions and the continuing development of
broadband connectivity facilitates online games and community experiences while creating access to new potential customers. Given the success ofWorld of
WarcraftandStarCraftin Asia, we expect to continue to be well positioned to capture the growing consumer demand in this
region. Blizzard is among the few companies with video game franchises created and developed in the U.S. that have gained and retained success in Asia with World of Warcraft and StarCraft. Titles in
those series have been among the most
played games in the region for many years. During 2009, Blizzard entered into licensing arrangements forWorld of Warcraft,StarCraft II, Battle.net andWarcraft IIIwith an affiliated company of NetEase.com, Inc. in
China. Further, asWorld of Warcraftis a server-based game, only playable online, Blizzard is one of the few companies that can target markets that
have been dominated by piracy and monetize former illegitimate players as well as expand in markets that have not been penetrated by consoles, but offer a large PC installed base.

Products

Blizzard is a leading company in the subscription-based MMORPG category.World of
Warcraftwas initially launched in November 2004 and today is available in North America, Europe (including Russia), Southeast Asia, China, Korea, Australia, New Zealand,
Malaysia, Singapore, Chile, Brazil,











Argentina,
and the regions of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau. As of December 31, 2010, more than 12 million gamers worldwide were subscribed* to play Blizzard'sWorld of Warcraft.World of Warcraftis



*World of Warcraftsubscribers are defined to include: (1) individuals who have paid a subscription fee
or have an active prepaid card to playWorld of Warcraft, (2) those who have purchased the game and are within their free month of access, and
(3) Internet Game Room players who have accessed the game over the last thirty days. The definition of subscribers does not include any players under free promotional subscriptions, expired or
cancelled subscriptions, or expired prepaid cards.available
in various languages based on the regions in which it is played and has earned awards and praise from publications around the world. Blizzard launched an expansion pack toWorld of Warcraft,World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade, in January 2007 in North America, Europe,
Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Malaysia, and Thailand; in South Korea in February 2007; in Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau in April 2007; and in China in September 2007. Blizzard launched the secondWorld of
Warcraftexpansion pack,World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King,in November 2008 in all
territories except China, where it launched in August 2010. On December 7, 2010, Blizzard launched the thirdWorld of Warcraftexpansion pack,World of Warcraft:
Cataclysm, in all regions in which the game is supported, other than China. Revenues associated with theWorld of Warcraftfranchises accounted for 89%, 98%, and 97% of
Blizzard's consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009,
and 2008, respectively.

Additionally,
in July 2010, Blizzard launched the sequel to StarCraft,StarCraft II: Wings of Libertysimultaneously around the world,
including in North America, Europe (including Russia), Southeast Asia, Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Chile, Brazil, Argentina, and the regions of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau. In conjunction with the
release ofStarCraft II: Wings of Liberty, Blizzard launched a new version of its 24/7 online gaming service, Battle.net, providing user generated
content, digital distribution and online social connectivity amongst theWorld of WarcraftandStarCraftplayers. Blizzard is currently developing a sequel in theDiablofranchise,StarCraft II's first
expansion pack,Heart of the Swarm, and a new MMO game.

Product Development and Support

As a development studio, creator and publisher of theWorld of Warcraft,Diablo, andStarCraftfranchises, Blizzard focuses on creating well-designed, high quality
games. Product development is handled internally by a strong core group of talented designers, producers, programmers, artists, and sound engineers. To maintain its current subscribers and attract new
subscribers, Blizzard continues to develop new patches to upgradeWorld of Warcraft. In addition to its headquarters in Irvine, California, Blizzard
maintains offices in or around Austin, Texas; Paris, France; Cork, Ireland; Seoul, South Korea; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and Taipei, Taiwan to provide 24/7 game support toWorld of Warcraftplayers
in their native language, enhance online community management, and tailor marketing initiatives to specific regions.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means: subscriptions (which consist of fees from
individuals playingWorld of Warcraft, prepaid cards, and other value-added services such as the ability to change "factions", the ability to transfer
"realms" and other character customizations), retail sales of physical "boxed" product, online download sales of PC products, and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that
distributeWorld of WarcraftandStarCraft II. Many of its services and products are digitally enabled,
which allows us to take advantage of this emerging and rapidly growing channel and to reinforce Blizzard's long-term relationships with its gamers. In addition, Blizzard operates the
online game service, Battle.net, which attracts millions of active players, making it one of the largest online-game related services in the











world.
Battle.net powers Blizzard'sStarCraft II: Wings of LibertyandWorld of Warcraft, and is
expected to power future releases from Blizzard. The service offers players advanced communications features, social networking, player matching and digital content delivery and is designed to allow
people to connect regardless of what Blizzard game they are playing.

Activision Blizzard Distribution Segment ("Distribution")—Business Overview

We distribute interactive entertainment hardware and software products in Europe through our European distribution subsidiaries:
Centresoft in the U.K. and NBG in Germany. These subsidiaries act as wholesalers in the distribution of products and also provide packaging, logistical and sales services. They provide services to our
publishing operations and to various third-party publishers, including Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. Centresoft is Sony's preferred distributor of PlayStation products to the independent retail
sector of the U.K.

We
entered into the distribution business to obtain distribution capacity in Europe for our own products, while supporting the distribution infrastructure with third-party sales, and to
diversify our operations in the European market. Centresoft and our other distribution subsidiaries operate in accordance with strict confidentiality procedures to provide independent services to
various third-party publishers.

Additional Financial Information

See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 14 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments and
geographic areas. See the Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our
practices with regard to several working capital items, such as rights of returns, and inventory practices. See the Management's Overview of Business Trends under Item 7 "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business.

Available Information

Our website is located athttp://www.activisionblizzard.com. Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are available free of charge through our website. The information found on our website is not a
part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

The
public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 (information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC also maintains a web site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.











