Item 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and
distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers ("PC"), and mobile devices. We also operate esports events and leagues
and create film and television content based on our games. The terms "Activision Blizzard," the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and
its subsidiaries.

The
Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In connection with the 2008 business combination (the "Business
Combination") by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. ("Vivendi"), and Vivendi Games, Inc. ("Vivendi Games"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary
of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.

The
common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol "ATVI."









The King Acquisition

On February 23, 2016 (the "King Closing Date"), we acquired King Digital Entertainment, a leading interactive mobile entertainment
company ("King"), by purchasing all of its outstanding shares (the "King Acquisition"). We made this acquisition because we believed that the addition of King's highly complementary mobile business
positioned us as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console, and PC platforms, and aligned us for future growth. The aggregate purchase price of approximately
$5.8 billion was funded with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. King's results of operations since the King Closing Date
are included in our consolidated financial statements.

Our Strategy and Vision

Our objective is to continue to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of high-quality interactive entertainment
content and services, as well as related media, that deliver engaging entertainment experiences on a year-round basis. In pursuit of this
objective we focus on three strategic pillars: expanding audience reach; driving deep consumer engagement; and providing more opportunities for player investment.

Expanding audience reach.Building on our strong established franchises and creating new franchises through compelling new content is at
the core of
our business. We endeavor to reach as many consumers as possible either through: (1) the purchase of our content and services; (2) engagement in our free-to-play games, which allow
consumers to play games with no up-front cost but provide for player investment through sales of downloadable content or via microtransactions; or (3) engagement in other types of media based
on our franchises, such as esports and film and television content.

Driving deep consumer engagement.Our high-quality entertainment content not only expands our audience reach, but it also drives deep
engagement with
our franchises. We design our games, as well as related media, to provide a depth of content that keeps consumers engaged for a long period of time following a game's release, delivering more value to
our players and additional growth opportunities for our franchises.

Providing more opportunities for player investment.Increasingly, our consumers are connected to our games online through consoles, PCs,
 and mobile
devices. This allows us to offer additional digital player investment opportunities directly to our consumers on a year-round basis. In addition to purchasing full games or subscriptions, players can
invest in certain of our games and franchises by purchasing incremental "in-game" content (including larger downloadable content or smaller content, via microtransactions). These digital revenue
streams tend to be recurring and have relatively higher profit margins. Further, if executed properly, additional player investment can increase engagement as it provides more frequent and incremental
content for our players. In addition, we believe there is an opportunity for advertising within certain of our franchises, as well as opportunities to drive new forms of player investment through
esports, film and television, and consumer products. We are in the early stages of developing these new revenue streams.

Our
strategy is ultimately aimed at creating shareholder value and enhancing returns. We strive to increase profitability, cash flows, and return on capital—and to do so
while keeping our company a great place to work for our employees.

Reportable Segments

As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure such
that the Major League Gaming ("MLG") business now operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. ("Blizzard"). As such, commencing with the









second
quarter of 2017, MLG, which was previously a separate operating segment, is now a component of the Blizzard operating segment. MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch
League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.

Based
upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments as follows:

(i)    Activision Publishing, Inc.

Activision Publishing, Inc. ("Activision"), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content,
particularly for the console platform. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party
or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed
properties. We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.

Activision's
key product franchises include: Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms, and Destiny, an online universe of first-person action
gameplay (which we call a "shared-world shooter") for the console and PC platforms. Call of Duty, Activision's leading franchise, has been the number one console franchise globally for eight of the
last nine years, based on data from The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and GSD, and our internal estimates.

(ii)   Blizzard Entertainment, Inc.

Blizzard is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform. Blizzard
primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that
distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content, along with
Activision'sDestiny 2PC content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content. As noted above, Blizzard also includes the
activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other
Activision Blizzard esports content.

Blizzard's
key product franchises include: World of Warcraft®, a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game ("MMORPG") for PC; StarCraft®, a
real-time strategy PC franchise; Diablo®, an action role-playing franchise for the PC and console platforms; Hearthstone®, an online collectible card franchise for the PC and
mobile platforms; Heroes of the Storm®, a free-to-play team brawler for PC; and Overwatch®, a team-based first-person shooter for the PC and console platforms. World of
Warcraft, which was initially launched in November 2004, is the leading subscription-based MMORPG in the world.

(iii)  King Digital Entertainment

King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on mobile platforms, such as Google Inc.'s
("Google") Android and Apple Inc.'s ("Apple") iOS. King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook, Inc. ("Facebook"). King's games are free to
play, however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency the players purchase or directly using real currency.









King's
key product franchises, all of which are for the mobile and PC platforms, include: Candy Crush™, which features "match three" games; Farm Heroes™, which
also features "match three" games; and Bubble Witch™, which features "bubble shooter" games. King had two of the top 10 highest-grossing titles in the U.S. mobile app stores for the last
quarters in a row, according to App Annie Intelligence and internal estimates for the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store combined.

Other

We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including:

•the Activision Blizzard Studios ("Studios") business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of
globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in October 2017, released the second season of the animated TV seriesSkylanders™
Academyon Netflix; and•the Activision Blizzard Distribution ("Distribution") business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and
sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.

Products

We develop interactive entertainment content and services, principally for console, PC, and mobile devices, and we market and sell our games
through retail and digital distribution channels. Our products span various genres, including first-person shooter, action/adventure, role-playing, strategy, and "match three," among others. We
primarily offer the following products and services:

•full-games, which typically provide access to main game content, primarily for console or PC;•downloadable content, which provides players with additional in-game content to purchase following the purchase of a full game;•microtransactions, which typically provide relatively small pieces of additional in-game content or enhancements to gameplay, generally at
relatively low price points; and•subscriptions for players in our World of Warcraft franchise that provide for continual access to the game content.

Providing
additional opportunities for player investment outside of full-game purchases has allowed us to shift from our historical seasonality to a more consistently recurring and
year-round revenue model. In addition, if executed properly, it allows us to increase player engagement as it provides more frequent and incremental content for our players.

Product Development and Support

We focus on developing enduring franchises backed by well-designed, high-quality games with regular content updates. We build interactive
entertainment content with the potential for broad reach, sustainable engagement and year-round player investment. It is our experience that enduring franchises then serve as the basis for sequels,
prequels and related new products and content that can be released over an extended period of time. We believe that the development and distribution of products and content based on proven franchises
enhances predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and operating profits. We intend to continue development of owned franchises in the future.









We
develop and produce our titles using a model in which a group of creative, technical, and production professionals, including designers, producers, programmers, artists, and sound
engineers, in coordination with our marketing, finance, analytics, sales, and other professionals, has responsibility for the entire development and production process, including the supervision and
coordination of internal and, where appropriate, external resources. We believe this model allows us to deploy the best resources for a given task, by supplementing our internal expertise with
top-quality external resources on an as-needed basis.

While
most of the content for our franchises is developed by internal studios, we periodically engage independent third-party developers to create content on our behalf. From time to
time, we also acquire the license rights to publish and/or distribute software products that are, or will be, independently created by third-party developers. Since 2010, Activision has been in a
long-term exclusive relationship with Bungie, the developer of game franchises including Halo, Myth, and Marathon, to publish games in the Destiny franchise. During the term of the agreement,
Activision has exclusive, worldwide rights to publish and distribute on multiple platforms all future Bungie games based on Destiny.

We
provide various forms of product support. Central technology and development teams review, assess, and provide support to products throughout the development process. Quality
assurance personnel are also involved throughout the development and production of published content. We subject all such content to extensive testing before public release to ensure compatibility
with appropriate hardware systems and configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects found in the products. To support our content, we generally provide 24-hour game support to
players through various means, primarily online and by telephone.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Many of our products contain software that enables us to connect with our gamers directly. This provides a significant marketing tool that
allows us to communicate and market directly to our customers, including through customized advertising and in-game messaging based on customer preferences and trends. Our marketing efforts also
include activities on Facebook, Twitter, Twitch, YouTube and other online social networks, other online advertising, other public relations activity, print and broadcast advertising, coordinated
in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of purchase displays), participation in cooperative advertising programs, direct response vehicles, and product sampling through
demonstration software distributed through the Internet or the digital online services provided by our partners. From time to time, we also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers,
producers of consumer products related to a game, and retailers in connection with their own promotional efforts, as well as co-marketing from promotional partners.

Our
physical products are available for sale in outlets around the world. These products are sold primarily on a direct basis to mass-market retailers (e.g., Target, Wal-Mart),
consumer electronics stores (e.g., Best Buy), discount warehouses, game specialty stores (e.g., GameStop), and other stores (e.g., Amazon) or through third-party distribution and
licensing arrangements.

Most
of our products and content are also available in a digital format, which allows consumers to purchase and download the content at their convenience directly to their console, PC,
or mobile device through our platform partners, including Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft"), Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. ("Sony"), Apple, Google, Nintendo Co., Ltd.
("Nintendo"), and Facebook. Blizzard utilizes its proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net, to distribute most of Blizzard's content directly to PC consumers.

In
addition to serving as a distribution platform, Blizzard Battle.net offers players communications features, social networking, player matching and digital content delivery and is
designed to allow people









to
connect regardless of which of our games on Blizzard Battle.net they are playing. It attracts millions of active players, making it one of the largest online game-related services in the world.

Manufacturing

We prepare master program copies for our products on each release platform. With respect to products for Microsoft, Sony, and Nintendo consoles,
our disk duplication, packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly and shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors or distribution facilities owned by us.

Microsoft,
Sony, and Nintendo generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished products and license their hardware technologies to us for which we pay an
applicable royalty per unit once the manufacturer fills the product order, even if the units do not ultimately sell. We deliver the master materials to the licensor or its approved replicator, who
then manufactures the finished goods and delivers them to us for distribution under our label.

Significant Customers and Top Franchises

Customers

While the Company does sell directly to end consumers in certain instances, such as sales through Blizzard's proprietary online gaming service
platform, Blizzard Battle.net, in other instances our customers may be platform providers, such as Sony, Microsoft, Google, and Apple, or retailers, such as Wal-Mart and GameStop, who act as
distributors of our content to end consumers. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had three customers—Apple, Sony, and Google—who accounted for 16%, 14%, and 10%,
respectively, of net revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we had two customers—Sony and Apple—who each accounted for 13% of net revenues. For the year ended
December 31, 2015, we had two customers—Sony and Microsoft—who accounted for 12% and 10%, respectively, of net revenues.

We
had three customers—Sony, Microsoft, and Apple—who accounted for 17%, 14%, and 10%, respectively, of consolidated gross receivables at December 31,
2017. We had three customers—Sony, Microsoft, and Wal-Mart—who accounted for 17%, 10%, and 10%, respectively, of consolidated gross receivables at December 31, 2016.

Top Franchises

For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our top four franchises—Call of Duty, Candy Crush, World of Warcraft, and
Overwatch—collectively accounted for 66% and 69% of our net revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our top four franchises—Call of Duty, World of
Warcraft, Destiny, and Hearthstone—collectively accounted for 75% of our net revenues.

Competition

We compete for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers with other interactive entertainment companies, as well as with
providers of different forms of entertainment, such as film, television, social networking, music and other consumer products.

The
interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. We believe that the main
competitive factors in the interactive entertainment industry include: product features, game quality, and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access
to distribution channels; online capability and functionality; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service.









We
compete with other publishers of video game console, PC, and mobile interactive entertainment software. In addition to third-party software competitors, integrated video game console
hardware and software companies, such as Microsoft, Sony, and Nintendo, compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. A number of software publishers
have developed and commercialized, or are currently developing, online games for use by consumers.

Intellectual Property

Like other interactive entertainment companies, our business is significantly dependent on the creation, acquisition, use and protection of
intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop and run our
games. Other intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games.

We
develop a majority of our products based on wholly-owned intellectual properties, such as Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush, among others. In other cases, we obtain
intellectual
property through licenses and service agreements, such as for our Destiny franchise. Further, our products that play on consoles and mobile platforms include technology that is owned by the platform
provider and is licensed non-exclusively to us for use in the relevant product. We also license technology from providers other than console manufacturers in developing our content and services. While
we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms and at
reasonable rates.

We
are actively engaged in enforcement of our copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret rights against potential infringers of those rights along with other protective activities,
including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies and participating in various enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world. For our PC
products, we use technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. For other platforms, the platform providers typically incorporate technological
protections and other security measures in their platforms to prevent the use of unlicensed products on those platforms.

Executive Officers

Our executive officers and their biographical summaries are provided below:



NameAgePositionRobert A. Kotick54Chief Executive Officer of Activision BlizzardCollister Johnson41President and Chief Operating Officer of Activision BlizzardDennis Durkin47Chief Corporate Officer of Activision BlizzardSpencer Neumann48Chief Financial Officer of Activision BlizzardEric Hirshberg49President and Chief Executive Officer of ActivisionMichael Morhaime50President and Chief Executive Officer of BlizzardBrian Stolz42Chief People Officer of Activision BlizzardChristopher Walther51Chief Legal Officer of Activision BlizzardRiccardo Zacconi50Chief Executive Officer of King

Robert A. Kotick, Chief Executive Officer of Activision Blizzard

Robert A. Kotick has been a director of Activision Blizzard since February 1991, following his purchase of a significant interest in the
Company, which was then on the verge of insolvency. Mr. Kotick was our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from February 1991 until July 2008, when









he
became our President and Chief Executive Officer in connection with the Business Combination. Mr Kotick served as our President from July 2008 until June 2017, when Mr. Johnson began
serving as our President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Kotick remains the Chief Executive Officer of Activision Blizzard. Mr. Kotick is also a member of the board of directors of The
Coca-Cola Company, a multinational beverage corporation, and the boards of trustees for The Center for Early Education and the Harvard-Westlake School. He is also vice chairman of the board and
chairman of the committee of trustees of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. In addition, Mr. Kotick is the founder and co-chairman of the Call of Duty Endowment, a nonprofit, public benefit
corporation that seeks to help organizations that provide job placement and training services for veterans.

Collister Johnson, President and Chief Operating Officer of Activision Blizzard

Collister "Coddy" Johnson has served as our President and Chief Operating Officer since June 2017. Prior to that, he served as the chief
operating officer and co-founder of Altschool, a public benefit, education technology company, from April 2016 until May 2017. Prior to joining Altschool, he held a number of positions of increasing
responsibility at the Company from 2008 to 2016, serving as the chief financial officer and head of operations of Activision, one of our principal operating units, chief operating officer of
Activision studios, and senior vice president and chief of staff to our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Johnson holds a B.A. degree in ethics, politics and economics from Yale University and an
M.B.A. degree from Stanford University.

Dennis Durkin, Chief Corporate Officer of Activision Blizzard

Dennis Durkin became our Chief Corporate Officer in June 2017. Prior to this, Mr. Durkin served as our Chief Financial Officer since
joining the Company in March 2012. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Durkin held a number of positions of increasing responsibility at Microsoft Corporation, a computing hardware and software
manufacturer, most recently serving as the corporate vice president and chief operating and financial officer of Microsoft Corporation's interactive entertainment business, which included the Xbox
console business. Prior to joining Microsoft Corporation's interactive entertainment business in 2006, Mr. Durkin worked on Microsoft Corporation's corporate development and strategy team,
including two years where he was based in London, England, driving pan-European activity. Before joining Microsoft Corporation, Mr. Durkin was a financial analyst at Alex. Brown and Company.
Mr. Durkin holds a B.A. degree in government from Dartmouth College and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard University.

Spencer Neumann, Chief Financial Officer of Activision Blizzard

Spencer Neumann has served as our Chief Financial Officer since May 2017. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Neumann held a number of
positions of increasing responsibility at The Walt Disney Company, most recently serving as the chief financial officer and executive vice president of Global Guest Experience of Walt Disney Parks and
Resorts, from 2012 until May 2017. From 2005 to 2012, Mr. Neumann worked at the private equity firms of Providence Equity Partners and Summit Partners. Prior to that, Mr. Neumann held
several other roles with Disney, which he initially joined in 1992, including executive vice president of the ABC Television Network from 2001 to 2004 and chief financial officer of the Walt Disney
Internet Group from 1999 to 2001. He is also a member of the national board of directors of Make-A-Wish America. Mr. Neumann holds a B.A. degree in economics from Harvard University and an
M.B.A. degree from Harvard University.

Eric Hirshberg, President and Chief Executive Officer of Activision

Eric Hirshberg became the President and Chief Executive Officer of Activision in September 2010. Prior to joining us, Mr. Hirshberg
served in positions of increasing responsibility with Deutsch LA, a marketing and advertising agency, most recently serving as its co-chief executive officer and its chief









creative
officer. Prior to working at Deutsch LA, Mr. Hirshberg worked at Fattal & Collins, a marketing and advertising agency. Mr. Hirshberg holds a B.F.A. degree from the
University of California at Los Angeles.

Michael Morhaime, President and Chief Executive Officer of Blizzard

Michael Morhaime became Chief Executive Officer of Blizzard and an executive officer of Activision Blizzard in July 2008 in connection with the
Business Combination. Mr. Morhaime co-founded Blizzard in February 1991, and transitioned to the role of Blizzard's President in April 1998. Mr. Morhaime served on the executive
committee of Vivendi Games from January 1999, when Blizzard became a subsidiary of Vivendi Games, until the consummation of the Business Combination, when Blizzard became a subsidiary of the Company.
Mr. Morhaime holds a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from the University of California at Los Angeles.

Brian Stolz, Chief People Officer of Activision Blizzard

Brian Stolz became our Chief People Officer in May 2016. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Stolz served as senior vice president of the
neurology, dental, and generics businesses of Valeant Pharmaceuticals, a pharmaceutical company. Before that, Mr. Stolz served as Valeant's executive vice president of administration and its
chief human capital officer. Prior to joining Valeant, Mr. Stolz held positions as a principal at ghSMART, a leadership consulting and advisory firm, and as an associate principal at
McKinsey & Co., a strategy consulting firm. Mr. Stolz holds a B.S. degree in finance from Georgetown University and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard University.

Christopher Walther, Chief Legal Officer of Activision Blizzard

Christopher Walther became our Chief Legal Officer in November 2009 and served as our Secretary from February 2010 until February 2011. Prior to
joining us, Mr. Walther held a number of positions of increasing responsibility within the legal department of The Procter & Gamble Company from 1992 to 2009, including serving as the
general counsel for Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, general counsel for Northeast Asia and, most recently, as general counsel for Western Europe. Mr. Walther also led
Procter & Gamble's corporate and securities and mergers and acquisitions practices. Before joining Procter & Gamble, Mr. Walther served as a law clerk for Senior Judge Harry W.
Wellford of the United States Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. Since 2012, Mr. Walther has served on the board of directors of the Alliance for Children's Rights. Mr. Walther has also
served as our representative on the board of directors of the Entertainment Software Association since 2013. Mr. Walther holds a B.A. degree in history and Spanish from Centre College and a
J.D. degree from the University of Kentucky College of Law.

Riccardo Zacconi, Chief Executive Officer of King

Riccardo Zacconi serves as the Chief Executive Officer of King and became an executive officer of Activision Blizzard in February 2016 in
connection with the King Acquisition. Mr. Zacconi co-founded King in March 2003, and has served as its chief executive officer since its founding. Prior to founding King, Mr. Zacconi
served as vice president of European sales and marketing at uDate.com, an online dating service, from 2002 until that company's acquisition later that year. From 2001 to 2002, Mr. Zacconi
served as entrepreneur in residence at Benchmark Capital Partners, a venture capital firm. Prior to joining Benchmark Capital, he was managing director for Spray Network, an online messaging portal
based in Hamburg, Germany, from 1999 until its sale in 2000. Prior to 1999, Mr. Zacconi served in various investment and consulting positions of increasing responsibility with The Boston
Consulting Group and LEK Consulting, both of which are management consulting firms. Mr. Zacconi holds a B.A. degree in economics from LUISS University in Italy.









Employees

At December 31, 2017, we had approximately 9,800 total full-time and part-time employees. At December 31, 2017, approximately 175
of our full-time employees were subject to fixed-term employment agreements with us.

The
majority of our employees in France, Germany, Spain, and Italy are subject to collective agreements as a part of normal business practices in those countries. In addition, certain
employees in those countries are subject to collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any labor-related work stoppages.

Additional Financial Information

See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 13 of the notes to
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments and geographic areas. See the
Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our practices with regard to
several working capital items, such as rights of return. See the "Management's Overview of Business Trends" under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information
regarding product development expense during the past three years.

Available Information

Our website, located at https://www.activisionblizzard.com, allows free-of-charge access to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The information found on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this or any other report that we file with or
furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

Our
SEC filings are also available to the public over the Internet at the SEC's website at https://www.sec.gov. Additionally, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the
SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.









