Item 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

Activision Blizzard is a worldwide publisher of online, personal computer ("PC"), console, handheld, and mobile interactive
entertainment products. Through Activision Publishing, Inc. ("Activision"), we are a leading international publisher of interactive software products and content, with a focus on developing and
publishing video games on various consoles, handheld platforms and the PC platform through internally developed franchises and license agreements. Activision currently offers games that operate on the
Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. ("Sony") PlayStation 3 ("PS3"), Nintendo Co. Ltd. ("Nintendo") Wii ("Wii"), and Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") Xbox 360
("Xbox 360") console systems; the Nintendo Dual Screen ("DS") handheld game systems; the PC; Apple iOS devices and other handheld and mobile devices. Through Blizzard Entertainment, Inc.
("Blizzard"), we are the leading publisher of online subscription-based games in the massively multiplayer online role-playing game ("MMORPG") category. Blizzard also internally develops
and publishes PC-based computer games and maintains its proprietary online-game related service, Battle.net.

Our
Activision business involves the development, marketing, and sale of products through retail channels or digital downloads, by license or from our affiliate label program with
certain third-party publishers. Activision is focusing its efforts in the areas we believe have the most opportunity for growth and higher profitability, and we have reduced investments in areas we
believe have less profit potential and limited growth opportunities. To that end, investments are being focused on proven intellectual properties to develop deep, high-quality content that
offers engaging online multiplayer gaming experiences. For example, during 2011, Activision releasedCall of Duty®: Modern Warfare®
3,









which
set new interactive entertainment launch retail sales records with over $775 million of retail sales within five days of launch, exceeding the prior year's record-setting launch ofCall of Duty: Black Ops®,according to Charttrack and retail customer sales information. Activision is currently developing sequels and
additional content to build on the continued success of the Call of Duty franchise. Activision has also recognized that new digital distribution channels have emerged that offer efficiency and
convenience for audiences, as well as additional profit opportunities and recurring revenue models for content creators. As such, in November 2011, Activision launchedCall of
Duty Elite,a digital service that provides both free and paid subscription-based content and features for the Call of Duty franchise. It combines social networking features
and online programming, offering the most accessible way to connect and play Call of Duty games with other people. Activision also expects to continue to release several other titles that economically
utilize key licensed intellectual properties, such as Marvel Entertainment, Inc.'s ("Marvel")Spider-ManandX-Menfranchises, MGM Interactive and EON
Productions Ltd.'s ("MGM & EON")James
Bondfranchise, Hasbro Properties Group's ("Hasbro")Transformers™franchise and the long-standingCabela's®hunting
franchise, among others.

While
focusing on our proven intellectual properties is one of our priorities, we also continue to make strategic investments in developing new intellectual properties. On
October 16, 2011, we launchedSkylanders Spyro's Adventure™, a new intellectual property that combines the use of toys with video
games, delivering a new game play experience to our audiences. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie, the developer of game franchises includingHalo, MythandMarathon,to bring Bungie's next big action game universe to market in future years.

Blizzard
is the development studio and publisher best known as the creator of

World of Warcraft®

, as well as the multiple
award winning

Diablo®

and

StarCraft®

franchises. Blizzard distributes its
products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions (which consist of fees from individuals playing

World of
Warcraft,

including sales of prepaid-cards and other value-added service revenues such as realm transfers, faction changes, and other character customizations within

World of Warcraft

gameplay); retail sales of physical "boxed" products; online download sales of PC products; and licensing of software to third-party
or related party companies that distribute

World of Warcraft

and

StarCraft II®

products.
Blizzard has released three expansion packs to

World of Warcraft

—

World of
Warcraft: The Burning Crusade®

,

World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King®

, and

World of Warcraft: Cataclysm®

. In July
2010, the company launched the sequel to

StarCraft

,

StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty

. In conjunction with the release of

StarCraft II:
Wings of Liberty

,
Blizzard launched a new version of its 24/7 online gaming service, Battle.net®, facilitating the creation of user generated content, digital distribution and online social connectivity
amongst the

World of Warcraft

and

StarCraft

players. Recently, Blizzard has announced its intention to
ship

Diablo III®

in the second quarter of 2012, released a trailer showcasing the multiplayer aspect of its

StarCraft II

expansion,

Heart of the Swarm®

, and announced plans for the fourth

World of Warcraft

expansion—

World of Warcraft: Mist of
Pandaria®

. In addition to
developing these games, Blizzard is also currently developing a new massive multiplayer online game.

The
Activision Blizzard Distribution ("Distribution") business consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party
publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.

The Company

Activision, Inc. was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. On
July 9, 2008, a business combination (the "Business Combination") by and among Activision, Inc., Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision, Inc.,
Vivendi S.A. ("Vivendi"), VGAC LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi , and Vivendi Games, Inc. ("Vivendi Games"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGAC LLC, was
consummated. As a result of the









consummation
of the Business Combination, Activision, Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc. Activision Blizzard is a public company traded on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol
"ATVI."

Our Strategy

Our objective is to continue to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of quality interactive
entertainment software, online content and services that deliver a highly satisfying entertainment experience.

Continue to Improve Profitability.We continually strive to manage risk and increase our operating efficiency with the goal of
increased
profitability. We believe the key factors affecting our future profitability will be the success of our core properties, proven franchises and genres, cost discipline, and our ability to benefit from
the continued growth of online and digital revenue opportunities.

Create Shareholder Value.We continue to focus on enhancing shareholder return through growing operating margin, maintaining a strong
balance sheet
and generating strong cash flows. As a result, we expect to continue to achieve long-term growth and have been able to provide value to our shareholders through stock repurchase programs
and cash dividends.

Grow Through Continued Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances.We intend to continue to evaluate the expansion of our resources and
intellectual
properties library through acquisitions, strategic relationships, and key license transactions. We will also continue to evaluate opportunities to increase our proven development expertise through the
acquisition of, or investment in, selected experienced software development firms.

Focus on Delivery of Digital Content and Online Services.We continue to shift towards digital delivery of content and to establish and
develop
direct and long-term relationships with our gamers. We will also continue to support, maintain and enhance the World of Warcraft and Call of Duty online communities. We believe that
focusing our efforts on online product innovations, such as additional online content, services and social connectivity, provides lasting value enhancement to our global communities of players.

Competition

We compete for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers with other video game companies, as well as with other
providers of different forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment and music.

The
interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size
from small companies with limited resources to large corporations who may have greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. Due to their different focuses and
allocation of resources, certain of our competitors may spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing
policies, pay higher fees to licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports and character properties, and pay more to third-party software developers. In addition, competitors with large
product lines and popular titles typically have greater leverage with retailers, distributors, and other customers who may be willing to promote titles with less consumer appeal in return for access
to such competitor's most popular titles. We believe that the main competitive factors in the interactive entertainment industry include: product features, game quality and playability; brand name
recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access to distribution channels; online capability and functionality; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer
service.









We
compete primarily with other publishers of PC, online and video game console interactive entertainment software. In addition to third-party software competitors, integrated video game
console hardware and software companies, such as Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft, compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. Further, a number of
software publishers have developed and commercialized, or are currently developing, online games for use by consumers over the Internet, and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge in the
subscription-based MMORPG category. Lastly, we compete with mobile-game publishers for alternative handheld devices such as Apple iOS devices and other emerging handheld and mobile
devices.

Employees

We had approximately 7,300 total full-time and part-time employees at December 31, 2011. At
December 31, 2011, approximately 117 of our full-time employees were subject to term employment agreements with us. These agreements generally commit the employees to employment
terms of between one and five years from the commencement of their respective agreements. Most of the employees subject to these agreements are executive officers or key members of the product
development, sales, or marketing divisions. These individuals perform services for us as executives, directors, producers, associate producers, computer programmers, game designers, sales directors,
or marketing product managers. In our experience, entering into employment agreements with these employees reduces our turnover during the development, production, and distribution phases of our
entertainment software products and allows us to plan more effectively for future development and marketing activities. Other employees outside of the United States are also party to employment
agreements that do not specify a fixed term.

The
majority of our employees in France, Spain, Italy and in our distribution companies in Germany are subject to collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any
labor-related work stoppages.

Intellectual Property

Like other entertainment companies, our business is significantly dependent on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection
of intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make
them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when they are playing our games.

We
develop some of our products from wholly-owned intellectual properties that we create within our own studios. We also acquire the rights to include proprietary intellectual property
in our products through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain intellectual property through licenses and service agreements. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products
for specific time periods. In addition, our products that play on game consoles and handheld platforms include technology that is owned by the console or wireless device manufacturer, and licensed
non-exclusively to us for use. We also license technology from providers other than console manufacturers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the
justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms and at
reasonable rates.

We
actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property. We typically own the copyright to the software code in our products. Moreover, we own or
license the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights, trademarks and patents in the United States and other countries as appropriate.

We
often distribute our PC products using copy protection technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In
addition,









console
manufacturers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed products. We are actively engaged in
enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various enforcement
initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world.

Significant Customers

We did not have any single customer that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2011. We had one customer, GameStop, which accounted for approximately 12% and 10% of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.

Operating Segments

We have three operating segments: (i) Activision Publishing, Inc. and its subsidiaries—publishing interactive
entertainment software products and downloadable content, (ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. and its subsidiaries—publishing real-time strategy,
role-playing PC games and online subscription-based games in the MMORPG category, and (iii) Activision Blizzard Distribution—distributing interactive entertainment
software and hardware products ("Distribution"). See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for certain additional information regarding operating segments.

Activision—Business Overview

Strategy

Create, Acquire and Maintain Strong Franchises.Activision focuses on development and publishing activities, principally for products
and content
that are, or have the potential to become, franchises with sustainable mass consumer appeal and recognition. It is our experience that these products and content can then serve as the basis for
sequels, prequels and related new products and content that can be released over an extended period of time. We believe that the publishing and distribution of products and content based on proven
franchises enhances predictability of revenues and the probability of high unit volume sales and operating profits. We own several successful intellectual properties including Call of Duty and the
newly released Skylanders franchise, and we intend to continue development of owned franchises in the future. We have entered into a series of strategic relationships with the owners of intellectual
properties, such as Marvel, MGM & EON, Hasbro, Mattel, Inc. and Cabela, pursuant to which we have acquired the rights to publish products based on franchises such as,Spider-Man,X-Men,James Bond,
Transformers™and theCabela's®hunting franchise. We also have an exclusive 10-year
alliance with Bungie, a developer of successful game franchises, to bring Bungie's next big action game universe to market.

Execute Disciplined Product Selection and Development Processes.The success of our publishing business depends, in significant part,
on our ability
to develop high quality games that will generate high unit volume sales. Our publishing units have implemented a formal control process for the selection, development, production and quality assurance
of our products. We apply this process, which we refer to as the "Greenlight Process," to all of our products, whether externally or internally developed. The Greenlight Process includes
in-depth reviews of each project at several important stages of development by a team that includes many of our highest-ranking operating managers and coordination among our sales,
marketing and development staff at each step in the process.

We
develop our products using a combination of our internal development resources and external development resources acting under contract with us. We typically select our external
developers based on their track records and expertise in producing products in the same category. One developer will









often
produce the same game for multiple platforms and will produce sequels to the original game. We believe that selecting and using development resources in this manner allows us to leverage the
particular expertise of our internal and external development resources, which we believe enhances the quality of our products and accelerates the timing of releases.

Focused Product Offerings, Diversity in Platforms and Geographies.We believe Activision has aligned its product offerings and cost
structure to
position the business for long-term growth. Through our online-enabled products and content, we believe we are best positioned to take advantage of retail and digital distribution channels
that allow us to deliver content to a diversity of gamers ranging from children to adults and from core gamers to mass-market consumers to "value" buyers seeking budget-priced software, in
a variety of geographies. Presently, the majority of products that we develop, publish and distribute operate on the PS3, Xbox 360, and Wii console systems, and the PC. In addition, emerging
and rapidly growing online-enabled platforms, in which we will support in-game integration and bring together online experience and gameplay, will continue to be a focus. We typically
offer our products for use on multiple platforms to reduce the risks associated with any single platform, spread our costs over a larger installed hardware base, and increase unit sales. We intend to
continue to offer both online and packaged software and games with localized content in different geographies.

Products

In recent years, Activision has been best known for its success in the first-person action category from the Call of Duty original
intellectual property, including the latest release,Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3,which set records with over $775 million of retail sales
during the first five days from its launch in November 2011, according to Charttrack and retail customer sales information. The Call of Duty franchise has achieved approximately $6 billion
life-to-date revenue and has an active global community of millions of players.Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, released in the
fourth quarter of 2011, is also setting online usage records that illustrate the game has become one of the leading global entertainment experiences of all time. At the same time we releasedCall of Duty: Modern Warfare
3on November 8, 2011, we launchedCall of Duty Elitewhich had more
than 7 million registered users, including more than 1.5 million paying premium members, at January 31, 2012.

In
2012, we expect to continue to develop and expand our Call of Duty franchise. Activision has announcedCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 Content Season for Call
of Duty Elite,which will provideCall of Duty Elitepremium members with regular updates of new content. At least 20 content
releases are planned from January through September of 2012, of which three have been released during the first two months of 2012 and two are planned for March 2012. These content releases are
currently first made available on Xbox Live, followed by availability on additional platforms at a later time. For players who would like to buy released content a la carte, we have announced theCall of Duty Modern Warfare 3
Content Collection, the first installment of which is expected to be released in March 2012.

On
October 16, 2011, we launchedSkylanders Spyro's Adventure™, a new intellectual property that combines the use of
toys with video games, delivering a new game play experience to our audiences. In North America and Europe, including accessory packs and figures,Skylanders Spyro's
Adventurewas the #8 best-selling game in dollars for the fourth quarter of 2011 and the #1 selling kids' title in dollars in 2011 according to The NPD Group,
Charttrack and Gfk. Additionally, in North America, including accessory packs and figures,Skylanders Spyro's Adventurewas the #10
best-selling title in dollars according to The NPD Group.

Activision
also develops products spanning other genres, including first-person action, action/adventure, role-playing, simulation and strategy. For example, in April 2012,
we plan to releasePrototype 2, the sequel to our popular open-world action game that was originally released in 2009.







Product Development and Support

Activision develops and produces titles using a model in which a core group of creative, production, and technical professionals, in
coordination with our marketing, finance and other departments, have responsibility for the entire development and production process, including the supervision and coordination of internal and
external resources. This team assembles the necessary creative elements to complete a title using, where appropriate, outside programmers, artists, animators, scriptwriters, musicians and songwriters,
sound effects and special effects experts, and sound and video studios. Activision believes that this model allows us to supplement internal expertise with top quality external resources on an
as-needed basis.

In
addition, Activision often engages independent third-party developers to create products on Activision's behalf. We either own these products or have rights to commercially exploit
these products. In other circumstances, a third-party developer may retain ownership of the intellectual property and/or technology included in the product and reserve certain exploitation rights.
Activision typically selects these independent third-party developers based on their expertise in developing products in a specific category for specific platforms. Each of our third-party developers
is under contract with us, either for a single or multiple titles. From time to time, Activision also acquires the license rights to publish and/or distribute software products that are or will be
independently created by third-party developers.
In such cases, the agreements with these developers typically provide us with exclusive publishing and/or distribution rights for a specific period of time, often for specified platforms and
territories. In either case, Activision often has the ability to publish and/or distribute sequels, conversions, enhancements, and add-ons to the product initially being produced by the
independent developer and Activision frequently has the right to engage the services of the original developer with regard to further product development.

In
consideration for the services that independent third-party developers provide, the developers receive a royalty, which is generally based on net sales or operating income of the
developed products. Typically, developers also receive an advance, which Activision recoups from the royalties otherwise payable to the developers. The advance generally is paid in "milestone" stages.
The payment at each stage is tied to the completion and delivery of a detailed performance milestone. Working with independent developers allows us to reduce our fixed development costs, share
development risks with the third-party developers, take advantage of the third-party developers' expertise in connection with certain categories of products or certain platforms, and gain access to
proprietary development technologies.

In
April 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive 10-year relationship with Bungie, the developer of game franchises includingHalo,
MythandMarathon,to bring Bungie's next big action game universe to market. Under the terms of the agreement, Activision will
have exclusive, worldwide rights to publish and distribute all future Bungie games based on the new intellectual property on multiple platforms and devices.

Activision
provides various forms of product support to both our internally and externally developed titles. Activision quality assurance personnel are involved throughout the
development and production of each title published. Activision subjects all such products to extensive testing before release to ensure compatibility with all appropriate hardware systems and
configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects found in the products. To support our products after release, Activision generally provides its customers online access on a
24-hour basis, as well as live telephone operators who answer the help lines during regular business hours.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Activision's marketing efforts include activities on the Internet (including on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other online social
networks and websites), public relations, print and broadcast









advertising,
coordinated in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of purchase displays), participation in cooperative advertising programs, direct response
vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or the digital online services provided by Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo. From time to time, we also
receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers, mass appeal consumer products related to a game, and retailers in connection with their own promotional efforts. In addition, certain of our
products contain software that enables customers to "electronically register" their purchases with us online.

We
believe that our strong proven franchises and genres generate a loyal and devoted customer base that continues to purchase our sequels as a result of their dedication to the franchise
and satisfaction from previous product purchases. We therefore market these sequels, expansion packs and downloadable content toward the established customer base as well as to broader audiences. In
addition, we believe that we derive benefits for our licensed properties from the marketing and promotional activities undertaken by the underlying intellectual property owners, in addition to our own
marketing efforts.

North American Sales and Distribution.Our products are available for sale or rental in thousands of retail outlets in North America.
Our North
American retail customers include, among others, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, Toys "R" Us and Wal-Mart.

In
the United States ("U.S.") and Canada, our products are primarily sold on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses and
game specialty stores. We believe that a direct relationship with retail accounts results in more effective inventory management, merchandising, and communications than would be possible through
indirect relationships. We have implemented electronic data interchange linkages with many of our retailers to facilitate the placing and shipping of orders. We also sell our products to a limited
number of distributors.

International Sales and Distribution.Our products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party
distribution and licensing arrangements, and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. We conduct our international publishing activities through offices in the United Kingdom
("U.K."), Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, Australia and Ireland. We often seek to maximize our worldwide revenues and profits by releasing high-quality
foreign language releases concurrently with English language releases and by continuing to expand the number of direct selling relationships we maintain with key retailers in major territories.

Digital Distribution.Online and digital distribution channels are continuing to grow. Some of our products and content are sold in a
digital format,
which allows consumers to purchase and download the content at their convenience directly to their PC, console system or wireless device. We partner with digital distributors to utilize this growing
method of distribution. We also make available to our customers value-added downloadable content to enhance their gaming experience through the digital online services provided by Microsoft, Sony and
Nintendo.

Affiliate Labels.In addition to our own products, we distribute a select number of interactive entertainment products that are
developed and
marketed by other third-party publishers through our "affiliate label" programs in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. The distribution of other publishers' products allows us to
increase the efficiencies of our sales force and provides us with the ability to better ensure adequate shelf presence at retail stores for all of the products that we distribute. Services we provide
under our affiliate label programs include order solicitation, in-store marketing, logistics and order fulfillment, and sales channel management, as well as other accounting and general
administrative functions. Our current affiliate label partners include LucasArts, as well as several affiliate label partners in our "value" business, which offers budget-priced software to the
public. Each affiliate label relationship is unique and may pertain only to distribution in certain geographic territories and may be further limited only to a specific title or titles for specific
platforms.









Manufacturing

Activision prepares a set of master program copies, documentation and packaging materials for our products for each hardware platform
on which the product will be released. With respect to products for use on the Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft systems, our disk duplication, packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly and
shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors and Company-owned distribution facilities.

To
maintain protection over their hardware technologies, Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished products and license their
hardware technologies to us. We deliver the master materials to the licensor or its approved replicator, which then manufactures finished goods and delivers them to us for distribution under our
label. At the time
our product unit orders are filled by the manufacturer, we become responsible for the costs of manufacturing and the applicable per unit royalty on such units, even if the units do not ultimately
sell.

Blizzard—Business Overview

Strategy

Maintain and Build upon Our Leadership Position in the Subscription-Based MMORPG Category and PC Online
Categories.Blizzard plans to maintain and build upon our leadership position in the subscription-based MMORPG category by regularly providing new content, game features and
online services to further solidify the loyalty of our subscriber base, as well as to expand our global game footprint to new geographies.

We
believe that the PC online platform will remain a growing category throughout the world. The large and growing PC installed base in all regions and the continuing development of
broadband connectivity facilitates online games and community experiences while creating access to new potential customers. Further,World of Warcraftis a server-based game, only playable online, thus allowing Blizzard to be one of the few companies that can target markets that have been dominated by piracy and monetize former illegitimate players,
as well as expand in markets that have not been penetrated by consoles, but offer a large PC installed base.

Products

Blizzard is the leading company in the subscription-based MMORPG category.World of
Warcraftwas initially launched in November 2004 and today is available in North America, Europe (including Russia), Southeast Asia, China, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand,
Malaysia, Singapore, Chile, Brazil, Argentina, and the regions of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 10.2 million gamers worldwide were subscribed* to
play Blizzard'sWorld of Warcraft.World of Warcraftis available in various languages based on the
regions in which it is played and has earned awards and praise from publications around the world. Since the first release ofWorld of Warcraft,
Blizzard has launched three expansion packs in all regions in which the game is supported. The three expansion packs areWorld of Warcraft: The Burning
Crusade,which was first available in January 2007,World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King,which was first available in
November 2008, andWorld of Warcraft: Cataclysmwhich was first available in December 2010. Revenues associated with theWorld
of Warcraftfranchises accounted for 90%, 89%, and 98% of Blizzard's consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
Additionally, in July



*We
defineWorld of Warcraftsubscribers as: (1) individuals who have paid a subscription fee or have an
active prepaid card to playWorld of Warcraft, (2) individuals who have purchased the game and are within their free month of access, and
(3) Internet Game Room players who have accessed the game over the last thirty days. Our definition of subscribers does not include any players under free promotional subscriptions, expired or
cancelled subscriptions, or expired prepaid cards.









2010,
Blizzard launched the sequel to StarCraft,StarCraft II: Wings of Libertysimultaneously around the world, including North America, Europe
(including Russia), Southeast Asia, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Chile, Brazil, Argentina, and the regions of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau. In conjunction with the release ofStarCraft II: Wings of
Liberty, Blizzard launched a new version of its 24/7 online gaming service, Battle.net, providing user generated content, digital
distribution and online social connectivity amongst theWorld of WarcraftandStarCraftplayers.

Product Development and Support

As a development studio and the creator and publisher of the World of Warcraft, Diablo and StarCraft franchises, Blizzard focuses on
creating well-designed, high quality games. Product development is handled internally by a strong core group of talented designers, producers, programmers, artists, and sound engineers. To
maintain its current subscribers and attract new subscribers, Blizzard continues to develop new patches to upgradeWorld of Warcraft. In addition to its
headquarters in Irvine, California, Blizzard maintains offices in or around Austin, Texas; Paris, France; Cork, Ireland; Seoul, South Korea; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and Taipei, Taiwan to provide24/7game support toWorld of Warcraftplayers in their native language, enhance online community management, and tailor marketing
initiatives to specific regions.

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution

Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means: subscriptions (which consist of fees from
individuals playingWorld of Warcraft, prepaid cards, and other value-added services such as the ability to change "factions", the ability to transfer
"realms" and other character customizations), retail sales of physical "boxed" products, online download sales of PC products, and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that
distributeWorld of WarcraftandStarCraft II. Many of our services and products are digitally enabled,
which allows us to take advantage of this rapidly growing channel and to reinforce Blizzard's long-term relationships with its gamers. In addition, Blizzard operates the online game
service, Battle.net, which attracts millions of active players, making it one of the largest online-game related services in the world. Battle.net powersStarCraft
II: Wings of LibertyandWorld of Warcraft, and is expected to power future releases. The service offers players advanced
communications features, social networking, player matching and digital content delivery and is designed to allow people to connect regardless of what Blizzard game they are playing.

Distribution—Business Overview

We distribute interactive entertainment hardware and software products in Europe through our European distribution subsidiaries:
Centresoft in the U.K. and NBG in Germany. These subsidiaries act as wholesalers in the distribution of products and also provide packaging, logistical and sales services. They provide services to our
publishing operations and to various third-party publishers, including Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. Centresoft is Sony's preferred distributor of PlayStation products to the independent retail
sector of the U.K.

We
entered into the distribution business to obtain distribution capacity in Europe for our own products, while supporting the distribution infrastructure with third-party sales, and to
diversify our operations in the European market. Centresoft and our other distribution subsidiaries operate in accordance with strict confidentiality procedures to provide independent services to
various third-party publishers.









Additional Financial Information

See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 13 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain additional information regarding operating segments and
geographic areas. See the Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our
practices with regard to several working capital items, such as rights of returns, and inventory practices. See the Management's Overview of Business Trends under Item 7 "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business.

Available Information

Our website located athttp://www.activisionblizzard.comallows access free of charge
to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The information found on our website is not a part of, and is not
incorporated by reference into, this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

The
public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549
(information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC also maintains a web site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

