Item 1A.Risk Factors

Risks Related to Our Business

Our business strategy may not succeed in the long term.

Our tax inclusive plans make us susceptible to increases in taxes and regulatory fees.

We have recently
begun to offer service plans that include applicable taxes and regulatory fees for a flat fee. Because of budget shortfalls and regulatory policies, the government and regulatory agencies may increase the taxes and regulatory fees payable on our
services. If the government or regulatory agencies increase the taxes or regulatory fees that are attributable to our services, it could negatively impact the profitability of our services. If we attempted to include such increased taxes and
regulatory fees, we could experience increased churn, decreased revenues or fewer customer additions. If we experience lower profitability, lower margins, increased churn, or lower sales, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and operating results.

The lack of a strong brand name or inability to maintain or strengthen our
brands may reduce our ability to retain and attract customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.

With increased competition in the wireless telecommunications industry, in particular in the fixed-price, unlimited use of paid-in-advance services, we believe marketing and promotional activities are
critical to the success of the business and a strong brand and image is an essential part of our marketing activities. Developing, promoting and maintaining our brand and image requires a consistent capital investment and expense to promote our
brands and there can be no assurance that this investment in our brand and image or the promotion of our brand and image will be successful. If we fail to develop, promote and maintain a strong brand and image or we are unsuccessful in promoting our
brands it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.







Index to Financial Statements

A failure to meet the demands of our customers could adversely affect our business,
financial condition and operating results.

We may not be successful in
continuing to grow our customer base.

Our business plan assumes continued growth in our customer base. Our ability to
grow our customer base and achieve the customer penetration levels that we currently believe are possible with our business model in our markets is subject to a number of risks, including:



•increased competition from existing competitors or new competitors;



•higher than anticipated churn in our markets;



•our inability to increase our network capacity in areas we currently serve to meet increasing customer demand;



•our inability to upgrade our networks to 4G;



•limitations in our customer service, billing and other systems;



•our inability to manage inventory and adequately forecast our inventory needs, such as handset quantity, quality and type;



•our inability to meet customer expectations and demands;



•our inability to continue to offer products or services which our current or prospective customers want;



•our inability to launch service in new metropolitan areas;



•our inability to attract and retain indirect agents and dealers for our products and services;



•our inability to increase the relevant coverage areas in our existing markets, to expand our roaming arrangements to areas that are important to us or
to allow us to offer services at rates which are attractive to our current and prospective customers;



•unfavorable United States economic conditions, which may have a disproportionate negative impact on certain portions of our customer base;



•changes in the demographics of our markets; and







Index to Financial Statements

•adverse changes in the legislative and regulatory environment that may limit our ability to grow our customer base.

If we are unable to achieve the aggregate levels of customer penetration that we currently believe are possible with our business model, our
ability to continue to increase our customer base and revenues at the rates we currently expect may be limited and we may fail to achieve additional economies of scale. Any failure to achieve the penetration levels we currently believe are possible
with our business model and to successfully increase our customer base may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Our business is seasonal and our operating results for future periods will be affected negatively if we fail to have strong customer growth in the first and fourth quarters.

Our business is seasonal and reflective of promotional activity, competition in the industry and the existing economic conditions. Our
largest numbers of subscribers are typically added in the first and fourth quarters. However, sales activity and churn can be strongly affected by the launch of new and surrounding metropolitan areas and promotional activity, which can reduce or
outweigh certain seasonal effects. If we fail to meet our expectations for customer additions in the first or fourth quarter, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results for future periods.

Failing to manage our churn rate or experiencing a higher rate of customer turnover than we have forecasted could
adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.

Our customers do not have long-term
contracts and can discontinue their service at any time without penalty. In addition, as handset prices continue to decline, they become more disposable for our customers, who may then change wireless providers or phones, increasing our churn. Our
rate of customer churn can be affected by a number of factors, including the following:



•network issues, including network coverage, network reliability, technology upgrades, dropped and blocked calls, and network availability;



•geographic coverage, including roaming coverage, which is less extensive than our competitors;



•affordability and general economic conditions;



•supplier or vendor failures;



•customer perceptions of our services and offerings;



•customer care concerns, including reliance on automated customer service solutions that do not provide customers with the one on one attention they
desire;



•our rate of growth;



•handset, application, and content selection and issues, including lack of early access to the newest handsets, innovative wireless applications, and
content, handset prices and handset problems;



•the types, make-up and nature of our service plans and our marketing and promotional offers;



•wireless number portability requirements that allow customers to keep their wireless phone numbers when switching between service providers;



•our inability to offer bundled services or services offered by our competitors;



•our lack of a third generation, or 3G, broadband wireless network in most of our metropolitan areas;



•delays or problems in our roll-out of LTE; and







Index to Financial Statements

•competition and competitive offers by other wireless broadband mobile service providers, including offers by compatible carriers allowing our customers
to keep their handsets when they sign up for service with such other carrier.

We cannot assure you that our
strategies to address customer churn will be successful. In addition, we may not be able to profitably replace customers who leave our service or replace them at all. If we experience a churn rate higher than we expect or fail to replace lost
customers, we could experience reduced revenues and increased marketing costs to attract replacement customers required to sustain our business plan, which could reduce our profit margin and could reduce the cash available to construct and operate
new metropolitan areas, to expand coverage and capacity in existing metropolitan areas, or to upgrade our networks to LTE, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Our operations require continued capital expenditures and a failure to access additional capital could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Our business strategy involves expanding into and
competing in major metropolitan areas, all of which have significant established competition from other providers. To compete effectively, we must continue to upgrade and enhance our network and services. As a result, we have invested and expect to
continue to invest a significant amount of capital in the future to construct, maintain, upgrade and operate our network, billing, customer care and information systems, to implement our business plans, including our 4G network, and to support
future growth of our wireless business.


/








Index to Financial Statements

generate sufficient cash from our operations, our credit ratings could be adversely affected, which would likely increase our future borrowing costs and could affect our ability to access
additional capital.

We face intense competition from other telecommunications providers and new entrants in the
marketplace.

Some of our competitors have, or may in the future, take advantage of governmental loan, grant or credit
programs, which may allow them to offer services for lower prices, have lower costs, or provide service in areas that may be uneconomic for us to serve without taking advantage of such programs. If we choose not to, or are unable to, participate in
such governmental programs and our competitors participate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.

We may face additional competition from existing or new entrants as a result of future FCC auctions of spectrum and/or through legislative change or actions by the FCC allowing the development of
new products and services by existing competitors and allowing other non-telecommunications businesses to enter the industry.

Recent competitive pressures have caused us to change our service plans, which may
prove to be unsuccessful in the long term. A number of other carriers, resellers and MVNOs are offering, or in the future may offer, service plans similar to, or competitive with, our service plans with more extensive geographic coverage than ours
and other differentiating features. In response to increasing competition in the pre-paid market, we have introduced new service plans, which all include service coverage on a nationwide, tax-inclusive basis. Our new service plans, however, may not
succeed in the long term or we may need to change our business strategy. If we have a







Index to Financial Statements

disproportionate number of our customers on our lower priced service plans or if our customers do not purchase our service plans in the mix we anticipate, it could result in lower revenues and
lower profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. From time to time, we evaluate our products, service offerings and the demands of our target customers and may, as a result,
amend, change, discontinue or adjust our products, service offerings or initiate or offer new permanent, trial or promotional product or service offerings. These new or changed product and service offerings may not succeed in the long term or prove
to be profitable. These new or changed product and service offerings may result in reduced revenues, increased expenses, and other adverse financial or operational consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and operating results.

The continuing consolidation in the wireless industry through mergers, acquisitions
and joint ventures is creating increased competition and marketing initiatives.

We may face increasing competitive pricing and service bundling, which could adversely
impact our ability to attract and retain customers and the profitability of our services.







Index to Financial Statements

We may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to new marketing and sales
initiatives launched by our competitors.

Many of our competitors have far greater resources, including sales and
marketing resources with far larger marketing budgets than we do. We do not know and cannot anticipate what sales and marketing initiatives our competitors may launch or the magnitude of their efforts. As a result, our response may be ineffective
after our competitors have already launched their sales and marketing initiatives and may be delayed by longer lead-time elements in our business system, such as network resources and billing software. Further, our business model is premised on the
company achieving and maintaining a low cost structure, which we achieve by centralizing certain sales and marketing activities and designing and implementing major sales and marketing efforts across all of the metropolitan areas we serve.

Further, in general, we also do not spend as much on advertising and marketing as some of our competitors. We generally have
had, and anticipate in the future having, less sales and marketing resources than our competitors, and we have spent, and anticipate spending, less on advertising and marketing than our competitors. We generally do not have the resources to respond
to all advertising and marketing initiatives of our competitors and consequently our efforts may not be effective. As a result, our response may be inadequate to competitive initiatives, which may allow our competitors to gain competitive share and
to have an effect on our brand and sales and marketing efforts. We may not have time to conduct extensive customer focus groups or sales trials before launching our sales and marketing initiatives companywide. As a result, our initial sales and
marketing initiatives may not adequately respond to our competitors’ sales and marketing initiatives. If we are unable to respond quickly enough or effectively to new marketing and sales initiatives launched by our competitors, it could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.

We may not have a large enough
supply of handsets to meet the demands of our customers.

Our marketing and purchasing personnel are required to
coordinate their activities to ensure that our distribution channels have adequate sales stock to support our sales and marketing initiatives. If we fail to maintain an adequate sales stock to support our sales and marketing initiatives, we could
have excessive customer demand for handsets with only a limited supply or an excess supply of handsets for which we have no demand. Additionally, we may fail to predict and select the appropriate handsets for our marketing and sales initiatives
resulting in us not meeting our customer’s demands.

The wireless industry is experiencing rapid technological
change.







Index to Financial Statements

Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these
and future technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, products and services that meet customer demands. For us to keep pace with these technological changes and remain competitive, we may continue to make significant capital expenditures
in our networks, acquire additional spectrum, and design and offer new services. Customer acceptance of the products and services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings and
those offered by our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technology, such as LTE, on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or that we will have adequate spectrum, or be able to acquire additional spectrum, to offer
new services or implement new technologies. If we do not offer these services, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers. Further, we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We also cannot be certain that
the choices we make regarding technology and new service offerings will prove to be successful in the marketplace or will achieve their intended results. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and operating results.

We are dependent on certain network technology improvements, which may not occur or may be
materially delayed.



•inability to timely develop and engineer design and network changes for the launch of 4G services;



•reliance on existing engineering staff in each of our metropolitan markets to oversee our LTE deployment;



•delay in the development and deployment of our 4G networks due to lack of necessary equipment and products being designed and manufactured or due to
limited staffing resources and lack of proper coordination across all our markets;



•network and system compatibility issues;



•unanticipated and unforeseen costs or higher costs attributable to the lack of experience with 4G technology and the implementation of the deployment
of 4G technology and the maintenance of the 4G technology and network;



•inability to acquire or lease additional cell sites or lease additional space at existing cell sites needed for expansion;



•obtaining necessary permits and regulatory approvals or third-party approvals for network construction, implementation and deployment;



•possible quality and reliability issues of the 4G network once deployed due to integration, compatibility or coverage concerns; and







Index to Financial Statements

•dependency of limited number of providers for necessary engineering, design and manufacture of technology, equipment and products compatible with 4G
technology, such as EVRC-B or 4G capable handsets.

In the meantime, our limited spectrum may require us to
lease more cell sites to provide equivalent service, spend greater capital compared to our competitors, deploy more expensive network equipment, such as six-sector antennas, or use DAS systems and deploy equipment sooner than our competitors. There
can be no assurance that we can lease adequate tower sites or additional spectrum or have access to DAS systems. Moreover, once deployed on a commercial basis, our 4G technology may not perform as expected or deliver the quality and types of
services we expect. We cannot assure you that necessary quantities of equipment and compatible devices will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or will operate on our network or will provide the customer with the quality and
quantity of features desired, nor that when delivered such equipment and devices will be at cost-effective prices.

We may be unable to expand our LTE services beyond our existing service area to meet customer
expectations.

We do not anticipate being able initially, and may not in the future be able, to provide LTE service
outside our existing service areas. Since at this time a limited number of carriers have publicly announced that they are planning to deploy LTE in the near future, the number of potential roaming partners for LTE will be extremely limited. In
addition, the current automatic roaming requirements do not include data roaming. Other carriers have in the past, and may in the future, be reluctant to provide data roaming to us at all or on terms we consider to be acceptable. In addition, some
of the carriers who currently provide roaming to us may be delayed in deploying, decide not to deploy, or be unable to deploy LTE, which would limit our ability to roam. Further, since LTE is relatively new and carriers may attempt to differentiate
their services using LTE, carriers may be reluctant to allow roaming at all or at prices that would make roaming cost effective for our customers. If our customers or potential customers demand LTE services on a nationwide basis or our competitors
offer 4G services on a nationwide basis, we may be unable to meet customer expectations and we may attract less than the anticipated number of LTE customers or we may experience higher than anticipated levels of churn. If we do not attract the
number of LTE customers we anticipate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financials and results of operations.

We may be unable to successfully develop and incorporate wireless data services profitably into our service offerings in the future.

Wireless broadband mobile data services are increasingly becoming a meaningful component of many wireless broadband mobile carriers’ strategies and financial results. High-speed data services offered
by other carriers have shown considerable demand. The national wireless broadband mobile carriers have invested (and we expect will continue to invest) significant resources to develop and deliver these new data services to their customers. As
market prices for wireless voice services continue to decline, if we are unable to offer such new data services or offer such services on competitive terms, we may not have sufficient revenue to offset the decline in wireless voice revenues.
Similarly, as customers increasingly demand wireless broadband mobile data services as part of the core feature set







Index to Financial Statements

of their wireless services, the failure to offer such services could reduce sales and increase churn. Currently, we offer limited wireless data services that are not as robust as those offered by
some of our competitors and may never be.

We may be unable to acquire additional spectrum in the future at a reasonable cost.

We may undertake mergers, acquisitions or strategic transactions that could result in operating difficulties,
dilution and distraction from our business.

We may in the future expand the markets in which we operate through the
acquisition of selected spectrum or operating markets from other telecommunication service providers, the acquisition of additional spectrum from FCC auctions or auctions in other countries, the acquisition of other telecommunication service
providers or through other strategic transactions. Any such transactions can entail risk, may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources, may divert management’s attention, and may create various operating
difficulties and expenditures, among which may include:



•uncertain revenues and expenses, with the result that we may not realize the growth in revenues, anticipated cost structure, profitability, or return
on investment that we expect;



•difficulty integrating the acquired technologies, services, spectrum, products, operations and personnel of the acquired businesses while maintaining
uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures;







Index to Financial Statements

•disruption of ongoing business;



•impact on our cash and available credit lines for use in financing future growth and working capital needs;



•obligations imposed on us by counterparties in such transactions that limit our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to compete in
geographic areas or specific lines of business, or other aspects of our operational flexibility;



•increasing cost and complexity of assuring the implementation and maintenance of adequate internal control and disclosure controls and procedures, and
of obtaining the reports and attestations required under the Exchange Act;



•loss of or inability to attract and retain key personnel;



•impairment of relationships with employees, customers or vendors;



•difficulties in consolidating and preparing our financial statements due to poor accounting records, weak financial controls and, in some cases,
procedures at acquired entities not based on U.S. GAAP particularly those entities in which we lack control;



•costs and complexity in complying with U.S. GAAP;



•inability to predict or anticipate market developments and capital commitments relating to the acquired company, business or technology; and



•with respect to any spectrum acquisition in a foreign country, difficulties and expenditures associated with operating in a foreign jurisdiction.

The anticipated benefit to us of any strategic transaction, acquisition or merger may never materialize.
Future investments, acquisitions or dispositions, or similar arrangements could result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any
of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Any such transactions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all.

Additionally, our expected growth and any acquisitions or business combinations will also require stringent control of costs,
diligent management of our network infrastructure and our growth, increased capital requirements, increased costs associated with marketing activities, the attraction and retention of qualified management, technical and sales personnel and the
training and management of new personnel, and the design and implementation of financial and management controls. Our growth will and any acquisitions or business combinations may challenge the capacity and abilities of existing employees and future
employees at all levels of our business and the controls and systems we have implemented. Failure to successfully manage our growth and development or any acquisitions or business combinations could increase our costs and adversely affect our level
of service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Business, political, regulatory and economic factors may significantly affect our operations, the manner in which we conduct our business and slow our rate of growth.

The United States economy has deteriorated significantly, unemployment rates have increased and such conditions may continue for the
foreseeable future. Our business could be further affected by such economic conditions, unemployment rates, as well as consumer spending, in the areas in which we operate. These factors are outside of our control. If economic conditions and
unemployment rates continue to deteriorate, or remain depressed, our existing and future customer base may be disproportionately and adversely affected due to the generally lower per capita income of our customer base (versus the national
facility-based wireless broadband mobile carriers), which may be disproportionately affected by any disruption in the United States economy, including an economic downturn or recession. In addition, a number of our customers work in industries which
may be disproportionately affected by an economic slowdown or recession. More generally, adverse changes in the economy are likely to negatively affect our customers’ ability to pay for existing services and to decrease their interest in
purchasing new







Index to Financial Statements

services. These same economic conditions may negatively impact our third-party service providers who experience cash flow problems, liquidity concerns or are unable to obtain or refinance credit
such that they may no longer be able to operate. See the risk factor entitled “We rely on third parties to provide products, software and services that are integral to our business.”The resulting impact of such economic conditions
on our customers, on consumer and discretionary spending and on our service providers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our services and on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Additionally, there have been significant changes in the political climate and in the composition of the FCC as a result of the outcome of
recent state elections and the Presidential election in the United States. Several recent actions indicate that the FCC will be proactive in the regulation of wireless services, and we cannot predict with any certainty the nature and extent of the
changes in federal, state and local laws, regulations and policy we will face, or the effect of such elections on any pending legislation. For example, changes in the political climate could affect the extent to which further consolidation of
wireless carriers will be approved by the government and such changes could reduce our strategic merger and acquisition options. Any changes in regulation, new policy initiatives, increased taxes or any other changes in federal law may have an
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We are exposed to counterparty risk in our
senior secured credit facility and related interest rate protection agreements.

We have entered into interest rate
protection agreements to manage the Company’s interest rate risk exposure by fixing a portion of the interest expense we pay on our long-term debt under our senior secured credit facility. There has been considerable turmoil in the world
economy and banking markets, which could affect whether the counterparties to such interest rate protection agreements are able to honor their agreements. If the counterparties fail to honor their commitments, we could experience higher interest
rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

The
investment of our substantial cash balances are subject to risk.

We can and have historically invested our substantial
cash balances in, among other things, securities issued and fully guaranteed by the United States or any state, highly rated commercial paper and auction rate securities, money market funds meeting certain criteria, and demand deposits. These
investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. Such risks may result in a loss of liquidity, substantial impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investment in
the long-term, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and liquidity.

We currently have an exclusive arrangement with our billing services vendor.

Amdocs Software Systems
Limited and Amdocs, Inc., or Amdocs, subject to certain exclusions, is our exclusive vendor for billing services in North America. If Amdocs does not perform its obligations under the agreement, or ceases to continue to develop, or substantially
delays development of, new features or billing services, or ceases to support its existing billing systems, we may be unable to secure alternative billing services from another provider or providers in a timely manner, for a reasonable cost or
otherwise, which could cause us, among other things, not to be able to bill our customers, provide customer care, grow our business, report financial results, or manage our business and we may have increased churn, all of which could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We may be unable to enforce or protect our
intellectual property and intellectual property rights.

We own, license, develop and use intellectual property,
including trade secrets, in our business. While we engage in measures to protect our intellectual property, such measures offer limited protection and may not prevent the misappropriation of information or our proprietary rights. Further, the
enforcement of our intellectual property rights may require legal action, which may be costly and may not be successful, even if our rights are infringed.

We cannot assure you that any patent, trademark or service mark, whether pending or future, or any application for such will be granted or that any existing patent, trademark or service mark will not be
infringed, challenged or invalidated or that any such registration will adequately protect our brand, products or image. If any of our intellectual property rights are infringed, challenged or invalidated, the costs associated with the protection
and







Index to Financial Statements

attempted enforcement of our rights and the potential loss of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We and our suppliers may be subject to claims of infringement.

The technologies used in the telecommunications industry are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As
a result, third parties may assert infringement and misappropriation claims against us or our suppliers from time to time based on our or their general business operations, the equipment, software or services we or they use or provide, or the
specific operation of our wireless networks or service. Our suppliers may be subject to infringement or misappropriation claims that if successful could preclude the supplier from supplying us with the products and services we require to run our
business or offer our services, require the supplier to change the products and services they provide to us in a way which could have a material adverse effect on us, or cause the supplier to increase the charges for their products and services to
us. We also cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with an infringement or misappropriation claim involving our manufacturers, licensors and suppliers who provide us with the equipment, software and technology
that we use in our business. In addition, our suppliers may refuse to, or may be unable to, pay any damages or honor their defense and indemnification obligations to us, which may result in us having to bear such losses. We may also have to buy
equipment and services from other third party suppliers or pay royalties to the holders of intellectual property rights.

Substantially all of our CDMA network infrastructure equipment is manufactured or provided by a
single infrastructure vendor.







Index to Financial Statements

liquidated damages based on the difference in prices between exclusive and non-exclusive prices, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating
results.

Substantially all of our LTE infrastructure equipment and initial dual mode CDMA/LTE handsets are manufactured
or provided by one vendor.

Similarly, if our vendors deliver a product and service that does not work as anticipated, fails to meet customer expectations, or fails to
operate properly, we will have invested in deploying our LTE network without receiving revenues. For example, if the handset is lacking in certain features that our customers expect, our existing and potential customers may not purchase the
handsets. Further, we presently provide limited subsidies for handsets to our customers, so the price of the handset may also reduce the demand for the handsets. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
operating results.

We rely on third parties to provide products, software and services that are integral to our
business.

Sophisticated financial, management, information, network management, and billing systems are vital to our
business. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to develop and to provide all of these systems. We have entered into agreements with third-party suppliers to provide products, software and services that are integral to our
business, such as customer care, product distribution, content development, financial reporting, network management, network infrastructure equipment and services and billing and payment processing. We purchase a substantial portion of the products,
software and services from only a few major suppliers and we generally rely on one or two key vendors in each area. Some of these agreements may be terminated upon relatively short notice. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our
financial information and billing systems rely to some extent on the design, development and delivery of products, software and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent on agreements with third-party vendors and
these systems may not perform as anticipated.

If our suppliers terminate their agreements with us or experience interruptions
or other problems delivering quality products, software or services to us on a timely basis or at all, it may cause us to have difficulty providing services to or billing our customers, developing, delivering, and deploying new products (including
sufficient volume and types) and services and/or upgrading, maintaining, improving our networks, or generating accurate or timely financial reports and information. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain
satisfactory and timely replacement services on economically attractive terms, or at all. The loss, termination or expiration of these agreements or our inability to renew them at all or on favorable terms or negotiate agreements with other
providers at comparable rates could harm our business. Our reliance on others to provide essential products, software, and services on our behalf also gives us less control over the efficiency, timeliness and quality of these products, software and
services.

Additionally, our business model utilizes and relies upon indirect distribution outlets including a range of local,
regional and national mass market dealers and retailers allowing us to reach the largest number of potential customers in our metropolitan areas at a relatively low cost. Many of our dealers own and operate more than one location and may operate in
more than one of our metropolitan areas. Because these third party dealers are the primary contact between us and our customers in many instances, including in connection with accepting payment for our services on our behalf, they play an important
role in our ability to grow our business and in customer retention. With the recent deterioration of the United States economy and the credit markets, which may continue for







Index to Financial Statements

the foreseeable future, some of our dealers and vendors may be unable to continue their operations or secure funds for their continued operations. Further, due to the present economic conditions,
we may be unable to find participants in our local markets that would qualify or be able to open a dealer location to replace closed operations. Since we rely on such third parties to provide some of our services, any bankruptcy, termination, switch
or disruption in service by such third parties or diminution in the number of such third parties could be costly and affect operating efficiencies and our ability to attract and retain customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and operating results.

We rely heavily on indirect distribution channels.

Additionally, as more of our competitors use third party dealers to market and sell their products and services, competition for dealers is intense and larger competitors are able to offer higher commissions. As a result, we may have
difficulty attracting and retaining dealers and any inability to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating
results.

We and our indirect dealers face direct competition with some of our other indirect distribution agents and
dealers.

Many of our indirect distribution outlets, primarily local dealers, are not our exclusive dealers, which
means that these dealers may sell other third party products and services in direct competition with us and other indirect dealers in the same location. Additionally, we strive to ensure that our customers have access to a wide variety of products
and services within their geographic area, which means some of our dealers may be located within close proximity to one another and compete for the same customer base. Further, with the advent of our tax inclusive service plans, we are changing how
we incent our indirect distribution channel to sell our products and services. If our planned incentives do not satisfy our indirect agents and dealers, we may have to increase our indirect distribution costs, we may experience lower sales than
anticipated, or we may lose our indirect distribution agents and dealers. As a result of the direct competition we encounter in some of our dealer locations and the potential for competition among our local dealers, we may experience reduced sales
in certain geographic areas, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Our agreements with our indirect distribution agents may be terminated on relatively short notice.

We
have agreements with our third party indirect distribution agents to market and sell our products and services. These agreements can be terminated by us or by such indirect distribution agents on relatively short notice. Our competitors are focused
on increasing their distribution, and the relatively short termination period may allow our competitors to move our indirect distribution agents to their products and services. In addition, if the economy continues to remain weak, some of these
indirect distribution agents may cease to operate. If we lose our indirect distribution, we may have difficulty finding new companies to distribute our products and services, or we may be forced to increase the amount of payments we make to our
indirect distribution agents. If any of these occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operational results.







Index to Financial Statements

We utilize a limited number of cell site and DAS providers.

If
our master agreement with one of our cell site or DAS providers were to terminate, or if the cell site or DAS system providers were to experience severe financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy, or if one of these cell site or DAS system
providers were unable to support our use of its cell sites or DAS systems, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases and DAS systems with a limited number
of cell site and DAS system providers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results if we are unable to renew our expiring leases or DAS system agreements with these companies either on terms comparable to those we
have today or at all. In addition, the tower industry has continued to consolidate. If any of the companies from which we lease towers or DAS systems were to consolidate with other cell site or DAS systems companies, they may be unable to honor
obligations to us or have the ability to raise prices, which could materially affect our profitability. If a material number of cell sites or DAS systems were no longer available for our use, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and operating results.

We are increasingly focused on providing nationwide service, but we may be
unable to obtain the roaming and other services we need from other carriers at rates that allow us to provide such nationwide service and still remain competitive.







Index to Financial Statements

Further, as the wireless industry has consolidated, which may continue in the future, we may
have increased difficulty entering into new roaming agreements with other technically compatible carriers offering comparable quality of service or replacing our existing roaming agreements. In addition, we believe the rates we are charged by
certain carriers in some instances are higher than the rates these carriers charge to other roaming partners that may have large call volumes or certain affiliations.

Future regulatory changes may also affect our ability to enter into new or maintain existing roaming agreements on competitive terms.

We may incur higher than anticipated intercarrier compensation costs.

We resell third
party international interexchange services in connection with certain of our unlimited international interexchange services. The charges for these services may be subject to change by the terminating or interconnecting carrier, or by the regulatory
body or agency having jurisdiction in the applicable foreign country. In the event that the charges change, the terminating or interconnecting carrier may attempt to assess such charges retroactively on us or our third party international
interexchange carrier, which charges may be substantial, or we may cease providing service to such foreign destination, which may cause prospective customers to not subscribe to our service or current customers to terminate their service from us. If
we are assessed additional charges on a retroactive basis, the use of our services results in significant intercarrier costs, we are unable or unwilling to offer services to certain foreign destinations, or prospective customers do not subscribe to
our service or current customers terminate service with us, it could limit our ability to grow our customer base which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Some carriers who terminate calls originated by our customers have sought, and others may seek, to impose termination charges on us that we
consider to be unreasonably high and have threatened to pursue, or have initiated or may initiate, claims against us to recover these charges. The outcome of these claims is uncertain. A recent decision by the FCC, if not overturned, could subject
CMRS carriers to a multitude of state commission proceedings







Index to Financial Statements

in which wireless termination rates are set without guidance from the FCC, and may be interpreted to leave open the prospect of CMRS carriers being liable for certain terminating compensation
charges even in the absence of negotiated agreements. A determination that we are liable for additional terminating compensation payments could subject us to additional claims by other carriers. Further, legal and business considerations may inhibit
our ability or willingness to block traffic to telecommunication carriers who demand unreasonable payments. In addition, certain transit carriers have taken the position that they can charge “market” rates for transit services, which rates
may in some instances be significantly higher than our current rates or the rates we are willing to pay. We may be obligated to pay these higher rates and/or purchase services from others, engage in direct connection, or pay terminating compensation
charges in the absence of negotiated agreements, which may result in higher costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.

A portion of our third-party customer service and technical support providers and a portion of our revenue are derived from geographic
areas susceptible to natural and other disasters.

Our success
depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel.

Recent political changes could have an adverse
effect on our relationship with our workforce.

None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement
or represented by an employee union. With the recent changes in the party affiliation of the President of the United States and the changes in composition







Index to Financial Statements

of Federal and state legislatures, legislation may be enacted which could impose additional requirements on us or make it easier for union organizing activities. If our employees become
represented by an employee union, it may make it more difficult for us to manage our business and to attract and retain new employees and may increase our cost of doing business. Having our employees become represented by an employee union or having
additional requirements related to our employees imposed on us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We are subject to numerous surcharges and fees from federal, state and local governments, and the applicability and the amount of these fees is subject to great uncertainty.

Concerns about whether wireless telephones pose
health and safety risks may lead to the adoption of new regulations or lawsuits that could decrease demand for our services.

If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase or safety concerns increase, consumers may be discouraged from
using wireless handsets or services, regulators may impose restrictions or increased requirements on the location and operation of cell sites, the use or design of wireless telephones, may restrict the use of wireless handsets while driving, may
require that all wireless telephones include an earpiece that would enable the use of wireless telephones without holding them against the user’s head and may give rise to additional lawsuits. Such legislation or regulation could increase the
cost of our wireless handsets, reduce demand for our products and services, increase other operating expenses, or could expose wireless providers to further litigation, which, even if not successful, may be costly to defend and could divert
management’s attention from our business, and could subject us to significant liability. In addition, compliance with such new requirements, and the associated costs, could adversely affect our business. The actual or perceived risk of radio
frequency emissions could adversely affect us through a reduction in customers or a reduction in the availability of financing in the future. If any of these risks occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and operating results.







Index to Financial Statements

System failures, security breaches and the unauthorized use of or interference with
our network could cause delays or interruptions of service, increase our cost of operations, and result in harm to our business reputation, which could cause us to lose customers.

To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable, trustworthy service. We rely upon our networks and the networks of other providers
to provide and support all of our services. Some of the risks to our networks and infrastructure, which may prevent us from providing reliable service, include:



•physical damage to outside plant facilities;



•power surges or outages;



•equipment failure;



•vendor or supplier failures or delays;



•software defects;



•viruses and other attacks by hackers;



•fraud;



•unauthorized use of our or our provider’s networks;



•human error;



•disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities, theft, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes,
floods, or fire; and



•failures in operational support systems.

Network disruptions, whether from natural causes or manmade, may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. Some
of our network is not fully redundant and our disaster relief plans may not be adequate or timely. The resulting interruption or failure to provide our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating
results.

Further, our administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of
fraud, or the costs to replace or repair the network or facilities (or portions thereof), may be substantial, thus causing our costs to provide service to increase. Fraudulent use of our network may also impact interconnection and long distance
costs, capacity costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for such fraud. We believe we have instituted safeguards to protect, detect and control such fraud; however, if such safeguards are not successful,
such fraud or increased costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and impair our service resulting in higher churn as our competitors systems may not experience similar problems.

Additionally, our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by
hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete, misappropriate or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. Due to the evolving
techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to our systems, we may not be able to implement adequate preventive measures timely or prevent such unauthorized access. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in harm to our
customers and legal actions against us and to additional harm perpetrated by third parties who are given access to the consumer data. The actual or perceived failure to our network security could damage our reputation and public perception of our
ability to provide a secure service, which could adversely affect our ability to retain customers, expose us to significant liability, sanctions, fines and litigation and have a resulting material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and operating results.







Index to Financial Statements

Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters

Our ability to provide service to our customers and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action.

We may be unable to obtain necessary governmental authorizations and permits on reasonable terms and conditions.

Our ability to operate our business is dependent on, among other things, our ability to obtain governmental authorizations and permits in
the planning, construction and operation of our networks. Obtaining governmental authorizations and permits can be very time sensitive and require compliance with administrative and procedural rules. To remain competitive, we must obtain such
authorizations and permits on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and on acceptable terms and conditions. If we cannot obtain the necessary governmental authorizations and permits at all or on reasonable terms and conditions, we may incur
substantial costs associated with finding an alternate, viable resolution, relocating sites and infrastructure, writing off cost and expenses associated with sites we are unable to use, and we may experience a delay or impairment in the provisioning
of our services which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We are subject to significant federal and state regulation.

The FCC regulates the licensing,
construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that the FCC or any state or local agencies having jurisdiction over
our business will not impose new or revised regulatory requirements, new or increased costs, or require changes in our current or planned operations. Indeed, the FCC has initiated a series of inquiries and rulemaking proceedings pertaining to the
wireless industry that could result in material changes in the applicable rules and policies. The FCC and state regulatory agencies also are increasingly







Index to Financial Statements

Our operations also are subject to various other regulations, including certain regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the
Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the FCC, and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of
these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, more limited spectrum holdings, concentration of operations in a few states in major metropolitan areas, and composition of our
current and prospective customer base, governmental regulations and orders can disproportionately increase our costs and affect our competitive position compared to other larger telecommunications providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace
or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business. As previously noted herein, a variety of changes in regulatory policies are under
consideration and depending upon the outcomes, the changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.







Index to Financial Statements

The structure of
the transaction with Royal Street Communications creates risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

qui tam

Qui tam

qui tam

qui tam

qui
tam







Index to Financial Statements

Royal Street owns certain licenses that we do not control and that may never be sold
to us.

Our agreements with Royal Street Communications, which were reviewed and approved by the FCC, allow us to
actively participate in the development of the Royal Street licenses and networks, and we have the right to purchase, on a wholesale basis, 85% of the engineered capacity provided by the Royal Street systems and to resell those services on a retail
basis under our brand. We, however, do not control Royal Street or the Royal Street licenses. C9, an unaffiliated third party, has the ability through June 2012 to require us to purchase, or put, all or part of its ownership interest in Royal Street
Communications, but we have no corresponding right to require C9 to sell to us, or call, its ownership interest in Royal Street Communications to us. C9 might not exercise its put rights or, if it does, we do not know when such exercise may occur.
Further, the FCC’s rules restrict our ability to acquire or control Royal Street during the period that Royal Street must maintain its eligibility as a DE, which is currently through December 2010. Thus, we cannot be certain that the Royal
Street licenses will be developed in a manner fully consistent with our business plan or our transition to our 4G platform or that C9 will act in ways that benefit us.

Spectrum for which we have been granted licenses as a result of AWS Auction 66 and Auction 73 is subject to certain legal challenges, which may ultimately result in the FCC revoking our licenses.

General Matters

Our stock price has historically been, and may continue to be, volatile and you may lose all or some of your investment.

The trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies generally have been highly volatile. In particular, the trading price of
our common stock has been, and is likely to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in reaction to a number of events and factors that may include, among other things:



•concentration of offered services and assets in the U.S., in particular limited major metropolitan areas;



•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ operating and financial results;



•changes in, or our failure to meet, securities analysts’ expectations;



•entry of new competitors into our markets or perceptions of increased price competition, including a price war;



•changes in our credit rating or future prospects;



•disruptions of our operations or service providers necessary to our network operations;



•seasonal or other variations in our customer base;







Index to Financial Statements

•introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors or changes in service plans or pricing by us or our competitors, including the
introduction of or changes to unlimited fixed-rate plans by our competitors;



•market perceptions relating to our services, network, handsets and deployment of our 4G platform;



•challenges to our intellectual property rights or claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others;



•pending or threatened litigation or regulatory investigations;



•adoption of or changes in governmental regulations and new accounting standards;



•conditions and trends in the communications and high technology markets;



•mergers, acquisitions, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;



•announcements by us or competitors of significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;



•sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers or affiliates or significant stockholders;



•volatility in stock market prices and volumes, which is particularly common among securities of telecommunications companies;



•the general state of the U.S. and world economies;



•the availability or perceived availability of additional capital in general and our access to such capital;



•availability of additional spectrum, whether by the announcement, commencement, bidding and closing of auctions for new spectrum or acquisitions of
other businesses;



•recruitment or departure of key personnel, management or board members;



•failure to timely file periodic reports; and



•adverse actions by the NYSE, including delisting.

In addition, the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which may continue for the foreseeable future. This volatility has had a significant impact on the
trading price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in the telecommunications industry. The trading price of our stock has fallen significantly since our initial public offering. These changes frequently occur irrespective of
the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the trading price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our business, financial condition and operating results. The price volatility
and continued decrease in our stock price could subject us to takeover bids, actions by the NYSE and possible losses for stockholders.

Your ownership interest could be diluted by future issuances of shares that our Board has the authority to issue, and such future issuances or sales of such shares may adversely affect the market price of MetroPCS’ common stock.

We have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option and performance award plans;
thus, when we issue shares under these plans, the shares generally can be freely sold in the public market subject to any requirements under the Securities Act. We also have granted certain of our stockholders the right to require us to register
their shares of our common stock. In the future, we may also file a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which would allow us to issue registered debt, equity and other securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and
guarantees of debt securities, in addition to the amounts already outstanding. The securities registered under this universal shelf registration statement could be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through
underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms and conditions







Index to Financial Statements

to be determined at the time of any offering. If we propose to register any additional securities under the Securities Act, either for our own account or for the account of security holders
exercising registration rights, the number of shares subject to registration could increase and your interest could be significantly diluted and the sale of these shares may have a negative impact on the market price for our common stock. Further,
the sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, or the possibility of such a sale, including sales by significant stockholders or executives of the Company, may reduce the market price of our common stock and could impede our ability to raise
future capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate.

If we fail to
manage our planned growth effectively and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.

The value
of our FCC licenses may drop in the future as a result of volatility in the marketplace and the sale of additional spectrum by the FCC.

The market value of FCC licenses has been subject to significant volatility in the past and the value of our licenses may continue to fluctuate based on market conditions, the availability of spectrum,
whether through consolidation in the industry, by FCC regulatory action or auction, the availability of buyers and sellers, and the inability to ascertain the value of any license due to such volatility. The impact of the availability of spectrum
from any future actions and auctions on license values is uncertain. There can be no assurance of the market value of our FCC licenses or that the market value of our FCC licenses will not be volatile in the future. If the value of our licenses was
to decline significantly, we could be forced to record non-cash impairment charges that could impact our ability to borrow additional funds. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and on the
carrying value of our licenses on our balance sheet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Declines in our operating performance could ultimately result in an impairment of our indefinite-lived assets, including FCC licenses, or our long-lived assets, including property and equipment.

We assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and certain intangible
assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess potential impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, annually and when there is
evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. The estimation of fair values or carrying values requires assumptions by management about factors that are highly uncertain and possibly volatile,
including future cash flow, stock prices, discount rates and other factors. If adverse economic conditions, poor consumer confidence, reduced consumer spending, volatile and decreasing stock prices, including our stock, continues for a period of
time or we do not achieve our planned operating results, these factors







Index to Financial Statements

may ultimately result in a non-cash impairment charge related to our long-lived assets and/or our indefinite-lived intangible assets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse
effect on our operating results and on the carrying value of our FCC licenses and/or our long-lived assets on our balance sheet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Changes in interpretations of accounting requirements, changes in industry practice, the identification of errors or changes in
management assumptions could require amendments to or restatements of financial information or disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC.

We prepare our consolidated financial statement in accordance with GAAP and file such financial statements with the SEC in accordance with the SEC’s rules and regulations. The preparation of
financial statements requires our management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates on historical experience, our perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other various assumptions and
information that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from estimates under different
assumptions or conditions. Changes in accounting requirements or in guidance or interpretations related to such requirements, changes in industry practice, the identification of errors or changes in estimates or assumptions could require
restatements of financial information or amendments to disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC.

Even
with our current levels of indebtedness, we may incur additional indebtedness.

Although we have
substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt under our senior secured credit facility and our indentures governing our 91/4% senior notes as market conditions permit, which could further
reduce the cash we have available to invest in our operations, as a result of our increased debt service obligations. The terms of the agreements governing our long-term indebtedness, subject to specified limitations, allow for the incurrence of
additional indebtedness by us and our subsidiaries. The more leveraged we become, the more we, and in turn the holders of our securities, become exposed to the risks described above in the risk factor entitled “Our operations require
continued capital expenditures and a failure to access additional capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.”

In order to provide additional flexibility, especially in the current economic climate, we intend to file a universal shelf registration
statement with the SEC to register debt, equity and other securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of debt securities. The securities registered under this universal shelf registration statement could be
offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms and conditions to be determined at the time of any offering. There can be no assurance that sufficient
funds will be available to us under our existing indebtedness or otherwise. Further, should we need to raise additional capital, the foreign ownership restrictions mandated by the FCC, and applicable to us, could limit our ability to attract
additional equity financing outside the United States. If we were able to obtain funds, it may not be on terms and conditions acceptable to us, which could limit or preclude our ability to pursue new opportunities, expand our service, upgrade our
networks, engage in acquisitions, or purchase additional spectrum, thus limiting our ability to expand our business which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us.

Our ability to meet our existing or future debt obligations and to reduce our indebtedness will depend on our future
performance and the other cash requirements of our business. Our performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic conditions, financial, competitive, business, political, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In
addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payment on our debt will depend on the satisfaction of covenants in our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing our 91/4% senior notes, other debt agreements and other agreements we may
enter into in the future. Specifically, we will need to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations at or above current levels
or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay all of our indebtedness in a timely manner. If we are unable to satisfy our financial
covenants or generate sufficient cash to timely repay our debt, the lenders could accelerate the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness. As a







Index to Financial Statements

result, we believe we may need to refinance all or a portion of our remaining existing indebtedness prior to its maturity. Disruptions in the financial markets or the general amount of debt
refinancings occurring at the same time could make it more difficult to obtain debt or equity financing on reasonable terms or at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to service our debt or refinance any or all of our indebtedness on
favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all.

Our senior secured credit facility and the
indentures governing our91/4%senior notes include restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility.

Our senior secured credit facility and indentures governing our 91/4% senior notes impose material operating and financial restrictions
on us. These restrictions, subject in certain cases to ordinary course of business and other exceptions, may limit our ability to engage in some transactions, including the following:



•incurring additional debt;



•paying dividends, redeeming capital stock or making other restricted payments or investments;



•selling or buying assets, properties or licenses;



•developing assets, properties or licenses which we have or in the future may procure;



•creating liens on assets;



•participating in future FCC auctions of spectrum or private sales of spectrum;



•engaging in mergers, acquisitions, business combinations, or other transactions;



•merging, consolidating or disposing of assets;



•entering into transactions with affiliates; and



•placing restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries (other than Royal Street) to pay dividends or make other payments.

Under the senior secured credit facility, we are also subject to financial maintenance covenants with respect to our senior secured leverage
and in certain circumstances total maximum consolidated leverage and certain minimum fixed charge coverage ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal on our outstanding
debt, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment or the economy. Any future debt that we incur may contain similar or more restrictive covenants.

Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our 91/4% senior notes, or certain current and any subsequent
financing agreements may result in an event of default under these agreements, which in turn may result in defaults or acceleration of obligations under these agreements and other agreements, giving our lenders the right to terminate any commitments
they had made to provide us with further funds and to require us to repay all amounts then outstanding.

Our
substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results and our senior creditors would have a prior secured claim to any collateral securing the debt owed to them.

Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund operations and significant planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to
generate cash in the future. Our ability to produce cash from operations is subject to a number of risks, including:



•introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors or changes in service plans or pricing by us or our competitors;



•our ability to maintain our current cost structure; and







Index to Financial Statements

•our ability to continue to grow our customer base and maintain our projected levels of churn.

Our substantial debt service obligations could have important material consequences to you, including the following:



•limiting our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions,
technological initiatives and other general corporate purposes;



•making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness;



•increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressure;



•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the telecommunications industry;



•limiting our ability to increase our capital expenditures to roll out new services or to upgrade our networks to new technologies, such as LTE;



•limiting our ability to purchase additional spectrum or develop new metropolitan areas in the future;



•reducing the amount of cash available for working capital needs, capital expenditures for existing and new markets and other corporate purposes by
requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness; and



•placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who are less leveraged than we are.

Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business as planned, which could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, a substantial portion of our debt, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, bears interest at variable rates. If market
interest rates increase, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. While we have and may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates in the future, any such
agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk, and any portion not subject to such agreements would have full exposure to higher interest rates.

Settlements, judgments, restraints on our current or future manner of doing business or legal costs resulting from pending or future litigation could have an adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, and operating results.

We are regularly involved in a number of legal proceedings before various
state and federal courts and the FCC. Such legal proceedings can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. Also, changes in the law or
legal interpretations can affect the outcome of existing rules. The assessment of the outcome of legal proceedings, including our potential liability, if any, is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events that are not
within our control. The outcome of litigation, including amounts ultimately received or paid upon settlement or other resolution of litigation and other contingencies may differ materially from amounts accrued in the financial statements. In
addition, litigation or similar proceedings could impose restraints on our current or future manner of doing business. Further, litigation could be costly to defend, divert management’s attention from our business, and could subject us to
substantial liability. Such potential outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, of operating results, or ability to do business.

We are currently controlled by a limited number of stockholders, and their interests may be different from yours.

A certain portion of the voting power of our capital stock is concentrated in the hands of a few stockholders some of which also have
representatives who are members of our board of directors. As a result, if such persons act together, they may have the ability to significantly influence whether required consents can be obtained and may have substantial control over all matters
submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, changes in our capital structure, governance, stockholder approvals and the approval of any







Index to Financial Statements

merger, consolidation or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. These stockholders may have different interests than the other holders of our common stock and may make decisions that
are adverse to your interests.

Our stockholder rights plan could prevent a change in control of our Company in
instances in which some stockholders may believe a change in control is in their best interests.

We have a stockholder
rights plan, or Rights Plan. Pursuant to the Rights Plan, we have issued to our stockholders one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of our common stock as of March 27, 2007. Each right, when exercisable, will entitle its
holder to purchase from us a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share of series A junior participating preferred stock at $66.67 per share. Our Rights Plan is intended to protect stockholders in the event of an unfair or coercive offer
to acquire our Company and to provide our board of directors with adequate time to evaluate unsolicited offers. The Rights Plan may prevent or make takeovers or unsolicited corporate transactions more difficult. The Rights Plan will cause
substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms that our board of directors does not believe are in our best interests and those of our stockholders and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that
stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares.

Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our stockholders, and we have waived our rights to certain corporate opportunities.

Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could delay or
prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.

Delaware law, as
well as our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, contains provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even if it were beneficial to our stockholders to do so. These provisions also could limit the price that
investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions:



•authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval to increase the
number of outstanding shares and deter or prevent a takeover attempt;



•prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;



•require stockholder meetings to be called only by the President or at the written request of a majority of the directors then in office and not the
stockholders;



•prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;



•provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; and







Index to Financial Statements

•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by
stockholders at stockholder meetings.

In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law
imposes restrictions on business combinations such as mergers between us and a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock.

Any
of the foregoing events or other events could cause revenues, customer additions, operating income, capital expenditures and other financial or statistical information to vary from our forward-looking estimates by a material amount.

