Item 1A. Risk Factors

In addition to the
other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business, financial condition and operating results or an investment in our common stock. Many of these risks are beyond
our control.

Although we describe below and elsewhere in this Annual Report the risks we consider to be the most material,
there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results in the future. In addition, past
performance may not be reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.

If any of the events, conditions or risks described below, individually or in combination, were to occur, our business, financial condition and operating results and/or cash flow could be materially
adversely affected.







Risks Related to Our Business

Our business strategy may not succeed in the long term.

Our tax inclusive plans make us susceptible to increases in taxes and regulatory fees.

We offer service plans that include applicable taxes and regulatory fees for a flat fee. The government and
regulatory agencies may increase the taxes and regulatory fees payable on our services and we may currently be at a greater risk from such increases because of budget shortfalls and regulatory policies. We do not have control over changes in tax
rates, laws, regulations or rulings, or federal and state tax assessments. If the government or regulatory agencies increase the taxes or regulatory fees that are attributable to our services, or change the services on which such taxes or regulatory
fees are to be paid, it could negatively impact the profitability of our services. If we attempted to pass through such increased taxes and regulatory fees to our customers, we could experience increased churn, decreased revenues or fewer customer
additions. If we experience lower profitability, lower margins, increased churn, or lower sales, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Our inability to maintain or strengthen our brands may reduce our ability to retain and attract customers, which could adversely
affect our business, financial condition and operating results.

With increased competition in the wireless
telecommunications industry, in particular in the fixed-price, unlimited use of paid-in-advance services, we believe marketing and promotional activities are critical to the success of the business and a strong brand and image is an essential part
of our marketing activities. Developing, promoting and maintaining our brand and image requires a consistent capital investment and expense and there can be no assurance that this investment in our brand and image or the promotion of our brand and
image will be successful. If we fail to develop, promote and maintain a strong brand and image or we are unsuccessful in promoting our brands it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

A failure to meet the demands of our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating
results.

Customer demand for our products and services could be impacted by numerous factors including the different
types of products and services offered, service content, features, data speeds, technology, coverage, compatible handset options, distribution, service areas, network operability and quality, customer perceptions, customer care levels and the prices
and range of service plans and products. Managing these factors and customers’ expectations of these factors is essential in attracting and retaining customers. We continually incur costs in order to improve and enhance our products and
services to remain competitive and to keep up with our customer demand, which include costs to expand the capacity and coverage of our network, costs to replace or migrate to new technology platforms,







vendors or services, costs to enhance or upgrade our networks, including costs to upgrade to long term evolution, or 4G LTE, or other fourth generation technologies, costs to purchase additional
spectrum and necessary infrastructure equipment, costs to implement new or different services, service plans, handsets and related accessories to meet customer needs and costs to secure the necessary governmental approvals and renewals for our
operations. Delays or failure to purchase additional spectrum or to make these enhancements to our products, services or network, could limit our ability to meet our customer demands or customer expectations. Further, even if we continually upgrade
and maintain our networks and enhance our products and services, there can be no assurance that our existing customers will not switch to another wireless provider or that we will be able to attract new customers. If we are unable to meet our
customer demands or customer expectations, including providing customers with reliable and compatible network devices, or manage our sales, distribution, advertising, customer support, billing and collection, we may have difficulty attracting and
retaining customers, which could increase our churn and operating costs and decrease our revenue, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Similarly, if our vendors deliver 4G LTE products and services that do not work as anticipated, fail to meet customer expectations, or
fail to operate properly, we may not receive revenue on our investment in 4G LTE. For example, if a 4G LTE handset is lacking in certain features that our customers expect, our existing and potential customers may not purchase the handsets. Further,
we presently provide limited subsidies for handsets to our customers, so the price of the handset may also reduce the demand for the handsets and we will incur an expense equal to the difference between the price we pay for the handset and the price
we receive from the customer. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We may not be successful in continuing to grow our customer base.

Our business plan assumes continued growth in our customer base. Our ability to grow our customer base and achieve the customer
penetration levels that we currently believe are possible with our business model in our markets is subject to a number of risks, including:



•customer demand for our products and services and our inability to meet those customer expectations and demands;



•our inability or our supplier’s inability to obtain or offer and provide products or services which our current or prospective customers demand,
want, expect or need;



•increased competition from existing competitors or new competitors;



•our inability to differentiate our services from the services offered by our competitors;



•higher than anticipated churn in our markets or lower than anticipated gross adds in our markets;



•our inability to increase our network capacity in areas we currently serve to meet increasing customer demand;



•our inability to offer competitive data services;



•limitations in our customer service, billing and other systems;



•our inability to manage inventory and adequately forecast our inventory needs, such as handset quantity, quality and type;



•our inability to provide service in areas demanded by our current and prospective customers;



•our inability to attract and retain indirect agents and dealers for our products and services;



•our inability to increase the relevant coverage areas in our existing markets, to expand our roaming arrangements to areas that are important to our
customers or to allow us to offer services at rates which are attractive to our current and prospective customers;



•unfavorable United States economic conditions, which may have a disproportionate negative impact on certain portions of our customer base including an
impact on their ability to buy new handsets or pay for our services;







•changes in the demographics of our markets; and



•adverse changes in the legislative and regulatory environment that may limit our ability to differentiate our services or grow our customer base.

If we are unable to achieve the aggregate levels of customer penetration that we currently believe are
possible with our business model, our ability to continue to increase our customer base and revenues at the rates we currently expect may be limited and we may fail to achieve additional economies of scale. Any failure to achieve the penetration
levels we currently believe are possible with our business model and to successfully increase our customer base could limit our ability to repay our indebtedness and may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and
operating results.

Our business is seasonal and our operating results for future periods will be affected negatively if
we fail to have strong customer growth in the first and fourth quarters.

Our business is seasonal and reflective of
promotional activity, competition in the industry and the existing economic conditions. Our largest numbers of subscribers are typically added in the first and fourth quarters. However, sales activity and churn can be strongly affected by the launch
of new and surrounding metropolitan areas, by the introduction of new price plans, and by, promotional activity, all of which can reduce or outweigh certain seasonal effects. If we fail to meet our expectations for customer additions in the first or
fourth quarter, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results for future periods.

Failing to manage our churn rate or experiencing a higher rate of customer turnover than we have forecasted could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.

Our customers do not have long-term contracts and can discontinue their service at any time without penalty or
advance notice to us. In addition, as handset prices continue to decline, they become more disposable for our customers, who may then change wireless providers or phones, increasing our churn. Our rate of customer churn can be affected by a number
of factors, including the following:



•network issues, including network coverage, network reliability, technology upgrades, dropped and blocked calls, data speeds, network responsiveness,
and network availability;



•geographic coverage, including roaming coverage at affordable rates, which has historically been less extensive than our competitors;



•affordability and general economic conditions;



•supplier or vendor failures;



•customer perceptions of and demand for our products, services and offerings;



•customer care concerns, including reliance on automated customer service solutions that do not provide customers with the one on one attention they
desire;



•our ability to differentiate our services from our competitors;



•our rate of growth;



•our rate plans, distribution model, and incentives to our direct dealers and agents;



•handset, application, and content selection and issues, including lack of access, or early access, to the newest handsets, innovative wireless
applications, and content, handset prices and handset problems;



•the types, make-up and nature of our service plans and our marketing and promotional offers;



•wireless number portability requirements that allow customers to keep their wireless phone numbers when switching between service providers;







•our inability to offer bundled services or services offered by our competitors;



•our lack of 4G LTE broadband wireless network over all of our current CDMA service area and in our roaming service areas;



•delays or problems in our roll-out of 4G LTE; and



•competition and competitive offers by other wireless broadband mobile service providers.

We cannot assure you that our strategies to address customer churn will be successful. In addition, we may not be able to profitably
replace customers who leave our service or replace them at all. If we experience a churn rate higher than we expect or fail to replace lost customers, we could experience reduced revenues and increased marketing costs to attract replacement
customers required to sustain our business plan, which could reduce our profit margin and could reduce the cash available to construct and operate new metropolitan areas, to expand coverage and capacity in existing metropolitan areas, or to upgrade
our networks to 4G LTE, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Our operations require continued capital expenditures and a failure to access additional capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Our business strategy involves expanding into and competing in major metropolitan areas, all of which have
significant established competition from other providers. To compete effectively, we must continue to upgrade and enhance our network and services. As a result, we have invested and expect to continue to invest a significant amount of capital in the
future to construct, maintain, upgrade and operate our network, billing, customer care and information systems, to implement our business plans, including our 4G LTE network, and to support future growth of our wireless business. No assurance can be
given that our future capital expenditures will generate a positive return or that we will have adequate capital available to finance future upgrades and enhancements to our network.

Failure to obtain suitable financing when needed could, among other things, result in
our inability to continue to expand our businesses as planned or to meet competitive challenges; forego strategic opportunities; delay and/or reduce network deployments, upgrades, and capital







expenditures, operations, spectrum acquisitions and investments; and restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity or sell additional equity or seek additional debt financing. We
cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our
indebtedness or to fund our working capital and other liquidity needs, or at all. Further, as our operations grow, it may be more difficult to adapt and modify our business plan based on the availability of funding. If we incur significant
additional indebtedness, or if we do not continue to generate sufficient cash from our operations, our credit ratings could be adversely affected, which would likely increase our future borrowing costs and could affect our ability to access
additional capital.

We face intense competition from other telecommunications providers and new entrants in the
marketplace.

Some of our competitors have, or may in the future, take advantage of governmental loan, grant or credit programs, or universal service
fund payments which may allow them to offer services for lower prices, have lower costs, or provide service in areas that may be uneconomical for us to serve without taking advantage of such programs. If we choose not to, or are unable to,
participate in such governmental programs and our competitors participate in such programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.

We may face additional competition from existing or new entrants as a result of future FCC auctions of spectrum and/or through
legislative change or actions by the FCC allowing the development of new products and services by existing competitors and allowing other non-telecommunications businesses to enter the industry.

The FCC in the past has taken, and may in the future take, steps to make additional spectrum available for wireless services. Any auction
and licensing of new spectrum, or relaxation of requirements on existing spectrum licenses may result in new competitors and/or allow existing competitors to acquire additional, or make use of existing, spectrum, which could allow them to offer
services that we may not be able to offer, or offer on a competitive basis, with the licenses we hold due to technological or economic constraints. For example, in March 2010, the FCC released its National Broadband Plan which recommends that the
FCC make available 500 MHz of spectrum for broadband wireless services within the next ten years of which 300 MHz is recommended to be made newly available for mobile use within five years. Of this 300 MHz of spectrum, 70 MHz is recommended to come
through the auction of allocated, but unassigned spectrum, which could occur within the next 18 months. In addition, 110 MHz is recommended to become available through the revision of existing technical and service rules for wireless communication
services, or WCS, and mobile satellite services which also could occur within the next 18 months. Further, 120 MHz of spectrum may become available from digital television broadcasters through an incentive auction which is recommended to be held in
24 to 36 months, assuming the FCC receives congressional







The
continuing consolidation in the wireless industry through mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures is creating increased competition and marketing initiatives.

We may face
increasing competitive pricing and service bundling, which could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and the profitability of our services.







offerings in the marketplace and falling market prices, we have added, and in the future may be required to add, additional select features to our existing service plans, change the geographic
areas included in our roaming, long-distance and other products and services, reduce our prices, and change our service plans. We may also consider additional targeted promotional activities, reduced pricing, subsidizing the cost of handsets, or
increasing commission payments to our indirect dealers as we evaluate and respond to the competitive environment going forward. We cannot control the pricing decisions of our competitors and many may continue to reduce pricing, which combined with
discounts afforded such competitors and their bundled feature capability, we expect that this increased competition may result in more competitive pricing, slower growth, higher costs and increased churn of our customer base, as well as the
possibility of having to change our service plans in response to customer demands, preferences and demographic trends, increase our handset subsidies, increase our dealer payments, and increase our marketing and distribution costs, which could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to respond timely to competition and marketing strategies could reduce revenue, market share and net income, which would have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and operating results.

We may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to new
marketing and sales initiatives launched by our competitors.

Further, in general, we also do not spend as much on advertising and marketing as some of our competitors. We
generally have had, and anticipate in the future having, less sales and marketing resources than our competitors, and we have spent, and anticipate spending, less on advertising and marketing than our competitors. We generally do not have the
resources to respond to all advertising and marketing initiatives of our competitors and consequently our efforts may be ineffective, or our response may be inadequate to the competitive initiatives, which may allow our competitors to gain
competitive share and to have an effect on our brand and sales and marketing efforts. We may not have time to conduct extensive customer focus groups or sales trials before launching our sales and marketing initiatives companywide. As a result, our
initial sales and marketing initiatives may not adequately respond to our competitors’ sales and marketing initiatives or meet customer expectations or demands. If we are unable to respond quickly enough or effectively to new marketing and
sales initiatives launched by our competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.

We may not successfully manage our handset inventories to meet the demands of our customers.

Our marketing and purchasing personnel are required to coordinate their activities to ensure that our distribution channels have adequate sales stock of handsets and other add ons to support our sales and
marketing initiatives. Management of inventory balances requires accurate forecasting of customer growth and demand. If we fail to maintain an adequate sales stock of the appropriate model and type of handsets to meet the demands and preferences of
our customers and to support our sales and marketing initiatives, we could have excess customer demand for handsets with only a limited supply or an excess supply of handsets for which we have limited or no demand. Additionally, we may fail to
predict and select the appropriate handsets for our marketing and sales initiatives resulting in us not meeting our customer’s demands, lost sales opportunities or a buildup of inventory that could not be sold easily. Any failure to manage and
control our supply inventories could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and our business, financial condition, and operating results.







We may not be able to respond to the rapid technological changes occurring in the
wireless industry.

Our continued
success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these and future technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, products and services that meet customer demands. For us to keep pace with these technological changes and
remain competitive, we may continue to make significant capital expenditures in our networks, acquire additional spectrum, and design and offer new services. Customer acceptance of the products, applications, content, and services that we offer will
continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings and those offered by our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technology on a timely basis, on satisfactory terms, or on our
spectrum, or that we will have adequate spectrum, or be able to acquire additional spectrum, to offer new services or implement new technologies. If we do not offer these applications, content, or services, we may have difficulty attracting and
retaining customers. Further, we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We also cannot be certain that the choices we make regarding technology and new service offerings will prove to be successful in the marketplace or
will achieve their intended results. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We are dependent on certain network technology improvements, which may not occur or may be materially delayed.







on average have more spectrum in each of the metropolitan areas in which we operate, or plan to operate, and may have spectrum with better propagation characteristics. We have deployed and are
selling 4G LTE services in all except one of our major metropolitan areas. Our decision to develop 4G LTE technology has and will continue to require significant capital expenditures. In some cases, because of the limited amount of spectrum
available to us in certain metropolitan areas, we will be required to deploy 4G LTE on 1.4 or 3 MHz channels adjacent to our existing CDMA network in those metropolitan areas. This deployment will require engineering solutions, which may not work as
anticipated, or which may take longer to deploy than anticipated. We currently are dependent on a limited number of infrastructure and equipment providers to assist us in the development and deployment of our 4G LTE network and to manufacture
equipment for use on our network. Our plans to upgrade our network to 4G LTE technology may result in additional risks and expenditures such as, among other things:



•inability to timely develop and engineer design and network changes for the deployment and offering of 4G LTE services;



•reliance on existing engineering staff in each of our metropolitan markets to oversee our 4G LTE deployment;



•delay in the deployment of our 4G LTE networks due to lack of necessary equipment and products being designed and manufactured or due to limited
staffing resources and lack of proper coordination across all our markets;



•network and system compatibility issues;



•unanticipated and unforeseen costs or higher costs attributable to the lack of experience with 4G LTE technology and the implementation of the
deployment of 4G LTE technology and the maintenance of the 4G LTE technology and network;



•inability to acquire or lease additional cell sites or lease additional space at existing cell sites needed for expansion;



•obtaining necessary permits and regulatory approvals or third-party approvals for network construction, implementation and deployment;



•possible quality and reliability issues of the 4G LTE network once deployed due to integration, compatibility or coverage concerns;



•dependency on a limited number of providers for necessary engineering, design and manufacture of technology, equipment and products compatible with 4G
LTE technology; and



•ongoing improvements with digital technology and shorter development cycles for new equipment, technology and products with the everchanging customer
requirements and preferences.

In the meantime, our limited spectrum may require us to lease more cell sites
to provide equivalent service, spend greater capital compared to our competitors, deploy more expensive network equipment, such as six-sector antennas, make more extensive use of DAS systems, deploy equipment sooner, or make us more dependent on
technological development, than our competitors. There can be no assurance that we can lease adequate tower sites or additional spectrum, have access to DAS systems, or that our suppliers will undertake the necessary and timely technological
developments. Moreover, once deployed on a commercial basis, our 4G LTE technology may not perform as expected or deliver the quality and types of services or performance we expect. We cannot assure you that necessary quantities of equipment
and compatible devices will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or will operate on our network or will provide the customer with the quality and quantity of features desired, nor that when delivered such equipment and devices
will be at cost-effective prices.

If the anticipated development and deployment of our 4G LTE technology improvements are not
achieved, or are not achieved in the projected timeframes, or at the costs we anticipate or can afford, or are not developed by our existing suppliers, we may not have adequate spectrum in certain metropolitan areas, which may limit our ability to
increase our customer base, may inhibit our ability to achieve additional economies of scale, may limit our ability to offer new services offered by our competitors, may require us to spend considerably more capital and incur more







operating expenses than our competitors with more spectrum, and may force us to purchase additional spectrum at a potentially material cost. If our network infrastructure vendors do not supply
such improvements, or materially delay the delivery of such improvements, and other network equipment manufacturers are able to develop such technology, we may be at a material competitive disadvantage to our competitors and we may be required to
change network infrastructure vendors, which would result in lost time and expense. Further, our 4G LTE expansion may result in the degradation of our existing services. There can be no assurance that we can deploy and implement our 4G LTE services
timely and at a level that will meet customer expectations, provide wireless broadband mobile data service on a profitable basis, that we will be able to enter into roaming arrangements for 3G/4G services on economical terms or at all, or that
vendors will develop and make available to companies of our size popular applications and handsets with features, functionality and pricing desired by customers. These risks could reduce our customer growth, increase our costs of providing services
and increase our churn, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We may be unable to expand our 4G LTE services beyond our existing service area to meet customer expectations.

We may have difficulty meeting the demands placed on our network by
data products.

We are increasingly selling, and may in the future sell even larger numbers of, handsets and devices,
such as devices using the Android operating system, that are placing, and may in the future place, a higher demand on our existing CDMA and 4G LTE networks than handsets we have historically sold. We may not be able to satisfy the demands that these
devices place on our network, we may not be able to profitably provide the data services used by these devices, and these devices may cause network congestion and issues with respect to our existing customers. If we are unable to satisfy the demands
of these new devices in our existing CDMA and 4G LTE networks, we are unable to offer these services profitably, or these devices cause network congestion and issues with respect to our existing customers, we may lose customers. In addition, in
order to meet the demands of these new devices we may be required to spend significant capital to build additional network capacity, lease additional sites, build additional DAS systems, purchase additional spectrum, or undertake other costs and
expenses which could increase our costs. If we experience any of these problems or have to undertake additional costs and expenses to meet the demands placed on our network by these devices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and operating results.

We may be unable to successfully develop and incorporate wireless data
services profitably into our service offerings in the future.

Wireless broadband mobile data services are
increasingly becoming a meaningful component of many wireless broadband mobile carriers’ strategies and financial results. Considerable demand has been shown for high-speed data services offered by other carriers. The national wireless
broadband mobile carriers have invested (and we expect will continue to invest) significant resources to develop and deliver these new data services to their customers. As market prices for wireless voice services continue to decline, if we are
unable to offer such new data services or offer such services on competitive terms, we may not have sufficient revenue to offset the decline in wireless voice revenues. Similarly, as customers increasingly demand wireless broadband mobile data
services as part of the core feature set of their wireless services, the failure to offer such services or offer them on a competitive basis with our competitors could reduce sales and increase churn. Currently, we offer certain limited wireless
data services that are not as robust as those offered by some of our competitors and may never be.







We may be unable to acquire additional spectrum in
the future at a reasonable cost.

Further, if we participate in a future FCC auction for additional
spectrum, the FCC anti-collusion rules place certain restrictions on business communications and disclosures by participants in an FCC auction. These anti-collusion rules may restrict the normal conduct of our business and/or disclosures relating to
an FCC auction, which could last three to six months or more. These restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We may undertake mergers, acquisitions or strategic transactions that could result in operating difficulties, dilution and distraction from our business.

We may in the future expand the markets in which we operate or the services provided through the acquisition of selected spectrum or
operating markets from other telecommunication service providers, the acquisition of additional spectrum from FCC auctions or auctions in other countries, the acquisition of other telecommunication







service providers or through other strategic transactions. Any such transactions can entail risk, may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources, may divert
management’s attention, and may create various operating difficulties and expenditures, among which may include:



•uncertain revenues and expenses, including difficulty in achieving projected synergies, with the result that we may not realize the growth in revenues,
anticipated cost structure, profitability, or return on investment that we expect;



•difficulty integrating the acquired technologies, services, spectrum, products, operations and personnel of the acquired businesses while maintaining
uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures;



•disruption of ongoing business;



•impact on our cash and available credit lines for use in financing future growth and working capital needs;



•obligations imposed on us by counterparties in such transactions that limit our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to compete in
geographic areas or specific lines of business, or other aspects of our operational flexibility;



•increasing cost and complexity of assuring the implementation and maintenance of adequate internal control and disclosure controls and procedures, and
of obtaining the reports and attestations required under the Exchange Act;



•loss of or inability to attract and retain key personnel;



•impairment of relationships with employees, customers or vendors;



•difficulties in consolidating and preparing our financial statements due to poor accounting records, weak financial controls and, in some cases,
procedures at acquired entities not based on U.S. GAAP;



•inability to predict or anticipate market developments and capital commitments relating to the acquired company, business or technology; and



•with respect to any spectrum acquisition in a foreign country, difficulties and expenditures associated with operating in a foreign jurisdiction.

The anticipated benefit to us of any strategic transaction, acquisition or merger may never materialize.
Future investments, acquisitions or dispositions, or similar arrangements could result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the reduction in our cash reserves, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities or amortization
expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Any such transactions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available
on acceptable terms, or at all.

Additionally, our expected growth and any acquisitions or business combinations will also
require stringent control of costs, diligent management of our network infrastructure and our growth, increased capital requirements, increased costs associated with marketing activities, the attraction and retention of qualified management,
technical and sales personnel and the training and management of new personnel, and the design and implementation of financial and management controls. Our growth will, and any acquisitions or business combinations may, challenge the capacity and
abilities of existing employees and future employees at all levels of our business and the controls and systems we have implemented. Failure to successfully manage our growth and development or any acquisitions or business combinations could
increase our costs and adversely affect our level of service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Business, political, regulatory and economic factors may significantly affect our operations, the manner in which we conduct our business and slow our rate of growth.

In the recent past, the United States economy has deteriorated significantly, unemployment rates have increased and such conditions may
continue for the foreseeable future. Our business is being and could be further affected by such economic conditions, unemployment rates, as well as consumer spending, in the areas in which we operate,







including Michigan. These factors are outside of our control. If economic conditions and unemployment rates continue to deteriorate, or remain depressed, our existing and future customer base may
be disproportionately and adversely affected due to the generally lower per capita income of our customer base (versus the national facility-based wireless broadband mobile carriers). In addition, a number of our customers work in industries which
may be disproportionately affected by an economic slowdown or recession, including the auto industry. More generally, adverse changes in the economy are likely to negatively affect our customers’ ability to pay for existing services and to
decrease their interest in purchasing new services. These same economic conditions may negatively impact our third-party service providers who experience cash flow problems, liquidity concerns or are unable to obtain or refinance credit such that
they may no longer be able to operate. The resulting impact of such economic conditions on our customers, on consumer and discretionary spending and on our product and service providers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our
products, services and on our business, financial condition and operating results.

The FCC, in March 2010, announced its
National Broadband Plan. In it, the FCC has indicated that it plans to require all 700 MHz licensees to provide roaming and priority access to public safety first responders. This could cause us to have to provide service to public safety users and
to deny service to our own customers at times of national emergency. This could cause our customers using our 700 MHz spectrum to leave our service.

Additionally, there have been significant changes in the political climate and in the composition of the FCC as a result of the outcome of recent state elections and the Presidential election in the
United States. Several recent actions indicate that the FCC will be proactive in the regulation of wireless services, and we cannot predict with any certainty the nature and extent of the changes in federal, state and local laws, regulations and
policy we will face, or the effect of such elections on any pending legislation. For example, changes in the political climate could affect the extent to which further consolidation of wireless carriers will be approved by the government and such
changes could reduce our strategic merger and acquisition options. Further, regulatory requirements, such as net neutrality, could impose costs on us or limit our ability to provide our services in a cost effective or profitable way. Any changes in
regulation, new policy initiatives, increased taxes or any other changes in state or federal law may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We are exposed to counterparty risk in our senior secured credit facility and related interest rate protection agreements.

We have entered into interest rate protection agreements to manage the Company’s interest rate risk exposure by
fixing a portion of the interest expense we pay under our senior secured credit facility; however, there can be no assurance that these will be effective or that we will be able to continue to enter into these agreements at a reasonable cost. There
has been considerable turmoil in the world economy and banking markets, which could affect whether the counterparties to such interest rate protection agreements are able to honor their agreements. If the counterparties fail to honor their
commitments, we could experience higher interest rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

The investment of our substantial cash balances are subject to risk.

We can and have historically invested our substantial cash balances in, among other things, securities issued and fully guaranteed by the
United States or any state, highly rated commercial paper and auction rate securities, money market funds meeting certain criteria, and demand deposits. We are exposed to risks resulting from deterioration in the financial condition of financial
institutions holding our cash deposits, decisions of the investment managers of the money market funds and defaults in securities underlying the funds. These investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. Such risks may
result in a loss of liquidity, substantial impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investment in the long-term, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
operating results and liquidity.

We currently have an exclusive arrangement with our billing services vendor.

Amdocs Software Systems Limited and Amdocs, Inc., or Amdocs, subject to certain exclusions, is our exclusive vendor
for billing services in North America. If Amdocs does not perform its obligations under the agreement, or ceases to continue to develop, or substantially delays development of, new features or billing services, or ceases to support its existing
billing systems, we may be unable to secure alternative billing services from another provider or providers in a timely manner, for a reasonable cost or otherwise, which could cause us, among other things, not to be able to bill our customers,
provide customer care, grow our business, report financial results, or manage our business and we may have increased churn, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.







We may be unable to enforce or protect our intellectual property and intellectual
property rights.

We own, license, develop and use intellectual property, including trade secrets, in our business.
While we engage in measures to protect our intellectual property, such measures offer limited protection and may not prevent the misappropriation of our information or our proprietary rights. Further, the enforcement of our intellectual property
rights may require legal action, which may be costly and may not be successful, even if our rights are misappropriated or infringed.

We cannot assure you that any patent, trademark or service mark, whether pending or future, or any application for such will be granted or that any existing patent, trademark or service mark will not be
infringed, challenged or invalidated or that any such registration will adequately protect our brand, products or image. If any of our intellectual property rights are infringed, challenged or invalidated, the costs associated with the protection
and attempted enforcement of our rights and the potential loss of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We and our suppliers may be subject to claims of infringement.







Substantially all of our CDMA network infrastructure equipment is manufactured or
provided by a single infrastructure vendor.

Substantially all of our 4G
LTE infrastructure equipment and initial dual mode CDMA/LTE handsets are manufactured or provided by one vendor.

We use
a single provider for most of our domestic and international long distance services.

We currently use a single
provider for most of the domestic and international long distance services that we provide to our customers under a long-term contract. This arrangement requires us to send a significant portion of our domestic and international long distance
traffic to the provider for transmission and termination. If the provider experiences service outages or other problems affecting its services, our customers may have difficulty completing domestic and international calls. As all of our service
plans include domestic long distance services, any such disruption could have a significant effect on our customers which may cause them to become dissatisfied with our service. In addition, one of our services also includes international long
distance and a disruption in that service or the cessation of service to destinations which our customers want to call, could cause our customers to leave our service. If substantial numbers of customers are dissatisfied or leave our service it
could result in higher churn which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.







We rely on third parties to provide products, software, applications and services that
are integral to our business.

Sophisticated financial, management, information, network management, and billing
systems are vital to our business. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to develop and to provide all of these systems. We have entered into agreements with third-party suppliers to provide products, software, applications,
and services that are integral to our business, such as customer care, product distribution, content development, financial reporting, network management, network infrastructure equipment and services and billing and payment processing. We purchase
a substantial portion of the products, software and services from only a few major suppliers and we generally rely on one or two key vendors in each area. Some of these agreements may be terminated upon relatively short notice. In addition, our
plans for developing and implementing our financial information and billing systems rely to some extent on the design, development and delivery of products, software, applications, and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems
is dependent on agreements with third-party vendors and these systems may not perform as anticipated.

If our suppliers
terminate their agreements with us, experience interruptions or other problems delivering quality products, software, applications or services to us on a timely basis or at all, or enter bankruptcy, it may cause us to have difficulty providing
services to or billing our customers, developing, delivering, and deploying new products (including sufficient volume and types) and services and/or upgrading, maintaining, improving our networks, or generating accurate or timely financial reports
and information. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement services on economically attractive terms, or at all. The loss, termination or expiration of these agreements or
our inability to renew them at all or on favorable terms or negotiate agreements with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business. Our reliance on others to provide essential products, software, applications, and services on our
behalf also gives us less control over the efficiency, timeliness and quality of these products, software and services.

The success of our business is dependent on the development of products compatible with the services deployed by us.

We rely heavily on indirect distribution channels.

Unlike many of our competitors that rely upon “big box” retailers and exclusive partners, our business model utilizes and
relies upon indirect distribution outlets including a range of local, regional and national mass-market dealers and retailers allowing us to reach the largest number of potential customers in our metropolitan areas at a relatively low cost.
Approximately 90% of the sales of our handsets and services occur through these indirect distribution channels. Many of our dealers own and operate more than one location and may operate in more than one of our metropolitan areas. Because these
third party dealers are the primary contact between us and our customers in many instances, including accepting payment for our services on our behalf, they play an important role in our ability to grow our business and in customer retention. With
the recent deterioration of the United States economy, employment rates, and the credit markets, which may continue for the foreseeable future, some of our dealers and vendors have experienced, and may in the future, experience problems and may be
unable to continue their operations or secure funds for their continued operations or to grow their operations. Further, due to the present







economic conditions, we may be unable to find participants in our local markets that would qualify or be able to open a location to replace closed operations. Moreover, since we rely on such
third parties to provide some of our services, any bankruptcy, termination, switch or disruption in service by such third parties or diminution in the number of such third parties could be costly and affect operating efficiencies and our ability to
attract and retain customers which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Additionally, as more of our competitors use third party dealers to market and sell their products and services, competition for dealers is intense and larger competitors are able to offer higher
commissions and other benefits. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining dealers and any inability to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain customers, which could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We and our indirect dealers face direct competition with
some of our other indirect distribution agents and dealers.

Many of our indirect distribution outlets, primarily
local dealers, are not our exclusive dealers, which means that these dealers may sell other third party products and services in direct competition with us and other indirect dealers in the same location. Additionally, we strive to ensure that our
customers have access to a wide variety of products and services within their geographic area, which means some of our dealers may be located within close proximity to one another and compete for the same customer base. As a result of the direct
competition we encounter in some of our dealer locations and the potential for competition among our local dealers, we may experience reduced sales in certain geographic areas, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and operating results.

Our agreements with our indirect distribution agents may be terminated on relatively
short notice.

We have agreements with our third party indirect distribution agents to market and sell our products
and services. These agreements can be terminated by us or by such indirect distribution agents on relatively short notice. Our competitors are focused on increasing their distribution, and the relatively short termination period may allow our
competitors to move our indirect distribution agents to their products and services. In addition, if the economy deteriorates or does not further improve, some of these indirect distribution agents may cease to operate. If we lose our indirect
distribution, we may have difficulty finding new companies to distribute our products and services, or we may be forced to increase the amount of payments we make to our indirect distribution agents. If any of these occur, it could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operational results.

We utilize a limited number of cell site
and DAS providers.

If our master agreement with one of our cell site or DAS providers were to terminate, or if the cell site or DAS system
providers were to experience severe financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy, or if one of these cell site or DAS system providers were unable to support our use of its cell sites or DAS systems, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the
affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases and DAS systems with a limited number of cell site and DAS system providers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results if we
are unable to renew our expiring leases or DAS system agreements with these companies either on terms comparable to those we have today or at all. In addition, the tower industry has continued to consolidate. If any of the companies from which we
lease towers or DAS systems were to consolidate







with other cell site or DAS systems companies, they may be unable to honor obligations to us or have the ability to raise prices, which could materially affect our profitability. If a material
number of cell sites or DAS systems were no longer available for our use, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

We are increasingly focused on providing nationwide service, but we may be unable to obtain the roaming and other services we need from other carriers at rates that allow us to provide such
nationwide service and still remain competitive.

If we are unable to meet our customers’ expectations for nationwide coverage for the services they want, it could reduce the number
of new customers we add to our services and may increase our churn. We also may be unable to provide roaming for certain services, such as 4G LTE data, at all or the rates may not be acceptable to our customers. If our customers demand roaming
services, such as 4G LTE roaming, and we are unable to provide such roaming at all or at cost effective rates, we could have increased churn, decreased growth, and lower revenue and profits. Further, if the rates we pay for roaming increase, it
could reduce the profits we make on our services, or require us to cease providing such services on an unlimited basis. A termination of existing roaming agreements or a significant increase in the prices we pay for roaming could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Further, as the wireless industry has
consolidated, which may continue in the future, we may have increased difficulty entering into new roaming agreements with other technically compatible carriers offering comparable quality of service or replacing our existing roaming agreements. In
addition, we believe the rates we are charged by certain carriers in some instances are higher than the rates these carriers charge to other roaming partners that may have large call volumes or certain affiliations.

Future regulatory changes may also affect our ability to enter into new or maintain existing roaming agreements on competitive
terms.

Our ability to replicate other carriers’ roaming service offerings at rates that will make us, or allow
us to be, competitive is uncertain at this time. The FCC recently clarified that broadband commercial mobile radio service, or CMRS, providers must offer automatic roaming voice and short message service, or SMS, service, both in and out of a
requesting carrier’s market, on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, but found that a CMRS provider is not required to offer roaming services if the request is not reasonable. The FCC will presume in the first instance that a request
for automatic roaming is reasonable if the requesting carrier provides technologically compatible services. However, in assessing whether a denial is reasonable, the FCC will consider the request based on a totality of the circumstances and may use
a number of factors, including the extent of the requesting carrier’s build-out where it holds spectrum, and whether alternative roaming partners are available, to determine whether a particular roaming request can be denied. The FCC also has
not extended full roaming rights to roaming services that are classified as information services (such as high-speed wireless Internet access services), or for roaming services that







are not classified as CMRS (such as non-interconnected services). If we are unable to enter into or maintain roaming agreements for roaming services that our customers desire at reasonable rates,
including in areas where we have licenses or lease spectrum but have not constructed facilities, we may be unable to compete effectively and attract and retain customers, and we may lose revenues. We also may be unable to continue to receive roaming
services in areas in which we hold licenses or lease spectrum after the expiration or termination of our existing roaming agreements. We also may be obligated to allow customers of other technically compatible carriers to roam automatically on our
systems, which may enhance their ability to compete with us. If these risks occur, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Further, our roaming agreements and services may be with certain of our competitors and may create actual or potential conflicts of
interest, and may cause the parties to make decisions or take actions that do not reflect the other’s best interests. None of these agreements restricts us from entering into similar arrangements with other parties, but certain rights could be
lost or agreements terminated if we enter into a similar relationship.

We may incur higher than anticipated
intercarrier compensation costs.

When our customers use our service to call customers of other carriers, in certain
circumstances we are required under the current intercarrier compensation scheme to pay the carrier that serves the called party, and any intermediary or transit carrier, for the use of their networks. However, as a wireless carrier we are not
entitled to receive access payments from interexchange carriers who route calls for termination on our network. A longstanding FCC rulemaking proceeding is examining whether a unified intercarrier compensation regime should be established for all
traffic exchanged between all carriers, including CMRS carriers such as us. New intercarrier compensation rules, if adopted, may result in increases in the charges we are required to pay other carriers for terminating calls or transiting calls over
their networks, increase the costs of, or make it more difficult to negotiate, new agreements with carriers, and decrease the amount of revenue we receive for terminating calls from other carriers on our network. New rules also may be subject to a
transition period or policies that are not advantageous to wireless carriers.

We resell third party international
interexchange services in connection with certain of our international interexchange services. The charges for these services may be subject to change by the terminating or interconnecting carrier, or by the regulatory body or agency having
jurisdiction in the applicable foreign country. In the event that the charges change, the terminating or interconnecting carrier may attempt to assess such charges retroactively on us or our third party international interexchange carrier, which
charges may be substantial, or we may cease providing service to such foreign destination, which may cause prospective customers to not subscribe to our service or current customers to terminate their service from us. If we are assessed additional
charges on a retroactive basis, the use of our services results in significant intercarrier costs, we are unable or unwilling to offer services to certain foreign destinations, or prospective customers do not subscribe to our service or current
customers terminate service with us, it could limit our ability to grow our customer base which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.







A portion of our third-party customer service and technical support providers and a
portion of our revenue are derived from geographic areas susceptible to natural and other disasters.

Our success depends on our
ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel.

Recent political changes could have an adverse effect on our relationship with our workforce.

None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement or represented by an employee union. With the changes in the party
affiliation of the President of the United States and the changes in composition of Federal and state legislatures, legislation may be enacted which could impose additional requirements on us or make it easier for union organizing activities. If our
employees become represented by an employee union, it may make it more difficult for us to manage our business and to attract and retain new employees and may increase our cost of doing business. Having our employees become represented by an
employee union or having additional requirements related to our employees imposed on us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.







We are subject to numerous surcharges and fees from federal, state and local
governments, and the applicability and the amount of these fees is subject to great uncertainty.

Concerns about
whether wireless telephones pose health and safety risks may lead to the adoption of new regulations or lawsuits that could decrease demand for our services.







System failures, security breaches and the unauthorized use of or interference with
our network could cause delays or interruptions of service, increase our cost of operations, and result in harm to our business reputation, which could cause us to lose customers.

To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable, trustworthy service. We rely upon our networks and the networks of other
providers to provide and support all of our services. Some of the risks to our networks and infrastructure, which may prevent us from providing reliable service, include:



•physical damage to outside plant facilities;



•power surges or outages;



•equipment failure;



•vendor or supplier failures or delays;



•software defects;



•viruses, malware, worms, Trojan horses, unsolicited mass advertising, denial of service and other malicious or abusive attacks by hackers;



•fraud, including customer credit card fraud, subscription or dealer fraud;



•unauthorized use of our or our provider’s networks;



•human error;



•disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by criminal or terrorist activities, theft, natural disasters, such as earthquakes,
hurricanes, floods, or fire; and



•failures in operational support systems.

Our network security, processes and strategies are designed to protect and prevent unauthorized access to our network and data on our network. The techniques and tools used to sabotage or gain
unauthorized access to networks changes frequently and we may not be able to anticipate or implement adequate prevention measures timely. Network disruptions, whether from natural causes or manmade, may cause interruptions in service, degradation of
service, excessive call volumes to call centers, damage to our or our customer’s equipment or reduced capacity for customers, all of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. Some portions of our network are not fully redundant
and our disaster relief plans may not be adequate or timely. The resulting interruption or failure to provide our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Further, our administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud, or the costs to
replace or repair the network or facilities (or portions thereof), may be substantial, thus causing our costs to provide service to increase. Fraudulent use of our network may also impact interconnection and long distance costs, capacity costs,
roaming costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for such fraud. We believe we have instituted safeguards to protect, detect and control such fraud; however, if such safeguards are not successful, such fraud
or increased costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and impair our service resulting in higher churn as our competitors systems may not experience similar problems.

Additionally, our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks
by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete, misappropriate or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. Due to the evolving
techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to our systems, we may not be able to implement adequate preventive measures timely or prevent such unauthorized access. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in harm to our
customers and legal actions against us and to additional harm perpetrated by third parties who are given access to the consumer data. The actual or perceived failure to our network security could damage our reputation and public perception of our
ability to provide a secure service, which could adversely affect our ability to retain customers, expose us to significant liability, sanctions, fines and litigation and have a resulting material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and operating results.







Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters

Our ability to provide service to our customers and generate revenues could be harmed by adverse regulatory action.

We may be unable to obtain necessary governmental authorizations and permits on reasonable terms and conditions.

Our ability to operate our business is dependent on, among other things, our ability to obtain governmental
authorizations and permits in the planning, construction and operation of our networks. Obtaining governmental authorizations and permits can be very time sensitive and require compliance with administrative and procedural rules. To remain
competitive, we must obtain such authorizations and permits on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and on acceptable terms and conditions. If we cannot obtain the necessary governmental authorizations and permits at all or on reasonable terms and
conditions, we may incur substantial costs associated with finding an alternate, viable resolution, relocating sites and infrastructure, writing off cost and expenses associated with sites we are unable to use, and we may experience a delay or
impairment in the provisioning of our services which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.







We are subject to significant federal and state regulation.

Our business also is subject to various other regulations, including certain regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the
Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Securities Exchange Commission, the Department of Labor, the FCC, and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and
legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, relatively smaller resources, more limited spectrum holdings,
concentration of operations in a few states in major metropolitan areas, and composition of our current and prospective customer base, governmental regulations and orders can disproportionately increase our costs and affect our competitive position
compared to other larger telecommunications providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our
business. As previously noted herein, a variety of changes in regulatory policies are under consideration and depending upon the outcomes, the changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.







qui tam

Qui tam

qui tam

qui tam

qui tam

Spectrum for which we have been granted licenses as a result of AWS Auction 66 and Auction 73 is subject to
certain legal challenges, which may ultimately result in the FCC revoking our licenses.







New Rules Regarding Net Neutrality May Have a Material Adverse Affect on our Business

General Matters

Our stock price has historically been, and may continue to be, volatile and you may lose all or some of your investment.

The trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies generally have been highly volatile. In particular, the trading
price of our common stock has been, and is likely to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in reaction to a number of events and factors that may include, among other things:



•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ operating and financial results;



•introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors or changes in service plans or pricing by us or our competitors;



•changes in, or our failure to meet, securities analysts’ expectations;



•entry of new competitors into our markets or perceptions of increased price competition, including a price war;



•concentration of offered services and assets in the U.S., in particular limited major metropolitan areas;



•changes in our credit rating or future prospects;



•disruptions of our operations or service providers necessary to our network operations;



•seasonal or other variations in our customer base;



•market perceptions relating to our services, network, handsets and deployment of our 4G LTE platform;



•challenges to our intellectual property rights or claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others;



•pending or threatened litigation or regulatory investigations;



•adoption of or changes in governmental regulations and new accounting standards;



•conditions and trends in the communications and high technology markets;



•adverse publicity regarding our Company;







•mergers, acquisitions, strategic alliances or significant agreements, or resources of, or lack of , any of the foregoing, by us or by our competitors;



•announcements by us or competitors of significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;



•sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers or affiliates or significant stockholders;



•the amount of short interest in our securities;



•volatility in stock market prices and volumes, which is particularly common among securities of telecommunications companies;



•the general state of the U.S. and world economies;



•the availability or perceived availability of additional capital in general and our access to such capital;



•availability of additional spectrum, whether by the announcement, commencement, bidding and closing of auctions for new spectrum or acquisitions of
other businesses;



•recruitment or departure of key personnel, management or board members; and



•failure to timely file periodic reports.

In addition, the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which may continue for the foreseeable future. This volatility has had a significant impact on the
trading price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in the telecommunications industry. The trading price of our stock has fallen significantly since our initial public offering. These changes frequently occur irrespective of
the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the trading price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our business, financial condition and operating results. The price volatility
and continued decrease in our stock price could subject us to takeover bids, actions by the NYSE and possible losses for stockholders.

Your ownership interest could be diluted by future issuances of shares that our Board has the authority to issue, and such future issuances or sales of such shares may adversely affect the market
price of MetroPCS’ common stock.







If we fail to manage our planned growth effectively and maintain an effective system
of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.

The value of our FCC licenses may drop in the future as a result of volatility in the marketplace and the sale of additional spectrum by the FCC.

The market value of FCC licenses has been subject to significant volatility in the past and the value of our licenses may continue to
fluctuate based on market conditions, the availability of spectrum, whether through consolidation in the industry, by FCC regulatory action or auction, the availability of buyers and sellers, and the inability to ascertain the value of any license
due to such volatility. The impact of the availability of spectrum from any future actions and auctions on license values is uncertain. There can be no assurance of the market value of our FCC licenses or that the market value of our FCC licenses
will not be volatile in the future, whether as a result of consolidation in the industry, the sale of spectrum by one or more carriers or an FCC auction. If the value of our licenses was to decline significantly, we could be forced to record
non-cash impairment charges that could impact our ability to borrow additional funds. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our net income and on the carrying value of our licenses on our balance sheet, which could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

Declines in our operating
performance could ultimately result in an impairment of our indefinite-lived assets, including FCC licenses, or our long-lived assets, including property and equipment.

We assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and certain intangible assets, when there is
evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess potential impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events
or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. The estimation of fair values or carrying values requires assumptions by management about factors that are highly uncertain and possibly volatile, including future cash
flow, stock prices, discount rates and other factors. If adverse economic conditions, poor consumer confidence, reduced consumer spending, volatile and decreasing stock prices, including our stock, continues for a period of time or we do not achieve
our planned operating results, these factors may ultimately result in a non-cash impairment charge related to our long-lived assets and/or our indefinite-lived intangible assets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on
our operating results and on the carrying value of our FCC licenses and/or our long-lived assets on our balance sheet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.







Changes in interpretations of accounting requirements, changes in industry practice,
the identification of errors or changes in management assumptions could require amendments to or restatements of financial information or disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC.

We prepare our consolidated financial statement in accordance with GAAP and file such financial statements with the SEC in accordance
with the SEC’s rules and regulations. The preparation of financial statements requires our management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates on historical experience, our perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected
future developments and other various assumptions and information that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual
results may differ from estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Changes in accounting requirements or in guidance or interpretations related to such requirements, changes in industry practice, the identification of errors or changes in
estimates or assumptions could require restatements of financial information or amendments to disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC.

Even with our current levels of indebtedness, we may incur additional indebtedness.

The terms of the agreements governing our long-term indebtedness, subject to specified limitations, allow for the incurrence of additional indebtedness by us and our subsidiaries. Although we have
substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt under our senior secured credit facility and our indentures governing our senior notes, which could further reduce the cash we have available to invest in our operations
as a result of our increased debt service obligations. In addition, the more leveraged we become, the more we, and in turn the holders of our securities, become exposed to the risks described above in the risk factor entitled “Our operations
require continued capital expenditures and a failure to access additional capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.”

In order to provide additional flexibility, we have filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC to register debt, equity
and other securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of debt securities. The securities registered under this universal shelf registration statement could be offered from time to time with little or no
advance notice, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms and conditions to be determined at the time of any offering. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will be
available to us under our existing indebtedness or otherwise. Further, should we need to raise additional capital, the foreign ownership restrictions mandated by the FCC, and applicable to us, could limit our ability to attract additional equity
financing outside the United States. If we were able to obtain funds, it may not be on terms and conditions acceptable to us, which could limit or preclude our ability to pursue new opportunities, expand our service, upgrade our networks, engage in
acquisitions, or purchase additional spectrum, thus limiting our ability to expand our business which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us.







Our outstanding debt is subject to a change in control provision and in the event of a
change in control we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations.

Under our
indentures governing our senior notes and the terms of our senior secured credit facility, upon the occurrence of a change in control as defined therein, we would be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes and repay our
outstanding debt under our senior secured credit facility. We may not have sufficient access to funds at the time of the change in control event to make the required offer to repurchase or pay down our outstanding debt. Additionally, a default under
the indentures governing our senior notes would result in a default under our senior secured credit facility. Any failure to make or complete a change in control offer would place us in default under our indentures and senior secured credit
facility.

Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes include restrictive
covenants that limit our operating flexibility.

Our senior secured credit facility and indentures governing our
senior notes impose material operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions, subject in certain cases to ordinary course of business and other exceptions, may limit our ability to engage in some transactions, including the following:



•incurring additional debt;



•paying dividends, redeeming capital stock or making other restricted payments or investments;



•selling or buying assets, properties or licenses;



•developing assets, properties or licenses which we have or in the future may procure;



•creating liens on assets;



•participating in future FCC auctions of spectrum or private sales of spectrum;



•engaging in mergers, acquisitions, business combinations, or other transactions;



•merging, consolidating or disposing of assets;



•entering into transactions with affiliates; and



•placing restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments.

Under the senior secured credit facility, we are also subject to financial maintenance covenants with respect to our senior secured
leverage and in certain circumstances total maximum consolidated leverage and certain minimum fixed charge coverage ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal on our
outstanding debt, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment or the economy. Any future debt that we incur may contain similar or more restrictive covenants.

Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our senior notes, or
certain current and any subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default under these agreements, which in turn may result in defaults or acceleration of obligations under these agreements and other agreements, giving our lenders the
right to terminate any commitments they had made to provide us with further funds and to require us to repay all amounts then outstanding.

Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results and our senior creditors would have a prior secured claim to any collateral securing the
debt owed to them.

Our ability to make payments on our debt, to repay our existing indebtedness when due, and to fund
operations and significant planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to produce cash from operations is subject to a number of risks, including:



•introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors or changes in service plans or pricing by us or our competitors;







•our ability to maintain our current cost structure; and



•our ability to continue to grow our customer base and maintain our projected levels of churn.

Our substantial debt service obligations could have important material consequences to you, including the following:



•limiting our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions,
technological initiatives and other general corporate purposes;



•making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness;



•increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressure;



•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the telecommunications industry;



•limiting our ability to increase our capital expenditures to roll out new services or to upgrade our networks to new technologies, such as 4G LTE;



•limiting our ability to purchase additional spectrum or develop new metropolitan areas in the future;



•reducing the amount of cash available for working capital needs, capital expenditures for existing and new markets and other corporate purposes by
requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness; and



•placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who are less leveraged than we are.

Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business as planned, which could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, a substantial portion of our debt, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, bears interest at variable rates. If market
interest rates increase, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. While we have and may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates in the future, any such
agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk, and any portion not subject to such agreements would have full exposure to higher interest rates.

Settlements, judgments, restraints on our current or future manner of doing business or legal costs resulting from pending or future litigation could have an adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, and operating results.

We are regularly involved in a number of legal proceedings before various
state and federal courts and the FCC. Such legal proceedings can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. Also, changes in the law or
legal interpretations can affect the outcome of existing rules. The assessment of the outcome of legal proceedings, including our potential liability, if any, is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events that are not
within our control. The outcome of litigation, including amounts ultimately received or paid upon settlement or other resolution of litigation and other contingencies may differ materially from amounts accrued in the financial statements. In
addition, litigation or similar proceedings could impose restraints on our current or future manner of doing business. Further, litigation could be costly to defend, divert management’s attention from our business, and could subject us to
substantial liability. Such potential outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, of operating results, or ability to do business.







We are currently controlled by a limited number of stockholders, and their interests
may be different from yours.

A certain portion of the voting power of our capital stock is concentrated in the hands
of a few stockholders some of which also have representatives who are members of our board of directors. As a result, if such persons act together, they may have the ability to significantly influence whether required consents can be obtained and
may have substantial control over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, changes in our capital structure, governance, stockholder approvals and the approval of any merger,
consolidation or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. These stockholders may have different interests than the other holders of our common stock and may make decisions that are adverse to your interests.

Our stockholder rights plan could prevent a change in control of our Company in instances in which some stockholders may believe a
change in control is in their best interests.

We have a stockholder rights plan, or Rights Plan. Pursuant to the
Rights Plan, we have issued to our stockholders one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of our common stock as of March 27, 2007. Each right, when exercisable, will entitle its holder to purchase from us a unit consisting
of one one-thousandth of a share of series A junior participating preferred stock at $66.67 per share. Our Rights Plan is intended to protect stockholders in the event of an unfair or coercive offer to acquire our Company and to provide our
board of directors with adequate time to evaluate unsolicited offers. The Rights Plan may prevent or make takeovers or unsolicited corporate transactions more difficult. The Rights Plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that
attempts to acquire us on terms that our board of directors does not believe are in our best interests and those of our stockholders and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including
transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares.

Conflicts of interest may arise
because some of our directors are principals of our stockholders, and we have waived our rights to certain corporate opportunities.

Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in
control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.

Delaware law, as well as our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws, contains provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even if it were beneficial to our stockholders to do so. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be
willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions:



•authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval to increase the
number of outstanding shares and deter or prevent a takeover attempt;



•prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;







•require stockholder meetings to be called only by the President or at the written request of a majority of the directors then in office and not the
stockholders;



•prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;



•provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; and



•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by
stockholders at stockholder meetings.

In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law
imposes restrictions on business combinations such as mergers between us and a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock.

Any
of the foregoing events or other events could cause revenues, customer additions, operating income, capital expenditures and other financial or statistical information to vary from our forward-looking estimates by a material amount.

