Item 1.Business.



Narrative
    Description of the Business



FIS is a leading global provider of banking and payments
    technology solutions, processing services and information-based
    services. We offer financial institution core processing, card
    issuer and transaction processing services, including the NYCE
    Network, a leading national electronic funds transfer (EFT)
    network. FIS is a member of the Standard and Poor’s
    (S&P)
    500®Index and consistently holds a leading ranking in the annual
    FinTech 100 rankings.



As of December 31, 2009, FIS has more than 300 solutions
    serving over 14,000 financial institutions and business
    customers in over 100 countries spanning most segments of the
    financial services industry. These customers include 40 of the
    top 50 global banks, including nine of the top 10, as ranked by
    Bankersalmanac.com as of November 2009, as well as mid-tier and
    community banks, credit unions, commercial lenders, automotive
    financial institutions, healthcare providers and governments.
    Additionally, we provide services to numerous retailers via our
    check processing and guarantee services. No individual customer
    represents more than 5% of our revenues.



On October 1, 2009, FIS completed the acquisition of
    Metavante. The resulting combination of solution suites is
    expected to strengthen our competitive position globally,
    generates substantial economies of scale and provides
    significant cross-sell opportunities. Metavante expands the
    scale of FIS core processing and payment capabilities, adds
    comprehensive trust and wealth management services and includes
    the NYCE Network, which joins the Company’s existing EFT
    offerings. In addition, Metavante adds significant scale to our
    treasury and cash management offerings and provides an entry
    into the emerging markets of healthcare and government payments.
    These enhanced capabilities enable FIS to provide a selection of
    solutions to financial institutions across all asset sizes, and
    to a variety of non-financial organizations, both domestically
    and internationally. FIS is now well positioned in both the
    large and mid-tier bank segments, where the majority of IT
    spending occurs.



General
    Development of the Business



Our business operations and organizational structure result from
    the February 1, 2006, business combination of FIS and
    Certegy (the “Certegy Merger”), pursuant to which FIS
    was merged into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Certegy.
    Immediately after the Certegy Merger, the stockholders of FIS
    owned approximately 67.4% of the Company’s outstanding
    common stock. Accordingly, for accounting and financial
    reporting purposes, the Certegy Merger was treated as a reverse
    acquisition of Certegy by FIS using the purchase method of
    accounting. Under this accounting treatment, although Certegy
    was the legal entity that survived the merger, FIS was viewed as
    the acquirer for accounting purposes, and our financial
    statements and other disclosures for periods prior to the
    Certegy Merger treat FIS as our predecessor company. Also, as a
    result of the Certegy Merger, the registrant’s name changed
    from “Certegy Inc.” to “Fidelity National
    Information Services, Inc.” and our New York Stock Exchange
    trading symbol from “CEY” to “FIS”. We are
    incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia, where
    Certegy was initially incorporated on March 2, 2001.





On November 9, 2006, Old FNF, then the majority stockholder
    of FIS (after other transactions in which it distributed all of
    its assets other than its ownership in FIS), merged with and
    into FIS (the “FNF Merger”). Upon completion of the
    FNF Merger, FIS became an independent publicly traded company,
    and Old FNF ceased to exist as an independent publicly traded
    company. The assets distributed by Old FNF prior to the FNF
    Merger included its ownership in FNT, which following the FNF
    Merger renamed itself Fidelity National Financial, Inc.



Our growth has been driven internally and by these additional
    acquisitions which also contributed important applications and
    services to the offerings of FIS:



•eFunds, a provider of risk management services, EFT services,
    prepaid/gift card processing, and global outsourcing solutions
    to financial services companies in the U.S. and
    internationally;•Certegy, a provider of card issuer services to financial
    institutions and check risk management services in the
    U.S. and internationally;•InterCept, Inc., a provider of outsourced and in-house core
    banking solutions, as well as item processing and check imaging
    services;•Sanchez Computer Associates, Inc., a provider of software and
    outsourcing solutions to banks and other financial institutions;•Kordoba, a provider of information technology solutions for the
    financial services industry with a focus on services and
    solutions for the German banking market;•Aurum Technology, a provider of software and outsourcing
    solutions to community banks and credit unions; and•The financial services division of ALLTEL Information Services,
    Inc., a provider of core banking services.



Financial
    Information About Operating Segments and Geographic
    Areas



On July 2, 2008, we completed the spin-off of our former
    lender processing services segment into a separate publicly
    traded company, Lender Processing Services, Inc., referred to as
    LPS. The results of operations of the lender processing services
    segment are reflected as discontinued operations in the
    Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all periods presented.
    Subsequent to the LPS spin-off, we began reporting the results
    of our operations in four new reporting segments:
    1) Financial Solutions Group (“FSG”);
    2) Payment Solutions Group (“PSG”);
    3) International Solutions Group (“ISG”); and
    4) Corporate and Other. All periods presented have been
    conformed to reflect the segment changes.



Competitive
    Strengths



We believe that our competitive strengths include the following:





•Leading Proprietary Technology —FIS has a
    significant number of high quality software applications and
    services that have been developed over many years with
    substantial input from our customers.



•Comprehensive, Integrated Business Solutions—
    FIS has the ability to use a wide range of applications and
    services to provide comprehensive business solutions for our
    customers. In addition, FIS is able to use the modular nature of
    our software applications and our ability to integrate many of
    our services with the services of others to provide customized
    solutions that respond to individualized customer needs. FIS
    also offers a wider range of flexible service arrangements than
    are typically offered by our competitors for the deployment and
    support of our software, from traditional license and
    maintenance fee approaches to managed processing arrangements,
    either at the customer’s site or at an FIS location.



•Excellent Relationship with Customers— A
    significant percentage of FIS’ business with our customers
    relates to core processing applications and services, and the
    nature of this relationship allows us to develop close
    partnerships with these customers. As the breadth of FIS’
    service offerings expands, we have found that our access to key
    customer personnel is increasing, presenting greater
    opportunities for cross-selling.



•Strong Value Proposition for Customers— We
    understand the needs of our customers and have developed
    innovative services that can reduce their operating costs.







Strategy



Our mission is to achieve profitable growth through providing
    superior solutions to our customers. Our strategy to achieve
    this has been and will continue to be built on the following
    pillars:



•Solution Integration and Innovation— Continue
    to invest in internally developed applications and platforms.
    Enhancing and extending the functionality of our proprietary
    systems and developing new and innovative applications in
    response to market needs are essential elements to achieving our
    growth objectives.•Superior Execution— Deliver value using
    industry best practices more economically than customers can
    perform the same services internally.•Enterprise Sales— Leverage opportunities for
    cross-selling and up-selling to existing customers. FIS has
    built a centralized team of experienced sales personnel that
    capitalizes on these opportunities.•Global Diversification— Continue to deploy
    resources in emerging global markets with higher revenue growth
    potential.•Strategic Acquisitions— Focus on acquisitions
    that can bring new applications to existing markets we serve or
    provide entry into new markets. This strategy has allowed us to
    build a very broad solutions suite and will contribute to
    maintaining our competitive position going forward.•Expense Management— Continue to drive
    operating efficiencies, thereby freeing resources for strategic
    innovation and global diversification efforts.



Revenues
    by Segment



The table below summarizes the revenues by our reporting
    segments (in millions):



200920082007FSG$1,260.0$1,135.8$979.6PSG1,741.91,526.31,303.2ISG782.7768.1613.7Corporate & Other(15.1)(2.5)(3.6)Total Consolidated Revenues$3,769.5$3,427.7$2,892.9





Financial
    Solutions Group



The focus of FSG is to provide the most comprehensive software
    and services for the core processing, customer channel,
    treasury, cash management and wealth management operations of
    our financial institution customers in North America. We service
    the core and related ancillary processing needs of North
    American banks, credit unions, automotive financial companies,
    commercial lenders, and independent community and savings
    institutions. FIS offers a broad selection of in-house and
    outsourced solutions to banking customers that span the range of
    asset sizes. FSG customers are typically committed under
    multi-year contracts that provide a stable, recurring revenue
    base and opportunities for cross-selling additional financial
    and payments offerings.



We employ several business models to provide our solutions to
    our customers. We typically deliver the highest value to our
    customers when we combine our software applications and deliver
    them in one of several types of outsourcing arrangements, such
    as an application service provider, facilities management
    processing or an application management arrangement. We are also
    able to deliver individual applications through a software
    licensing arrangement. Based upon the expertise gained through
    the foregoing arrangements, some clients also use us to manage
    their IT operations without providing any of our proprietary
    software.



Our solutions in this segment include:



•Core Processing and Ancillary
    Applications.Our core processing software
    applications are designed to run critical banking processes for
    our financial institution clients, including deposit and lending
    systems,





customer management, and other central management systems. Our
    diverse selection of market-focused core systems enables FIS to
    effectively compete in a wide range of markets. We also offer a
    number of services that are ancillary to the primary
    applications listed above, including branch automation, back
    office support systems and compliance support. In addition, our
    wealth management services offer a set of Internet-enabled
    services to financial services providers that address the
    specific needs of the rapidly growing wealthy, affluent and
    emerging affluent markets, as well as commercial clients. These
    solutions address asset and liability aggregation, trust and
    investment account management, client and regulatory reporting,
    and employee retirement benefit services. We also offer an
    application suite that assists automotive finance institutions
    in evaluating loan applications and credit risk, and allows
    automotive finance institutions to manage their loan and lease
    portfolios.





•Channel Solutions.Our comprehensive suite of
    retail delivery applications enables financial institutions to
    integrate and streamline customer-facing operations and
    back-office processes, thereby improving customer interaction
    across all channels (e.g., branch offices, Internet, ATM, call
    centers). The FIS focus on consumer access has driven
    significant market innovation in this area, with multi-channel
    and multi-host solutions and a strategy that provides tight
    integration of services and a seamless customer experience. Our
    electronic banking services are utilized by more than 2,100
    financial institutions to offer Internet banking services to
    their customers. Our Consumer Electronic Banking and Business
    Internet Banking both provide an extensive set of cash
    management capabilities, enabling customers to manage banking
    and payments through the Internet, mobile devices, accounting
    software and telephone. Corporate Electronic Banking solutions
    provide commercial treasury capabilities including cash
    management services and multi-bank and collection and
    disbursement services that address the specialized needs of
    corporate customers. FIS systems provide full accounting and
    reconciliation for such transactions, serving as the system of
    record and providing full regulatory compliance, risk assessment
    and fraud management tools.



•Decision and Risk Management Solutions.Our
    decision solutions offer a full spectrum of options that cover
    the account lifecycle from helping to identify qualified account
    applicants to managing mature customer accounts and fraud. Our
    applications include know-your-customer, new account
    decisioning, new account opening, account and transaction
    management, fraud management and collections. Our risk
    management services utilize our proprietary risk management
    models and data sources to assist in detecting fraud and
    assessing the risk of opening a new account or accepting a check
    at either thepoint-of-sale,a physical branch location, or through the Internet. Our systems
    utilize a combination of advanced authentication procedures,
    predictive analytics, artificial intelligence modeling and
    proprietary and shared databases to assess and detect fraud risk
    for deposit transactions for financial institutions.



•Syndicated Loan Applications.Our syndicated
    loan applications are designed to support wholesale and
    commercial banking requirements necessary for all aspects of
    syndicated commercial loan origination and management.



•Global Commercial Services.Our global
    commercial services include solutions, both onshore and
    offshore, designed to meet the technology challenges facing
    principally U.S. based clients, large or small. Our
    technology solutions range in scope from consulting engagements
    to application development projects and from operations support
    for a single application to full management of information
    technology infrastructures. We also provide outsourcing teams to
    manage costs, improve operational efficiency, transform
    processes and deliver world-class customer service. There is an
    increased trend toward outsourcing in our customer base, thus
    expansion of these services represents one of FIS’ growth
    drivers.



Payment
    Solutions Group



PSG provides a comprehensive set of software and services for
    the EFT, card processing, item processing, bill payment, and
    government and healthcare payments processing needs of our
    customers in North America. PSG is focused on servicing the
    payment and electronic funds transfer needs of North American
    headquartered banks and credit unions, commercial lenders, and
    independent community and savings institutions. With the
    Metavante acquisition, we also entered the emerging markets of
    healthcare and government payments. PSG customers





typically commit to multi-year contracts that provide recurring
    revenues based on underlying payment transaction volumes.



Our solutions in this segment include:





•Electronic Funds Transfer.Our electronic
    funds transfer and debit card processing business offers
    settlement and card management solutions for financial
    institution card issuers. We provide traditional ATM- and
    PIN-based debit network access and emerging real-time payment
    alternatives through NYCE. NYCE connects millions of cards andpoint-of-salelocations nationwide, providing consumers with secure, real-time
    access to their money. Also through NYCE, clients such as
    financial institutions, retailers and independent ATM operators
    can capitalize on the efficiency, consumer convenience and
    security of electronic real-time payments, real-timeaccount-to-accounttransfers, and strategic alliances such as surcharge-free ATM
    network arrangements. We are also a leading provider of prepaid
    card services, which is a fast growing channel in the industry.
    Services include gift cards and reloadable cards, withend-to-endsolutions for development, processing and administration of
    stored-value programs.





•

Item Processing and Output Services.

on-site

®



•Credit Card Solutions.More than 6,200
    financial institutions utilize a combination of our technologyand/orservices to issue
    VISA®,

    MasterCard®or American
    Express®branded credit and debit cards or other electronic payment cards
    for use by both consumer and business accounts. Our services
    range from card production and activation to an extensive range
    of fraud management services to value-added loyalty programs
    designed to increase card usage and fee-based revenues. The
    majority of our programs are full service, including most of the
    operations and support necessary for an issuer to operate a
    credit card program. We do not make credit decisions for our
    card issuing customers, nor do we fund their receivables. In
    addition, our merchant card processing service provides
    everything a financial institution needs to manage its merchant
    card activities includingpoint-of-saleequipment, transaction authorization, draft capture, settlement,
    charge-back processing and reporting.



•Government and Healthcare Payments
    Solutions.FIS healthcare payments solutions
    facilitate the exchange of information and funds among patients,
    payers, providers and financial institutions. With Web-enabled
    tools, a Health Savings Account (HSA) platform,
    “multi-purse” benefit debit cards that cover multiple
    spending accounts with a simple card and combined
    eligibility/payment cards, FIS enables consumers and third party
    benefits administrators to have integrated benefit account
    management of HSAs, Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA), Health
    Reimbursement Agreements (HRA) and dependent care and
    transportation accounts. We also provide comprehensive,
    customized electronic service applications for government
    agencies, including Internal Revenue Service (IRS) payment
    services. We also facilitate the collection of state income
    taxes, real estate taxes, utility bills, vehicle registration
    fees, driver’s license





renewal fees, parking tickets, traffic citations, tuition
    payments, court fees and fines, hunting and fishing license
    fees, as well as various business licenses.



•ePayment Solutions.We provide reliable and
    scalable bill publishing and bill consolidation technology for
    our customers, generating millions of monthly bills and
    servicing both billers and financial institution customers.
    Online bill payment functionality includes credit and debit
    card-based expedited payments. Ourend-to-endpresentment and payment solution provides anall-in-onesolution to meet billers’ needs for the distribution and
    collection of bills and other customer documents. FIS also
    provides automated clearing house (ACH) processing.•Check Authorization.Our check authorization
    business provides check risk management and related services to
    businesses accepting or cashing checks. Our services assess the
    likelihood (and often provide a guarantee) that a check will
    clear. Our check authorization system utilizes artificial
    intelligence modeling and otherstate-of-the-arttechnology to deliver accuracy, convenience and simplicity to
    retailers.



International
    Solutions Group



ISG provides local services to our customers in more than 100
    countries around the world. The services delivered by FIS in
    these locations provide many of the same financial and payments
    solutions we offer in North America. We provide core banking
    applications, channel solutions, card and merchant services,
    item processing and check risk management solutions to financial
    institutions, card issuers and retailers.



Our international operations leverage existing applications and
    provide services for the specific business needs of our
    customers in targeted international markets. Services are
    delivered from 27 operations centers around the world. Our
    payment solutions services include fully outsourced card issuer
    services and customer support, item processing and retailpoint-of-salecheck warranty services. Our financial solutions services
    include fully outsourced core bank processing arrangements,
    application management, software licensing and maintenance,
    facilities management and consulting services.



ISG represented approximately 21 percent of total 2009
    revenues, with potential for both growth in existing customer
    accounts and new account penetration. Management believes the
    greatest potential for growth is in the EMEA, Latin American,
    Australian and Asian markets.



Corporate
    and Other Segment



The Corporate and Other segment consists of the corporate
    overhead costs that are not allocated to operating segments.
    These include costs related to human resources, finance, legal,
    accounting, domestic sales and marketing, merger and acquisition
    activity and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and
    other costs that are not considered when management evaluates
    segment performance.



Sales and
    Marketing



We have an integrated team of experienced sales personnel with
    expertise in particular services or the needs of particular
    types of customers, e.g., financial institutions, other
    nonbanking customers, and international institutions. This
    organizational structure enables us to effectively bring
    additional solutions to the attention of our existing customers,
    leveraging opportunities to cross-sell and up-sell. We target
    the majority of our potential customers via directand/orindirect field sales, as well as inbound and outbound
    telemarketing efforts.



Our global marketing strategy is to develop and lead the
    execution of the various business units’ strategic
    marketing plans in support of their revenue and profitability
    goals. Key components include thought leadership, consistent
    message development, internal and external communications,
    client conference content management, Web content creation and
    management, trade shows, demand generation campaign involvement
    and collateral development and management. We strive to use the
    most efficient delivery system available to successfully acquire
    clients and build awareness of our solutions.





Beginning October 1, 2009, we entered into a comprehensive
    rebranding campaign to bring all of our software and services
    under one comprehensive set of trademarks, including FIS and
    NYCE, in support of our marketing strategy.



Patents,
    Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property



We rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, internal
    security practices, and applicable law to establish and protect
    our software, technology and expertise worldwide. We rely on
    trademark law to protect our rights in those brands. While we
    intend to continue taking appropriate measures to protect our
    intellectual property rights, these legal protections and
    arrangements afford only limited protection, and there is no
    assurance that our competitors will not independently develop or
    license products, services, or capabilities that are
    substantially equivalent or superior to ours. In general, we own
    the proprietary rights necessary for the conduct of our
    business, although we do license certain items from third
    parties under arms-length agreements for varying terms.



Competition



non-U.S. markets,



Research
    and Development



Our research and development activities have related primarily
    to the design and development of processing systems and related
    software applications and risk management platforms. We expect
    to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of
    resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of
    our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to
    develop new and innovative software applications and systems in
    response to the needs of our customers, and to enhance the
    capabilities surrounding our outsourcing infrastructure. In
    addition, we intend to offer services that are compatible with
    new and emerging delivery channels.



As part of our research and development process, we evaluate
    current and emerging technology for compatibility with our
    existing and future software platforms. To this end, we engage
    with various hardware and software vendors in evaluation of
    various infrastructure components. Where appropriate, we use
    third-party technology components in the development of our
    software applications and service offerings. Third-party
    software may be used for highly specialized business functions,
    which we may not be able to develop internally within time and
    budget constraints. Additionally, third-party software may be
    used for commodity type functions within a technology platform
    environment. In the case of nearly all of our third-party
    software, enterprise license agreements





exist for the third-party component and either alternative
    suppliers exist or transfer rights exist to ensure the
    continuity of supply. As a result, we are not materially
    dependent upon any third-party technology components. We work
    with our customers to determine the appropriate timing and
    approach to introducing technology or infrastructure changes to
    our applications and services. In the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 2% to 3% of
    revenues were invested in research and development efforts
    (excluding amounts capitalized).



Government
    Regulation



Our services are subject to a broad range of complex federal,
    state, and foreign regulation, including federaltruth-in-lendingandtruth-in-savingsrules, Regulation AA (Unfair or Deceptive Acts or
    Practices), privacy laws, usury laws, the Equal Credit
    Opportunity Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Fair
    Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act,
    the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Internal Revenue
    Code, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Health
    Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the Community
    Reinvestment Act. The compliance of our services with these and
    other applicable laws and regulations depends on a variety of
    factors, including the manner in which our clients use them. Our
    clients are contractually responsible for determining what is
    required of them under applicable laws and regulations so that
    we can assist them in their compliance efforts. The failure of
    our services to comply with applicable laws and regulations
    could result in restrictions on our ability to provide them, as
    well as the imposition of civil finesand/orcriminal penalties. The four principal areas of regulation
    impacting our business are:





•Privacy.Our financial institution clients are
    required to comply with privacy regulations imposed under the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. These regulations place restrictions on
    the use of non-public personal information. All financial
    institutions must disclose detailed privacy policies to their
    customers and offer them the opportunity to direct the financial
    institution not to share information with third parties. The
    regulations, however, permit financial institutions to share
    information with non-affiliated parties who perform services for
    the financial institutions. As a provider of services to
    financial institutions, we are required to comply with the
    privacy regulations and are bound by the same limitations on
    disclosure of the information received from our customers as
    apply to the financial institutions themselves.



•Consumer Reporting.Our retail check
    authorization services (Certegy Check Services) and account
    opening services (ChexSystems) maintain databases of consumer
    information and, as a consequence, are subject to the Federal
    Fair Credit Reporting Act and similar state laws. Among other
    things, the Fair Credit Reporting Act imposes requirements on us
    concerning data accuracy, and provides that consumers have the
    right to know the contents of their files, to dispute their
    accuracy, and to require verification or removal of disputed
    information. In furtherance of our objectives of data accuracy,
    fair treatment of consumers, protection of consumers’
    personal information, and compliance with these laws, we
    maintain a high level of security for our computer systems in
    which consumer data resides, and we maintain consumer relations
    call centers to facilitate efficient handling of consumer
    requests for information and handling disputes.



•Debt Collection.Our collection services are
    subject to the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and
    various state collection laws and licensing requirements. The
    Federal Trade Commission, as well as state attorneys general and
    other agencies, have enforcement responsibility over the
    collection laws, as well as the various credit reporting laws.



•Money Transfer.Elements of our cash access
    and money transmission businesses are registered as a Money
    Services Business and are subject to the USA Patriot Act and
    reporting requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act and
    U.S. Treasury Regulations. This business is also subject to
    various state, local and tribal licensing requirements. The
    Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, state attorneys general,
    and other agencies have enforcement responsibility over laws
    relating to money laundering, currency transmission, and
    licensing. In addition, most states have enacted statutes that
    require entities engaged in money transmission and the sale of
    stored value cards to register as a money transmitter with that
    jurisdiction’s banking department.



As a provider of electronic data processing and back-office
    services to financial institutions we are also subject to
    regulatory oversight and examination by the Federal Financial
    Institutions Examination Council, an interagency body of the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift
    Supervision, the Office of the Comptroller





of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
    System, the National Credit Union Administration and various
    state regulatory authorities. In addition, independent auditors
    annually review several of our operations to provide reports on
    internal controls for our customers’ auditors and
    regulators. We are also subject to review under state and
    foreign laws and rules that regulate many of the same activities
    that are described above, including electronic data processing
    and back-office services for financial institutions and use of
    consumer information.



The foregoing list of laws and regulations to which our company
    is subject is not exhaustive, and the regulatory framework
    governing our operations changes continuously. Although we do
    not believe that compliance with future laws and regulations
    related to our businesses will have a material adverse effect on
    our company, enactment of new laws and regulations may
    increasingly affect the operations of our business, directly and
    indirectly, which could result in substantial regulatory
    compliance costs, litigation expense, adverse publicity,and/orloss
    of revenue.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    31,000 employees, including approximately
    16,000 employees principally employed outside of the
    U.S. None of our U.S. workforce currently is
    unionized. Approximately 10,000 of our employees, primarily in
    Brazil and Germany, are represented by labor unions. We consider
    our relations with employees to be good.



Available
    Information



Our Internet website address is www.fisglobal.com. We make our
    Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,and Current Reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports, available, free of charge, on
    that website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or
    furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our
    Corporate Governance Policy and Code of Business Conduct and
    Ethics are also available on our website and are available in
    print, free of charge, to any shareholder who mails a request to
    the Corporate Secretary, Fidelity National Information Services,
    Inc., 601 Riverside Avenue, Jacksonville, FL 32204 USA. Other
    corporate governance-related documents can be found at our
    website as well. However, the information found on our website
    is not a part of this or any other report.



