Item 1.Business.



Narrative Description of the Business



FIS is one of the world's largest global providers dedicated to banking and payments technologies.   We offer financial institution core processing, card issuer and transaction processing services, including the NY
CE Network, a leading national electronic funds transfer (EFT) network. FIS is a member of the Standard and Poor’s (S&P) 500®Index and consistently holds a leading ranking in the annual FinTech 100 rankings.



As ofDecember 31, 2010, FIS has more than 300 solutions serving over 14,000 financial institutions and business customers in over 100 countries spanning most segments of the financial services industry. Th
ese customers include large global as well as mid-tier and community banks, credit unions, commercial lenders, automotive financial institutions, healthcare providers and governments. Additionally, we provide services to numerous retailers via our check processing and guarantee services. No individual customer represents more than 5% of our revenues.



On October 1, 2009, FIS completed the acquisition of Metavante. The resulting combination of solution suites strengthened our competitive position globally, generating substantial economies of scale and providing significant cross-sell opportunities. Metavante expanded the scale of FIS' core processing and payment capabilities, and added comprehensive trust and wealth management processin
g services as well as the NYCE Network, which joined the Company’s existing EFT offerings. In addition, Metavante added significant scale to our treasury and cash management offerings and provided an entry into the healthcare and government payments markets. These enhanced capabilities enable FIS to provide a selection of solutions to financial institutions across all asset sizes, and to a variety of non-financial organizations, both domestically and internationally. FIS is now well positioned in both the large and mid-tier bank segments, where the majority of IT spending occurs.



On December 2, 2010, FIS acquired Capco, a global business and technology consultancy dedic
ated solely to the financial services industry.   Capco will broaden our capabilities to provide integrated consulting, technology and complex, large-scale transformation services.



General Development of the Business



Our business operations and organizational structure result from the February 1, 2006, business combination of FIS and Certegy (the “Certegy Merger”). FIS was viewed as the acquirer for accounting purposes, and our financial stateme
nts and other disclosures for periods prior to the Certegy Merger treat FIS as our predecessor company. Also, as a result of the Certegy Merger, the registrant’s name changed from “Certegy Inc.” to “Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.” and our New York Stock Exchange trading symbol from “CEY” to “FIS”. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia.



Our growth has been driven organically as well as through an active acquisition program, which has contributed critical applications that are complementary to or enhance existing offerings, including core banking solutions, outsourcing solutions for community banks, credit unions, and other financial institutions, item p
rocessing services, card issuer services, risk management solutions, EFT services, prepaid/gift card processing as well as solutions for global organizations and for those domiciled outside of North America.  These strategic transactions have enabled us to quickly broaden our available solution offerings, scale our operations, expand our customer base and strengthen our competitive position.

















Financial Information About Operating Segments and Geographic Areas



On July 2, 2008, we completed the spin-off of our former lender processing services 
segment into a separate publicly traded company, Lender Processing Services, Inc., referred to as LPS. The results of operations of the lender processing services segment are reflected as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all periods preceding the spin-off. Subsequent to the LPS spin-off, we began reporting the results of our operations in four reporting segments: 1) Financial Solutions Group (“FSG”); 2) Payment Solutions Group (“PSG”); 3) International Solutions Group (“ISG”); and 4) Corporate and Other. All periods presented have been conformed to reflect the segment changes.



Competitive Strengths



We believe that our competitive strengths include the following:



•Leading Proprietary Technology —FIS has 
a significant number of high quality software applications and services that have been developed over many years with substantial input from our customers.

•Comprehensive, Integrated Business Solutions— FIS has the ability to use a wide range of applications and services to provide comprehensive business solutions for our customers. In addition, FIS is able to use the modular nature of our software applications and our ability to integrate many of our services with the service
s of others to provide customized solutions that respond to individualized customer needs. FIS also offers a wide range of flexible service arrangements for the deployment and support of our software, from traditional license and maintenance fee approaches to managed processing arrangements, either at the customer’s site or at an FIS location.

•Excellent Relationship with Customers— A significant percentage of FIS’ business with our customers relates to core proces
sing applications and services, and the nature of this relationship allows us to develop close partnerships with these customers. As the breadth of FIS’ service offerings expands, we have found that our access to key customer personnel is increasing, presenting greater opportunities for cross-selling.

•Strong Value Proposition for Customers— We understand the needs of our customers and have developed innovative services that can reduce their operating costs.



Strategy



Our mission is to achieve profitable growth through providing superior solutions to our customers. Our strategy to achieve this has been and will continue to be built on the following pillars:



•Solution Integration and Innovation— Continue to invest in internally developed applications and platforms. Enhancing and extending the functionality of our proprietary systems and developing new and innovative applications in response to market needs are essential elements to achieving our growth objectives.

•Superior Execution— Deliver value using industry best practices more economically than customers can perform the same services internally.

•Enterprise Sales— Leverage opportunities for cross-selling and up-selling to existing customers. FIS has built a centr
alized team of experienced sales personnel that capitalizes on these opportunities.

•Global Diversification— Continue to deploy resources in emerging global markets with higher revenue growth potential.

•Strategic Acquisitions— Focus on acquisitions that can bring new applications to existing markets we serve or provide entry into new markets. This strategy has allowed us to build a very broad solutions suite and will contribute to maintaining our competitive position going forward.

•Disciplined Capital Investment and Expense Management— Continue to drive operating efficiencies, thereby freeing resources for strategic innovation and global diversification efforts.

Revenues by Segment



The table below summarizes the revenues by our reporting segments (in millions):











201020092008FSG$1,890.8$1,260.0$1,135.8PSG2,478.11,741.91,526.3ISG917.0724.3699.9Corporate & Other(16.4)(15.1)(2.5)Total Consolidated Revenues$5,269.5$3,711.1$3,359.5



Financial Solutions Group



The focus of FSG is to provide the most comprehensive software and services for the core processing, customer channel, treasury, cash management, wealth management and capital market operations of our financial institution customers in North America. We service the core and related ancillary processing needs of North American banks, credit unions, automotive financial companies, commercial lenders, and independent community and savings i
nstitutions. FIS offers a broad selection of in-house and outsourced solutions to banking customers that span the range of asset sizes. FSG customers are typically committed under multi-year contracts that provide a stable, recurring revenue base and opportunities for cross-selling additional financial and payments offerings.



We employ several business models to provide our solutions to our customers. We typically deliver the highest value to our customers when we combine our software applications and deliver them in one of several types of outsourcing arrangements, such as an application service provider, facilities management processing or an application management arrangement. We are also able to deliver individual applications through 
a software licensing arrangement. Based upon the expertise gained through the foregoing arrangements, some clients also use us to manage their IT operations without providing any of our proprietary software.



Our solutions in this segment include:



•Core Processing and Ancillary Applications.Our core processing software applications are designed to run critical banking processes for our financial institution clients, including deposit and lending systems, customer management, and other central management systems. Our diverse selection of market-focused core systems enables FIS to effectively compete in a wide range of markets. We also offer a number of services that are ancillary to the primary applications listed above, including branch automation, back office support systems and compliance support. In addition, our wealth management services offer a set of Internet-enabled services to financial services providers that address the specific needs of the rapidly growing wealthy, affluent and emerging affluent markets, as well as commercial clients. These solutions address asset and liability aggregati
on, trust and investment account management, client and regulatory reporting, and employee retirement benefit services. We also offer an application suite that assists automotive finance institutions in evaluating loan applications and credit risk, and allows automotive finance institutions to manage their loan and lease portfolios.

•Channel Solutions.Our comprehensive suite of retail delivery applications enables financial institutions to integrate and streamline customer-fac
ing operations and back-office processes, thereby improving customer interaction across all channels (e.g., branch offices, Internet, ATM, call centers). The FIS focus on consumer access has driven significant market innovation in this area, with multi-channel and multi-host solutions and a strategy that provides tight integration of services and a seamless customer experience.  Our Consumer Electronic Banking and Business Internet Banking both provide an extensive set of cash management capabilities, enabling customers to manage banking and payments through the Internet, mobile devices, accounting software and telephone. Corporate Electronic Banking solutions provide commercial treasury capabilities including cash management services and multi-bank and collection and disbursement services that address the specialized needs of corporate customers. FIS systems provide full accounting and reconciliation for such transactions, serving as the system of record and providing full regulatory compliance, risk assess
ment and fraud management tools.

•Decision and Risk Management Solutions.Our decision solutions offer a full spectrum of options that cover the account lifecycle from helping to identify qualified account applicants to managing mature customer accounts and fraud. Our applications include know-your-customer, new account decisioning, new account opening, account and transaction management, fraud management and collections. Our risk management services utilize our proprietary ris
k management models and data sources to assist in detecting fraud and assessing the risk of opening a new account or accepting a check at either the point-of-sale, a physical branch location, or through the Internet. Our systems utilize a combination of advanced authentication procedures, predictive analytics, artificial intelligence modeling and proprietary and shared databases to assess and detect fraud risk for deposit transactions for financial institutions.









•Syndicated Loan Applications.Our syndicated loan applications are designed to support wholesale and commercial banking requirements necessary for all aspects of syndicated commercial loan origination and management.

•<
td>Global Commercial Services.Our global commercial services include solutions, both onshore and offshore, designed to meet the technology challenges facing principally U.S. based clients, large or small. Our technology solutions range in scope from consulting engagements to application development projects and from operations support for a single application to full management of information technology infrastructures. We also provide outsourcing teams to manage costs, improve operational efficiency, transform processes and deliver world-class customer service. There is an increased trend toward outsourcing in our customer base, thus expansion of these services represents one of FIS’ growth drivers.





•Strategic Consulting Services.With the December 2010 acquisition of Capco,  we have broadened our capabilities to provide integrated consulting, technology and complex, large-scale transformation services.  Capco specializes in banking; capital markets; wealth and investment management; finance, risk and compliance; and technology.





Payment Solutions Group



PSG provides a comprehensive set of software and services for the EFT, card processing, item processing, bill payment, and government and healthcare payments processing needs of our customers in North America. PSG is focused on servicing the payment and electronic funds transfer needs of North American headquartered banks and credit unions, commercial lenders, and independent community and savings institutions. With the Metavante acquisition, we also entered the healthcare and government payments m
arkets. PSG customers typically commit to multi-year contracts that provide recurring revenues based on underlying payment transaction volumes.



Our solutions in this segment include:



•Electronic Funds Transfer.Our electronic funds transfer and debit card processing businesses offer settlement and card management solutions for financial institution card issuers. We provide traditional ATM- and PIN-based debit network access and emerging real-time payment alternatives through NYCE. NYCE connects millions of cards and point-of-sale locations nationwide, providing consumers with secure, real-time access to their money. Also through NYCE, clients such as financial institutions, retailers and independent ATM operators can capitalize on the efficiency, consumer convenience and security of electronic real-time payments, real-time account-to-account transfers, and strategic alliances such as surcharge-free ATM network arrangements. We are also a leading provider of prepaid card services, which is a fast growing channel in the industry. Services include gift cards and reloadable cards, with end-to-end soluti
ons for development, processing and administration of stored-value programs.



•

Item Processing and Output Services.

Our item processing services furnish financial institutions with the equipment needed to capture data from checks, transaction tickets and other items; image and sort items; process exceptions through keying; and perform balancing, archiving and the production of statements. Our item processing services are utilized by more than 1,500 financial institutions an
d are performed at one of our 23 item processing centers located throughout the U.S. or on-site at customer locations. Our extensive solutions include distributed (i.e., non-centralized) data capture, check and remittance processing, fraud detection, and document and report management. Customers encompass banks and corporations of all sizes, from de novo banks to the largest financial institutions and corporations. As part of our image solutions services, our Endpoint Exchange Network enables U.S. financial institutions to clear their check-based transactions by allowing for the exchange of check images between member institutions. We offer a number of output services that are ancillary to the primary solutions we provide, including print and mail capabilities and card personalization fulfillment services. Helping clients manage their documents, our CSF

®

Designer document composition software is used by many clients in various industries to furnish printed or electronically produced invoices and statements for customized customer communication. Our print and mail services offer complete computer output solutions for the creation, management and delivery of print and fulfillment needs. We provide our card personalization fulfillment services for branded credit cards and branded and non-branded debit and prepaid cards.

•Credit Card Solutions.More than 6,200 financial institutions utilize a combination of our technology and/or services to issue VISA®, MasterCard®or American Express®branded credit and debit cards or other electronic payment cards for use by both consumer and business accounts. Our services range from card production and activation to an extensive range of fraud management services to value-added loyalty programs designed to increase ca
rd usage and fee-based revenues. The majority of our programs are full service, including most of the operations and support necessary for an issuer to operate a credit card program. We do not make credit decisions for our card issuing









customers, nor do we fund their receivables. In addition, our merchant card processing service provides everything a financial institution needs to manage its merchant car
d activities including point-of-sale equipment, transaction authorization, draft capture, settlement, charge-back processing and reporting.

•Government and Healthcare Payments Solutions.FIS healthcare payments solutions facilitate the exchange of information and funds among patients, payers, providers and financial institutions. With Web-enabled tools, a Health Savings Account (HSA) platform, “multi-purse” benefit debit cards that cover multiple spending accounts with a single card 
and combined eligibility/payment cards, FIS enables consumers and third party benefits administrators to have integrated benefit account management of HSAs, Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA), Health Reimbursement Agreements (HRA) and dependent care and transportation accounts. We also provide comprehensive, customized electronic service applications for government agencies, including Internal Revenue Service (IRS) payment services. We also facilitate the collection of state income taxes, real estate taxes, utility bills, vehicle registration fees, driver’s license renewal fees, parking tickets, traffic citations, tuition payments, court fees and fines, hunting and fishing license fees, as well as various business licenses.

•ePayment Solutions.We provide reliable and scalable bill publishing and bill consolidation technology for our customers, generating millions of monthly bills and servicing both billers and financial institution customers. Online bill payment functionality includes credit and debit card-based expedited payments. Our end-to-end presentment and payment solution provides an all-in-one solution to meet billers’ needs for the distribution and collection of bills and other customer documents. FIS also provides automated clearing house (ACH) processing.

•Check Authorization.Our check authorization business provides check risk management and related services to businesses accepting or cashing checks. Our services assess the likelihood (and often provide a guarantee) that a check will clear. Our check authorization system utilizes artificial intelligence modeling and other state-of-the-art technology to deliver accuracy, convenience and simplicity to retailers.



International Solutions Group



ISG provides local services to our customers in more than 100 countries around the world. The services delivered by FIS in these locations provide many of the same financial and payments solutions we offer in North America. We provide core banking applications, channel solutions, card and merchant services, item processing and check risk management solutions to financial institutions, card issuers and retailers.



Our international operations
 leverage existing applications and provide services for the specific business needs of our customers in targeted international markets. Services are delivered from 27 operations centers around the world. Our payment solutions services include fully outsourced card-issuer services and customer support, item processing and retail point-of-sale check warranty services. Our financial solutions services include fully outsourced core bank processing arrangements, application management, software licensing and maintenance, facilities management and consulting services, including Capco's     international operations.



ISG represented approximately17%of total2010revenues, with potential for both growth in existing customer accounts and new account penetration. Management believes the greatest potential for growth is in the EMEA, Latin American, Australian and Asian markets.



Corporate and Other Segment



The Corporate and Other segment consists of the corporate overhead costs that are not allocated to operating segments. These include costs related to human resources, finance, legal, accounting, domestic sales and marketing, merger and acquisition activity and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and other costs that are not considered when management evaluates operating segment performance.



Sales and Marketing



We have an integrated team of experienced sales personnel with expertise in particular services and the needs of particular types of customers, e.g., financial institutions, other nonbanking customers, and international institutions. This organizational structure enables us to effectively bring relevant skills and knowledge to potential customers and to identify additional solutions for our existing customers, leveraging opportunities to cross-sell and up-sell. We target the majority of our potential customers via direct and/or indirect field sales, as well as inbound and outbound lead generation and telesales efforts.



Our global marketing strategy is to develop and lead the execution of the various business
 units’ strategic plans in support









of their revenue and profitability goals. Key components include thought leadership, consistent message development, internal and external communications, client conference content management, Web content creation and management, trade shows, demand generation campaign involvement and collateral development and management.



Beginning October 1, 2009, we entered into a comprehensive rebranding campaign to bring all of our software and services under one comprehensive set of trademarks, including FIS and NYCE, in support of our marketing strategy.



Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property



The Company owns intell
ectual property including trademarks, trade names and patents that are important to its future success.  We rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, internal security practices, patents and applicable law to establish and protect our software, technology and expertise worldwide. We rely on trademark law to protect our rights in those brands. While we intend to continue taking appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property rights, these legal protections and arrangements afford only limited protection, and there is no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop or license products, services, or capabilities that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. In general, we own the proprietary rights necessary for the conduct of our business, although we do license certain items from third parties under arms-length agreements for varying terms.



Competition





Research and De
velopment



Our research and development activities have related primarily to the design and development of processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems in response to the needs of our customers, and to enhance the capabilities surrounding our outsourcing infrastructure. In addition, we intend to offer services that are compatible with new and emerging delivery channels.



As part of our research and development process, we evaluate current and emerging technology for compatibility with our existing and future software platforms. To this end, we engage with various hardware and software vendors in evaluation of various infrastructure components. Where appropriate, we use third-party technology components in the development of our software applications and service offerings. Third-party software may be used for highly specialized business functions, which we may not be able to develop internally within time and budget constraints. Additionally, third-party software may be used for commodity type functions within a technology platform environment. In the case of nearly all of our third-party software, enterprise license agreements exist for the third-party component and either alternativ
e suppliers exist or transfer rights exist to ensure the continuity of supply. As a result, we are not materially dependent upon any third-party technology components. We work with our customers to determine the appropriate timing and approach to introducing technology or infrastructure changes









to our applications and services. In the years endedDecember 31, 2010,2009and2008, approximately 2% to 3% of revenues were invested in research and development efforts (excluding amounts capitalized).



Government Regulation



Our services are subject to a broad range of complex federal, state, and foreign regulation, including federal truth-in-lending and truth-in-savings rules, Regulation AA (Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices), privacy laws, usury laws, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Internal Revenue Code, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Community Reinvestment Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). The compliance of our services with these and other applicable laws and regulations depends on a variety of factors, including the manner in which our clients use them. Our clients are contractually responsible for determining what is required of them under applicable laws and r
egulations so that we can assist them in their compliance efforts. The failure of our services to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to provide them, as well as the imposition of civil fines and/or criminal penalties. The four principal areas of regulation impacting our business are:



•Privacy.Our financial insti
tution clients are required to comply with privacy regulations imposed under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. These regulations place restrictions on the use of non-public personal information. All financial institutions must disclose detailed privacy policies to their customers and offer them the opportunity to direct the financial institution not to share information with third parties. The regulations, however, permit financial institutions to share information with non-affiliated parties who perform services for the financial institutions. As a provider of services to financial institutions, we are required to comply with the privacy regulations and are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information received from our customers as apply to the financial institutions themselves.

•Consumer Reporting.Our retail check authorization services (Certegy Check Services) and account opening services (ChexSystems) maintain databases of consumer information and, as a consequence, are subject to the Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act and similar state laws. Among other things, the Fair Credit Reporting Act imposes requirements on us concerning data accuracy, and provides that consumers have the right to know the contents of their files, to dispute their accuracy, and to require verification or removal of disputed information. In furtherance of our objectives of data accuracy, fair treatment of consumers, protection of consumers’ personal information, and compliance with the
se laws, we maintain a high level of security for our computer systems in which consumer data resides, and we maintain consumer relations call centers to facilitate efficient handling of consumer requests for information and handling disputes.

The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted and signed into law on July 21, 2010.   Among other provisions, this legislation created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "Bureau") whose sole focus is to develop, implement and, with respect to financial institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, enforce consumer protection rules promulgated by the Bureau; for financial institutions with less than $10 billion in assets, enforcement of the rules will be carried out by such institution's primary federal regulator.  Since the regulations implementing the act have not yet been finalized, we are uncertain as t
o what degree the legislation may affect our business in the future.

The Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 requires, among other provisions, information reporting obligations on payment settlement entities for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2010.  This law requires every merchant acquiring entity and third party settlement organization to file information returns for the gross amount of reportable payment transactions for the calendar year and the reportable payment transactions for each month of the calendar year.  The reportable payment transactions are any transactions in which a payment card is accepted as payment and any third party payment network.  This law will result in significant additional Form 1099 reporting requirements in January 2011for FIS.



•Debt Collection.Our collection services are subject to the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and various state collection laws and licensing requirements. The Federal Trade Commission, as well as state attorneys general and other agencies, have enforcement responsibility over the collection laws,
 as well as the various credit reporting laws.

•Money Transfer.Elements of our cash access and money transmission businesses are registered as a Money Services Business and are subject to the USA Patriot Act and reporting requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act and U.S. Treasury Regulations. These businesses are also subject to various state, local and tribal licensing requirements. The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, state attorneys general, and other agencies have enforcement responsib
ility over laws relating to money laundering, currency transmission, and licensing. In addition, most states have enacted statutes that









require entities engaged in money transmission and the sale of stored value cards to register as a money transmitter with that jurisdiction’s banking department.





As a provider of electronic data processing and back-office services to financial institutions we are also subject to regulatory oversight and examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, an interagency body of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the National Credit Union Administration and various state regu
latory authorities. In addition, independent auditors annually review several of our operations to provide reports on internal controls for our customers’ auditors and regulators. We are also subject to review under state and foreign laws and rules that regulate many of the same activities that are described above, including electronic data processing and back-office services for financial institutions and use of consumer information.



The foregoing list of laws and regulations to which our Company is subject is not exhaustive, and the regulatory framework governing our operations changes continuously. Although we do not believe that compliance with future laws and regulations related to our businesses will have a material adverse eff
ect on our company, enactment of new laws and regulations may increasingly affect the operations of our business, directly and indirectly, which could result in substantial regulatory compliance costs, litigation expense, adverse publicity, and/or loss of revenue.



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2010, we had approximately 
33,000 employees, including approximately 19,000 employees principally employed outside of the U.S. None of our U.S. workforce currently is unionized. Approximately 11,500 of our employees, primarily in Brazil and Germany, are represented by labor unions. We consider our relations with employees to be good.



Available Information



Our Internet website address is www.fisglobal.com. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 1
0-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, available, free of charge, on that website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Corporate Governance Policy and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available on our website and are available in print, free of charge, to any shareholder who mails a request to the Corporate Secretary, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., 601 Riverside Avenue, Jacksonville, FL 32204 USA. Other corporate governance-related documents can be found at our website as well. However, the information found on our website is not a part of this or any other report.





