Item 1.Business.

OVERVIEW

Franklin Resources, Inc. (“Franklin”) is a holding company that, together with its various subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”), operates as Franklin Templeton Investments®. We are a global investment management organization committed to the aim of delivering strong investment performance for our clients by drawing on the experience and perspective gained throughout our 65 years in the investment management business. We believe in the value of active investment management, and plan to continue to build on our strengths while pursuing new growth opportunities. Franklin is regulated as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”), and has elected to be a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLB Act”). The common stock of Franklin is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the ticker symbol “BEN,” and is included in the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.

We offer investment choices under our Franklin®, Templeton®, Mutual Series®, Bissett®, Fiduciary Trust™,  Darby®and Balanced Equity Management™ brand names. When used in this report, unless the context otherwise makes clear, our “funds” means all of the Franklin, Templeton, Mutual Series and Bissett mutual funds. In this report, words such as “we,” “us,” “our” and similar terms refer to the Company.

We provide investment management and related services to investors in jurisdictions worldwide through products that include U.S.- and non-U.S.-registered open-end and closed-end funds (“U.S. Funds” and “Non-U.S. Funds”), unregistered funds, and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts (collectively, our “sponsored investment products”). As of September 30,2012, we had$749.9 billionin assets under management (“AUM”) with approximately 23.0 million billable shareholder accounts worldwide. In addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, shareholder services, transfer agency, trustee, custodial and other fiduciary services, as well as select private banking services. Our sponsored investment products include a broad range of equity, hybrid, fixed-income and cash management funds and accounts, including multi-asset allocation strategies and alternative investment products. We also manage certain sub-advised investment products which may be sold to the public under one of our brand names or those of other companies or on a co-branded basis.

The investment funds that we manage have various investment objectives designed to meet the needs and goals of different investors. Most of the investment funds we manage are open-end mutual funds that continuously offer their shares to investors. We also offer closed-end funds that issue a set number of shares to investors in a public offering and the shares are then traded on a public stock exchange. Since the funds themselves do not have direct employees,









to support their operations, the funds contract with separate entities, including our subsidiaries, to provide the investment management and related services they require. An investment advisory entity manages a fund's portfolio of securities in accordance with the fund's stated objectives. Investors may purchase shares of an open-end fund through a broker/dealer, bank or other intermediary which may provide investment advice to the investor, while investors may purchase shares of a closed-end fund on the stock exchange where the fund is traded. Broker/dealers and other intermediaries may earn fees and commissions and receive other compensation with respect to the fund shares sold to investors.

The business and regulatory environments in which we operate remain complex, uncertain and subject to change. In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Reform Act”) imposes additional restrictions and limitations on our business, and we expect that the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”) will cause us to incur significant administrative and compliance costs. We will continue to review and evaluate the Reform Act and FATCA and the extent of their impact on our business as the various rules and regulations required for implementation are adopted. We are also subject to numerous regulations by U.S. and non-U.S. regulators that add further complexity to our ongoing global compliance operations.

We continue to focus on the long-term investment performance of our sponsored investment products and on providing high quality customer service to our clients. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the Risk Factors discussed below in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, and other factors as discussed in this section.



COMPANY HISTORY AND ACQUISITIONS

The Company and its predecessors have been engaged in the investment management and related services business since 1947. Franklin was incorporated in Delaware in November 1969 and originated our mutual fund business with the Franklin family of funds. The Franklin Funds are known for U.S. taxable and tax-free fixed-income funds, hybrid funds and growth-oriented equity funds. We have expanded our business, in part, by acquiring companies engaged in the investment management and/or related services business.

In October 1992, we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the investment management and related services business of Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. This acquisition added the Templeton family of funds to our organization. The Templeton funds are known for their global investment strategies and value style of investing.

In November 1996, we acquired certain assets and liabilities of Heine Securities Corporation, including Mutual Series Fund Inc., now known as Franklin Mutual Series Fund Inc. (“Mutual Series”), which provided investment management services to various accounts and investment companies. Mutual Series is known for its value-oriented equity funds.

In July 2000, we expanded our business in Korea when we purchased all of the remaining outstanding shares of a Korean investment management company, Ssangyong Templeton Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd., in which we previously held a partial interest, making us one of the largest independent foreign money managers in Korea. The company has been renamed Franklin Templeton Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd.

In October 2000, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Bissett & Associates Investment Management Ltd. (“Bissett”). Bissett now operates as part of our Canadian subsidiary, Franklin Templeton Investments Corp. With the acquisition of Bissett, we added Bissett’s family of Canadian taxable fixed-income and growth-oriented equity mutual funds to our then existing Canadian based funds (some of which we previously acquired as part of the Templeton family of funds).

In April 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Fiduciary Trust Company International (“Fiduciary Trust”), a bank organized under the New York State Banking Law. Fiduciary Trust provides investment management and related services to high net-worth individuals and families and institutional clients.

In July 2002, our subsidiary, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Private Limited (“FTAMIPL”), acquired all of the outstanding shares of Pioneer ITI AMC Limited (“Pioneer”). In April 2007, we completed the purchase of the remaining 25% interest in each of FTAMIPL and Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Private Limited, each located in India, making us the largest wholly foreign owned investment manager in India.









In October 2003, we expanded our private equity investment management services in emerging markets when we acquired all of the remaining outstanding shares of Darby Overseas Investments, Ltd. and all of the remaining outstanding limited partnership interests of Darby Overseas Partners, L.P. (collectively, “Darby”), in which we previously held a partial interest. Darby, based in Washington, D.C., sponsors and manages funds for institutional investors and high net-worth individuals that invest primarily in emerging markets through private equity and mezzanine finance transactions, including regional and specialized sector funds.

In July 2006, we completed the purchase of all of the remaining interests in a Brazilian investment management company, Bradesco Templeton Asset Management Ltda., in which we previously held a partial interest. The company has been renamed Franklin Templeton Investimentos (Brasil) Ltda.

In January 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of a specialty U.K. equity manager, Rensburg Fund Management Limited (“Rensburg”). Rensburg has been renamed Franklin Templeton Fund Management Limited.

In July 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of a specialty Australian equity manager, Balanced Equity Management Pty. Limited.



INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SERVICES

We derive our revenues from providing investment management and related services to our sponsored investment products and the sub-advised products that we manage. Our investment management fees, which represent a majority of our revenues, depend to a large extent on the amount of AUM and the types of services provided. Sales and distribution fees, also a large source of our revenues, consist of sales charges and commissions derived from sales and distribution of our sponsored investment products.

Our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, including those registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Advisers Act”), subsidiaries registered as equivalent investment advisers in jurisdictions including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, The Bahamas, the United Arab Emirates, the U.K. and certain other subsidiaries.

Categories of AUM

Our fees for providing investment management services are generally based upon the market value of AUM in the accounts that we advise, the investment category of the account and the types of services that we provide for an account. As of September 30,2012, AUM by investment category held by investors on a worldwide basis was as follows:

Type of AssetValue in BillionsPercentage of Total AUMEquityGrowth potential, income potential, value or various combinations thereof$297.139%HybridAsset allocation, balanced, flexible and income-mixed funds110.115%Fixed-IncomeBoth long-term and short-term336.345%Cash ManagementShort-term liquid assets6.41%Total$749.9100%









Broadly speaking, the change in the net assets of our sponsored investment products depends primarily upon two factors: (1) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities held in the portfolio of investments; and (2) the level of sales (inflows) as compared to the level of redemptions (outflows). We are subject to the risk of asset volatility resulting from changes in the global financial and equity markets. In addition, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and U.S. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on our AUM. Despite the risk of volatility, we believe that we are more competitive as a result of the greater diversity of our sponsored investment products available to our clients.

Types of Investment Management and Related Services

1.    Investment Management Services

We provide our investment management services pursuant to agreements in effect with each of our sponsored investment products and the sub-advised products that we manage. Our investment management services include services to managed accounts for which we have full investment discretion, and to advisory accounts for which we have no investment discretion. Advisory accounts for which we do not have investment discretion may or may not include the authority to trade for the account. Our services include fundamental investment research and valuation analyses, including original economic, political, industry and company research, and analyses of suppliers, customers and competitors. Our company research utilizes such sources as company public records and other publicly available information, management interviews, company prepared information, and company visits and inspections. Research services provided by brokerage firms are also used to support our findings. Our management fee on an account varies, among other things, with the types of services that we provide for the account.

Our subsidiaries that provide discretionary investment management services for our sponsored investment products and sub-advised products either perform or obtain investment research and determine which securities the sponsored investment products or sub-advised products will purchase, hold or sell under the supervision and oversight of the funds’ boards of directors or trustees, if applicable. In addition, these subsidiaries may take all appropriate steps to implement such decisions, including arranging for the selection of brokers and dealers and the execution and settlement of trades in accordance with detailed criteria set forth in the management agreement for each account, internal policies, and applicable law and practice. Our subsidiaries conducting non-discretionary investment management services perform investment research for our clients and make recommendations as to which securities the clients purchase, hold or sell. In such cases, the subsidiaries may or may not perform trading activities for the products.

Through our subsidiaries, we compensate the personnel who serve as officers of our funds, in addition to the personnel necessary to conduct such funds’ day-to-day business operations. The funds themselves do not have direct employees. Our subsidiaries either provide or arrange for the provision of: office space, telephone, office equipment and supplies; trading desk facilities; authorization of expenditures and approval of bills for payment; preparation of registration statements, proxy statements and annual and semi-annual reports to fund shareholders, notices of dividends, capital gains distributions and tax credits, and other regulatory reports; the daily pricing of fund investment portfolios, including collecting quotations from pricing services; accounting services, including preparing and supervising publication of daily net asset value quotations, periodic earnings reports and other financial data; services to ensure compliance with securities regulations, including recordkeeping requirements; preparation and filing of tax reports; the maintenance of accounting systems and controls; and other administrative services. The funds generally pay their own expenses, such as external legal, custody and independent audit fees, regulatory registration fees, and other related expenses. The funds also share in board and shareholder meeting and reporting costs.

Most of our investment management agreements between our subsidiaries and our U.S. Funds must be renewed each year (after an initial two-year term), and must be specifically approved at least annually by a vote of each fund’s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by the directors/trustees that are not interested persons of such fund under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”), or by a vote of the holders of a majority of such fund’s outstanding voting securities. Our U.S. agreements automatically terminate in the event of their “assignment,” as defined in the Investment Company Act. In addition, either party may terminate such an agreement without penalty after prior written notice. If agreements representing a significant portion of our AUM were terminated, it would have a material adverse impact on us.









Under the majority of our investment management agreements, the funds pay us a monthly fee in arrears based upon the fund’s average daily net assets. Annual fee rates under our various global agreements are often reduced as net assets exceed various threshold levels. Annual rates also vary by investment objective and type of services provided. Our agreements generally permit us to provide  services to more than one fund and to other clients so long as our ability to render services to each of the funds is not impaired, and so long as purchases and sales of portfolio securities for various advised funds are made on an equitable basis.

We use a “master/feeder” fund of funds structure in certain situations. This structure allows an investment adviser to manage a single portfolio of securities at the “master fund” level and have multiple “feeder funds” that invest substantially all of their respective assets into the master fund. Individual and institutional shareholders invest in the “feeder funds,” which can offer a variety of service and distribution options. A management fee may be charged either at the master fund level or the feeder fund level depending on the specific requirements of the fund, although funds also involving performance fees or carried interest will typically charge these together with management fees at the master fund level. Administrative, shareholder servicing and custodian fees are often waived at the feeder fund level and only charged at the master fund level, although the feeder funds will indirectly bear their pro-rata share of the expenses of the master fund as an investor in the master fund. Fees and expenses specific to a feeder fund may be charged at the level of that feeder fund. In the U.S., our funds of funds enter into expense allocation arrangements with their affiliated underlying funds pursuant to which the underlying funds pay certain expenses of the fund of funds.

For our U.S. Funds, our management personnel and the fund directors or trustees regularly review the investment management fee structures for the funds in light of fund performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors. Investment management fees are generally waived or voluntarily reduced when a new fund is established and then increased to contractual levels within an established timeline or as net asset values reach certain levels.

Our Non-U.S. Funds, unregistered funds, institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts, and the sub-advised products that we manage, have various termination rights and review and renewal provisions.

2.    Sales, Distribution and Marketing

A significant portion of our revenues are generated from providing sales and distribution services. Our mutual funds and certain other products generally pay us distribution fees in return for sales, distribution and marketing  efforts on their behalf. Fund shares are sold primarily through a large network of independent intermediaries, including broker/dealers, financial advisers and other third parties.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. (“FTDI”) acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of shares of most of our open-end U.S. Funds. Certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries provide sales, distribution and marketing services to our Non-U.S. Funds distributed outside the U.S. Some of our Non-U.S. Funds, particularly the Luxembourg-domiciled Franklin Templeton Investment Funds Société d’Investissement à Capital Variable (“SICAV”), are distributed globally on a cross-border basis, while others are distributed exclusively in local markets. We earn sales and distribution fees primarily by distributing our funds pursuant to distribution agreements between FTDI or our non-U.S. subsidiaries and the funds. Under each distribution agreement, we offer and sell the fund’s shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs associated with selling, distributing and marketing the fund’s shares, including the costs of developing and producing sales literature, shareholder reports and prospectuses, which may then be either partially or fully reimbursed by the funds.

Most of our retail funds are distributed with a multi-class share structure. We adopted this share structure to provide investors with more sales charge alternatives for their investments. Certain share classes, such as Class A shares, are sold without a front-end sales charge to shareholders when certain investment criteria are met, although our distribution subsidiaries pay an up-front commission to financial intermediaries on these sales. Class B shares, which are available in some of our Non-U.S. Funds, have no front-end sales charges, but instead have a declining schedule of sales charges (called contingent deferred sales charges) if the investor redeems within a certain number of years from the original purchase date. Although our open-end U.S. Funds that had offered Class B shares no longer offer these shares, existing Class B shareholders may continue to exchange shares into Class B shares of different funds and may continue to reinvest dividends on Class B shares in additional Class B shares. All remaining Class B shares in our U.S. Funds will convert to Class A shares by March 2013. Class C shares also have no front-end sales charges, although









our distribution subsidiaries pay an up-front commission to financial intermediaries on these sales. Class C shares do have a back-end sales charge for redemptions within 12 months from the date of purchase. Although Class C shares are generally more costly to us in the year of sale, they allow us to be competitive by increasing our presence in various distribution channels. Class R shares are available for purchase by certain retirement, college savings and health savings plan accounts in the U.S. only. Outside of the U.S., we offer additional share classes and unit series in response to local needs.

In the U.S., we also offer Advisor Class shares in many of our Franklin and Templeton funds, and we offer Class Z shares in the Mutual Series funds, both of which have no sales charges. Advisor and Class Z shares are offered to certain qualified financial intermediaries, institutions and high net-worth clients (both affiliated and unaffiliated) who have assets held in accounts managed by a subsidiary of Franklin and are also available to our full-time employees and current and former officers, trustees and directors. In the U.S., we also offer money market funds to investors without a sales charge. Under the terms and conditions described in the prospectuses or the statements of additional information for some funds, certain investors can purchase shares at net asset value or at reduced sales charges. Outside the U.S., we offer share classes similar to the Advisor Class shares to certain types of investors, although depending upon the fund and the country(ies) in which the fund is domiciled, the equivalent share class may be offered on a more restrictive or less restrictive basis than the similar U.S. Advisor Class shares.

Some of our insurance products funds offered for sale in the U.S. offer a four-class share structure, Class 1, Class 2, Class 3 and Class 4 shares, which are offered at net asset value without a sales charge directly to insurance company separate accounts, certain qualified plans and other mutual funds (funds of funds).

Internationally, we offer types of share classes based on the local needs of the investors in a particular market, subject to applicable regulations which may change over time. In the majority of cases, investors in any class of shares may exchange their shares for a like class of shares in another fund, subject to certain fees that may apply. Our Non-U.S. Funds have sales charges and fee structures that vary by region.

We derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker/dealers and other similar intermediaries. The distribution agreements with our open-end U.S. Funds generally provide for FTDI to pay commission expenses for sales of fund shares to qualifying broker/dealers and intermediaries. These broker/dealers receive various sales commissions and other fees from FTDI for services in matching investors with funds whose investment objectives match such investors’ goals and risk profiles. Broker/dealers may also receive fees for their assistance in explaining the operations of the funds and in servicing and maintaining investors’ accounts, and for reporting and various other distribution services. We are heavily dependent upon these third-party distribution and sales channels and business relationships. FTDI may also make payments to certain broker/dealers who provide marketing support services, as described further below. There is increasing competition for access to these channels, which has caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future as competition continues and service expectations increase. As of September 30,


, approximately 1,500 local, regional and national banks, securities firms and financial adviser firms offered shares of our open-end U.S. Funds for sale to the U.S. investing public, and approximately 3,600 banks, securities firms and financial adviser firms offered shares of our cross-border Non-U.S. Funds for sale outside of the U.S. In the U.S., we have approximately 90 general wholesalers who interface with financial intermediaries.

Most of our open-end U.S. Funds, with the exception of certain of our money market funds as well as certain high net-worth and institutional funds, have adopted distribution plans under Rule 12b-1 (the “Rule 12b-1 Plans”) promulgated under the Investment Company Act (“Rule 12b-1”). Under the Rule 12b-1 Plans, the funds bear certain expenses relating to the distribution of their shares, such as expenses for marketing, marketing support, advertising, printing and sales promotion, and may provide for the funds to reimburse such expenses that FTDI incurs in distributing the funds, subject to the Rule 12b-1 Plans’ limitations on amounts. Each fund has a percentage limit for these types of expenses based on its average daily net AUM. In 2010, the SEC proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds.

The Rule 12b-1 Plans are established for one year terms and must be approved annually by each fund’s board of directors or trustees and by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act (the “disinterested fund directors/trustees”). All of these Rule 12b-1 Plans are subject to termination at any time by a majority vote of the disinterested fund directors/trustees or by the particular fund









shareholders. Fees from the Rule 12b-1 Plans that FTDI receives as revenues are paid primarily to third-party broker/dealers who provide services to the shareholder accounts and engage in distribution activities. Similar arrangements exist with the distribution of our Non-U.S. Funds where, generally, our subsidiary that distributes the funds in the local market arranges for and pays commissions and certain other fees to banks and other intermediaries, a portion of which fees is paid from maintenance fees received by the subsidiary and a portion of which may derive from the management fees paid to our various affiliates by the funds.

FTDI and/or its affiliates may make the following additional payments to broker/dealers that sell shares of our funds:

Marketing support payments.

Transaction support and other payments.FTDI may pay ticket charges per purchase or exchange order placed by a broker/dealer or one-time payments for ancillary services, such as setting up funds on a broker/dealer’s fund trading system. From time to time, FTDI, at its expense, may make additional payments to broker/dealers that sell or arrange for the sale of shares of our U.S. Funds. FTDI routinely sponsors due diligence meetings for registered representatives during which they receive updates on various funds and are afforded the opportunity to speak with portfolio managers. Invitation to these meetings is not conditioned on selling a specific number of shares. Those who have shown an interest in our funds, however, are more likely to be considered. To the extent permitted by their firm’s policies and procedures, registered representatives’ expenses in attending these meetings may be covered by FTDI. Similar payments may be made by our non-U.S. subsidiaries that distribute our Non-U.S. Funds to third party distributors of such funds.

Other compensation may be offered to the extent not prohibited by federal or state laws or any self-regulatory agency, such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). FTDI makes payments for events it deems appropriate, subject to FTDI’s guidelines and applicable law.

3.    Shareholder and Transfer Agency Services

We receive shareholder servicing fees for providing transfer agency services, which include providing customer statements, transaction processing, customer service, and tax reporting. One of our subsidiaries, Franklin Templeton Investor Services, LLC (“FTIS”), serves as shareholder servicing and dividend-paying agent for our open-end U.S. Funds. FTIS is registered with the SEC as a transfer agent under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Generally, FTIS is compensated under an agreement with each fund on the basis of an annual per account fee that varies with the fund and the type of services being provided. FTIS also is reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses. Other subsidiaries provide similar services to our Non-U.S. Funds, and in some cases are compensated based on AUM.

FTIS may also pay servicing fees to third-party intermediaries primarily to help offset costs associated with client account maintenance support, statement preparation and transaction processing. Such third parties: (i) maintain omnibus









accounts with the fund in the institution’s name on behalf of numerous beneficial owners of fund shares; or (ii) provide support for fund shareholder accounts by sharing account data with FTIS through the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation systems. The funds reimburse FTIS for these third party payments.

4.    High Net-Worth Investment Management and Related Services

Through Fiduciary Trust (including its trust company and investment adviser subsidiaries), we provide investment management and related services to, among others, high net-worth individuals and families, foundations and institutional clients. Similarly, through our Canadian high net-worth business unit, Fiduciary Trust Company of Canada (“FTCC”), we provide services and offer sponsored investment products to high net-worth individuals and families. Our high net-worth client business seeks to maintain relationships that span generations and help families plan the most appropriate method of intergenerational wealth transfer.

Individual client assets are typically held in accounts separately managed by individual portfolio managers. These portfolio managers determine asset allocation and stock selection for client accounts, taking into consideration each client’s specific long-term objectives while utilizing our macroeconomic and individual stock research.

Fiduciary Trust services that focus on managing family wealth from generation to generation include wealth management and estate and tax planning. We offer clients personalized attention and estate planning expertise in an integrated package of services known as Family Resource Management®(“FRM”). Services under FRM provide clients with an integrated strategy to optimize wealth accumulation and maximize after-tax wealth transfer to the next generation. Evaluation of third-party investment management products or services is performed by the Strategic Advisory Group, an investment advisory group within Fiduciary Trust.

5.    Institutional Investment Management

We provide a broad array of investment management services to institutional clients, focusing on foundations, endowment funds and government and corporate pension plans. Our subsidiaries offer a wide range of both U.S. and international equity, fixed-income and alternative strategies through a variety of investment vehicles, including separate accounts, open-end and closed-end funds and unregistered funds. In the U.S., we generally operate our institutional business under the trade name “Franklin Templeton Institutional.”

Through various legal entities, including Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC and various non-U.S. subsidiaries, we distribute and market globally the different capabilities of our various subsidiaries under the Franklin, Templeton, Mutual Series, Bissett, Darby and Balanced Equity Management brand names. We primarily attract new institutional business through our strong relationships with pension and management consultants, direct sales efforts and additional mandates from our existing client relationships, as well as from our responses to requests for proposals.

Our U.S. retirement business is conducted through divisions of FTDI that work closely with sponsors, consultants, record keepers and financial advisors of defined contribution plans, including 401(k) plans, variable annuity products and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”). We offer our capabilities to the U.S. retirement industry through a number of investment options, including sub-advised portfolios, funds, education savings plans and variable insurance funds.

Through our various subsidiaries, we also market and distribute our sponsored investment products to separately-managed accounts. Our subsidiaries, Franklin Templeton Financial Services Corp. and Templeton/Franklin Investment Services, Inc., also serve as direct marketing broker/dealers for institutional investors for certain of our institutional mutual and private funds.

6.    Trust and Custody

Through various trust company subsidiaries, including Fiduciary Trust, we offer trust, custody and related services, including administration, performance measurement, estate planning, tax planning and private banking. We provide planned giving administration and related custody services for non-profit organizations, including pooled income funds, charitable remainder trusts, charitable lead trusts and gift annuities, for which we may or may not act as trustee. Our other subsidiaries involved in the trust business, either as trust companies or companies investing in trust companies,   have full trust powers. Our subsidiary, Franklin Templeton Bank & Trust, F.S.B. (“FTB&T”), a federally chartered savings bank, among other functions, exercises full trust powers and serves primarily as custodian of IRAs and business









retirement plans invested solely in Franklin Templeton funds. FTB&T also provides Advisor Directed Trust®, a directed trust service.

7.    Alternative Investment Products Management

Darby is primarily engaged in sponsoring and managing funds that invest in private equity and mezzanine finance transactions in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Central/Eastern Europe. Darby offers these investment funds through private placements to institutional and high net-worth individual investors.

Templeton Asset Management Ltd., an investment adviser, sponsors and manages a limited number of investment partnerships that also invest primarily in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Central/Eastern Europe.

Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC, an investment adviser, manages investment partnerships that invest in funds with exposure to global real estate opportunities.

Franklin Advisers, Inc. (“FAI”), an investment adviser, manages an investment partnership that invests in derivatives across the global equity, global government bond and currency markets. FAI creates tactical long and short positions within the partnership based on a daily review of macroeconomic and valuation factors to determine the relative attractiveness of asset classes to each other as well as the attractiveness of individual factors within asset classes.

8.    Select Private Banking

Fiduciary Trust, with assets of $901.6 million and deposits of $611.0 million as of September 30, 2012, is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), and provides private banking services primarily to high net-worth clients who maintain trust, custody and/or management accounts.  Fiduciary Trust's private banking and credit products include, among others, loans secured by marketable securities, deposit accounts and other banking services. Deposits generally include demand and savings deposits, primarily from our private banking clients.

FTB&T, with assets of $187.6 million and deposits of $60.7 million as of September 30, 2012, is also insured by the FDIC. FTB&T currently provides limited lending services to existing Fiduciary Trust and FTB&T customers.

Summary of Our Sponsored Investment Products

Our sponsored investment products are offered globally to retail, institutional, high net-worth and separate account clients, which include individual investors, qualified groups, trustees, tax-deferred (such as IRAs in the U.S. and retirement saving plans, or RSPs, in Canada) or money purchase plans, employee benefit and profit sharing plans, trust companies, bank trust departments and institutional investors. Our sponsored investment products include portfolios managed for some of the world’s largest corporations, endowments, charitable foundations and pension funds, as well as wealthy individuals and other institutions. We use various investment techniques to focus on specific client objectives for these specialized portfolios.

1.    Investment Objectives Overview

The sponsored investment products that we offer accommodate a variety of investment goals, spanning the spectrum of our clients’ risk tolerance - from capital appreciation (with our more growth-oriented products) to capital preservation (with our fixed-income offerings). In seeking to achieve such objectives, each portfolio emphasizes different strategies and invests in different types of instruments.

Our equity investment products include some that are considered value-oriented, others that are considered growth-oriented, and some that use a combination of growth and value characteristics, generally identified as blend or core products. Value investing focuses on identifying companies that our research analysts and portfolio managers believe are undervalued based on a number of different factors, usually put in the context of historical ratios such as price-to-earnings or price-to-book value; however, we also consider the future earnings potential of each individual company on a multi-year basis. Growth investing focuses on identifying companies that our research analysts and portfolio managers believe have sustainable growth characteristics, meeting our criteria for sustainable growth potential, quality and valuation. In this effort, the key variables we examine include: market opportunity (overall size and growth); competitive positioning of the company; assessment of management (strength, breadth, depth, and integrity) and









execution of plans; and the general financial strength and profitability of the enterprise, to determine whether the growth and quality aspects are properly reflected in the current share price. Paramount to all of our different equity products is the incorporation of independent, fundamental research through our own collaborative in-house group of investment professionals. Our approach across the variety of equity products we manage emphasizes bottom-up stock selection within a disciplined portfolio construction process, and is complemented by our ongoing assessment of risk at both the security and portfolio levels.

Portfolios seeking income generally focus on one or more of the following securities: taxable and tax-exempt money market instruments; tax-exempt municipal bonds; global fixed-income securities; and fixed-income debt securities of corporations, of the U.S. government and its sponsored agencies and instrumentalities, such as the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or of the various states in the U.S. Others focus on investments in particular countries and regions.

2.    Types of Sponsored Investment Products

As of September 30,2012, our AUM was$749.9 billion.

Our U.S. Funds (including open-end and closed-end funds and our insurance products trust) accounted for$416.3 billionof AUM as of September 30,2012. Our five largest U.S. Funds and their AUM were Franklin Income Fund ($68.6 billion), Templeton Global Bond Fund ($63.2 billion), Mutual Global Discovery Fund ($18.1 billion), Templeton Growth Fund ($15.1 billion) and Franklin California Tax-Free Income Fund ($14.8 billion). These five funds represented, in the aggregate, 24% of total AUM.

Our cross-border products, which are comprised of a variety of investment funds domiciled in Luxembourg and Ireland and registered for sale to non-U.S. investors in 39 countries, accounted for$143.6 billionof AUM as of September 30,2012. Our three largest cross-border funds and their AUM were FTIF - Templeton Global Bond Fund ($42.5 billion), FTIF - Templeton Global Total Return Fund ($25.9 billion) and FTIF - Templeton Asian Growth Fund ($16.8 billion). These three funds represented, in the aggregate, 11% of total AUM.

In addition to our cross-border products, in some countries we offer products for the particular local market. These local/regional funds accounted for$41.6 billionof AUM as of September 30,2012.

On a company-wide basis, our managed accounts, alternative investment products and trusts accounted for$148.4 billionof AUM as of September 30,2012, of which $5.2 billion included Darby products and real estate, emerging markets and global fixed-income investment partnerships.









3.    AUM by Product and Investment Categories

The following table shows AUM by the various types of our sponsored investment products and investment categories as of September 30,2012:





(in billions)CATEGORYINVESTMENT CLASSIFICATIONU.S.FundsCross-BorderFundsLocal/RegionalFundsOther Managed Accounts,Alternative InvestmentProducts and TrustsTotal

Equity

Asia-PacificInvests primarily in equity securities of companies located in the Asia-Pacific region$2.2$21.0$3.6$20.7$47.5

CanadaInvests primarily in equity securities of companies located in Canada——4.24.48.6

Europe, the Middle East and AfricaInvests primarily in equity securities of companies located in Europe, the Middle East and Africa1.94.25.40.512.0

U.S.Invests primarily in equity securities of companies located in the U.S.67.15.71.57.982.2

Emerging MarketsInvests primarily in equity securities of companies located in developing regions of the world4.97.23.94.720.7

Global/InternationalInvests primarily in equity securities of companies doing business either worldwide or only outside of the U.S.61.510.16.048.5126.1

Total Equity137.648.224.686.7297.1

Hybrid/Balanced

Asia-PacificInvests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies located in the Asia-Pacific region——1.21.93.1

CanadaInvests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies located in Canada——1.92.74.6

Europe, the Middle East and AfricaInvests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies located in Europe, the Middle East and Africa—0.7——0.7

U.S.Invests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies located in the U.S.80.31.3—17.599.1

Global/InternationalInvests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies doing business either worldwide or only outside of the U.S.1.11.20.20.12.6

Total Hybrid/Balanced81.43.23.322.2110.1









(in billions)CATEGORYINVESTMENT CLASSIFICATIONU.S.FundsCross-BorderFundsLocal/RegionalFundsOther Managed Accounts,Alternative InvestmentProducts and TrustsTotalFixed-IncomeAsia-PacificInvests primarily in debt securities offered by companies and governments located in the Asia-Pacific region$—$4.0$4.6$1.0$9.6CanadaInvests primarily in debt securities of companies and governments located in Canada——3.50.43.9Europe, the Middle East and AfricaInvests primarily in debt securities of companies and governments located in Europe, the Middle East and Africa—1.0—4.75.7Tax-FreeInvests primarily in municipal bond issuers located in the U.S.78.5——4.783.2U.S. TaxableInvests primarily in taxable debt securities of companies and governments located in the U.S.39.78.91.86.356.7Emerging MarketsInvests primarily in taxable debt securities of companies and governments located in developing countries worldwide1.38.1—7.516.9Global/InternationalInvests primarily in debt securities of companies and governments doing business either worldwide or only outside of the U.S.73.069.62.814.9160.3Total Fixed- Income192.591.612.739.5336.3Cash ManagementInvests primarily in money market instruments and short-term securities4.80.61.0—6.4Total$416.3$143.6$41.6$148.4$749.9



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Certain financial information about the Company's business segment and geographic areas is contained in Note 18 – Segment Information in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.



REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS

Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to various federal, state, and international regulation and supervision which continue to change and evolve over time. Consequently, there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environments in which we operate.

U.S. Regulation

In the U.S., we are currently subject to regulation and supervision by, among others, the SEC, FINRA, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”), the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the New York State Department of Financial Services (“NYDFS”).

The regulatory environments in which we operate remain uncertain and subject to change. The Reform Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose additional restrictions and limitations on us and will likely









We also expect that FATCA will cause us to incur significant administrative and compliance costs. FATCA, which is intended to address tax compliance issues related to U.S. taxpayers holding non-U.S. accounts, will require non-U.S. financial institutions to report to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) information about financial accounts held by U.S. taxpayers and impose withholding, documentation and reporting requirements on non-U.S. financial institutions. FATCA remains subject to the adoption of applicable regulations by the IRS, and full implementation will be phased in over a multi-year period, commencing in 2013. In addition, changes to the regulation of money market funds currently under discussion could significantly change the structure and operations of those funds.

To the extent our operations or trading in our securities take place outside the U.S., we are subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulations and regulators, and U.S. regulations and regulators such as the Department of Justice and the SEC with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977.

The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on certain of our subsidiaries registered with the SEC as investment advisers, including record keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations on the investment companies that are advised by our subsidiaries. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration.

The Company and many of the investment companies advised by our various subsidiaries are subject to federal securities laws and state securities and corporate laws, including those affecting corporate governance, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the SEC. As a NYSE-listed company, we are also subject to the rules of the NYSE, including its corporate governance standards. The federal securities laws have also been augmented by other measures, including the USA Patriot Act of 2001.

FINRA Conduct Rules limit the amount of aggregate sales charges that may be paid in connection with the purchase and holding of investment company shares sold through broker/dealers. The effect of the rule is to limit the amount of fees that could be paid pursuant to a fund’s Rule 12b-1 Plan to FTDI, our principal sales and distribution subsidiary in the U.S., which earns distribution fees on the distribution of fund shares in the U.S. In 2010, the SEC proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds.

In addition, in connection with our banking services, we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the FRB and the restrictions, limitations and prohibitions of the BHC Act, as amended by the GLB Act. Significant aspects of the Reform Act relate to changes in the regulation of banks, thrifts, holding companies and related institutions, and the imposition of various restrictions and limitations on certain activities of such entities. The Reform Act includes a number of measures that will increase capital and liquidity requirements, impose limits on leverage, subject dividend payments, stock buybacks and other reductions of capital to heightened regulatory scrutiny, and enhance supervisory authority and regulatory oversight of non-banking entities, which may apply to our business.









FRB policy historically has required bank holding companies to act as a source of strength to their banking subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to support those subsidiaries. The Reform Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement.  Such support may be required by the FRB at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. In addition, under FRB policy bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available from the previous fiscal year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with anticipated future needs and financial condition.

The Federal banking agencies apply risk-based and leverage capital guidelines to evaluate the capital adequacy of bank holding companies and depository institutions.  The FRB's capital adequacy guidelines applicable to Franklin, the FDIC's capital adequacy guidelines applicable to Fiduciary Trust, and the OCC's capital adequacy guidelines applicable to FTB&T are substantially the same. Under the banking agencies' capital guidelines, Franklin and our banking subsidiaries must meet specific capital adequacy requirements that involve quantitative measures of our assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. To be considered “well capitalized” under the current guidelines, a bank holding company must maintain a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 10%, and a bank must maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5%. Bank holding companies are also subject to a leverage requirement, generally at least 5%, but that requirement is not a condition for “well capitalized” status. As of September 30,


, our Tier 1 leverage ratio was

59%

, and our Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios were

54%

. In addition, both Fiduciary Trust and FTB&T were well capitalized as of September 30,


. A depository institution generally is prohibited from making capital distributions, including paying dividends, or paying management fees to a holding company if the institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Moreover, undercapitalized institutions may not accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits. Bank regulators are required to take prompt corrective action to resolve any problems associated with insured depository institutions, such as Fiduciary Trust and FTB&T, if they become undercapitalized. The GLB Act, however, generally prohibits the FRB from imposing similar capital requirements on regulated non-bank subsidiaries of a financial holding company.

Franklin has elected to be a financial holding company under the GLB Act. Pursuant to the GLB Act, a qualifying bank holding company may elect to become a financial holding company to engage in a broader range of activities that are financial in nature, including securities underwriting, dealing and market making, securitizing assets, sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, engaging in insurance underwriting and brokerage activities and investing (without providing routine management) in companies engaged in non-financial activities. To qualify as a financial holding company, each of a bank holding company’s U.S. subsidiary banks and other depository institution subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well managed. The Reform Act added the condition that the bank holding company itself must be well capitalized and well managed. In addition, each such subsidiary must have achieved at least a “satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) in the evaluation preceding the financial holding company election. While FTB&T is subject to CRA requirements, Fiduciary Trust remains exempt from such requirements because it qualifies as a special purpose bank. Under this regulatory framework and the environment in which we operate, we are subject to significant constraints that may adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans and strategies.

The BHC Act generally requires that a bank holding company obtain prior approval of the FRB before acquiring control of any bank. In addition, the FRB may impose limitations, restrictions, or prohibitions on the activities or acquisitions of a financial holding company if the FRB believes that the financial holding company does not have appropriate financial and managerial resources. The FRB has broad authority to prohibit activities of bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries that represent unsafe and unsound banking practices or that constitute violations of law or regulation. Civil money penalties may be imposed against bank holding companies, their non-bank affiliates and officers and directors of such entities for certain activities conducted on a knowing or reckless basis if those activities cause a substantial loss to the bank holding company.

Each of our banking subsidiaries is subject to restrictions under federal law that limit transactions with Franklin and its non-bank subsidiaries, including loans and other extensions of credit, investments, or asset purchases. These and various other transactions, including any payment of money to Franklin and its non-bank subsidiaries, must be on terms and conditions that are, or in good faith would be, offered to companies that are not affiliated with these entities. In addition, these laws and related regulations may limit the Company’s ability to obtain funds from subsidiary banks or affiliates.









The operations and activities of Fiduciary Trust and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC and the NYDFS. Certain of the subsidiaries may also be subject to oversight by various other state regulators depending upon the specific business that is conducted by the particular subsidiary. FTB&T is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. The laws and regulations of these regulators generally impose restrictions and requirements, with which we must comply, on capital adequacy, anti-money laundering, management practices, liquidity, branching, earnings, loans, dividends, investments, reserves against deposits and the provision of services.

The federal banking agencies and the NYDFS have broad enforcement powers, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject Franklin, our thrift and banking subsidiaries, as well as officers, directors and other so-called “institution-affiliated parties” of these organizations to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil money penalties. In addition, the appropriate state or federal chartering agency may appoint the FDIC as conservator or receiver for a banking institution, or the FDIC may appoint itself if certain circumstances exist.

Non-U.S. Regulation

Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to the laws and regulations of certain non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. regulatory agencies and bodies. As we continue to expand our international presence, a number of our subsidiaries and international operations have become subject to regulatory systems, in various jurisdictions, comparable to those covering our operations in the U.S. Regulators in these non-U.S. jurisdictions may have broad authority with respect to the regulation of financial services including, among other things, the authority to grant or cancel required licenses or registrations. In addition, these regulators may subject certain of our subsidiaries to net capital requirements.

The Financial Services Authority (the “FSA”) currently regulates certain of our subsidiaries in the U.K. Authorization by the FSA is required to conduct any financial services related business in the U.K. pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The FSA’s rules under that act govern a firm’s capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients, and systems and controls. Breaches of these rules could result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries.

In addition to the above, our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and other European subsidiaries and branches, must comply with the pan-European regime established by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”), which became effective on November 1, 2007 and regulates the provision of investment services and conduct of investment activities throughout the European Economic Area (“EEA”), as well as the Capital Requirements Directive, which delineates regulatory capital requirements. MiFID sets out detailed requirements governing the organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity markets and extensive transaction reporting requirements.

The U.K. has adopted the MiFID rules into national legislation and FSA regulations, as have those other European jurisdictions in which we have a presence. A review of MiFID by the European Commission has led to the publication of a draft replacement directive (“MiFID 2”) and a draft new regulation. The proposals, if implemented, are likely to result in changes to pre- and post-trade reporting obligations and an expansion of the types of instruments subject to these requirements. They may affect the buying and selling of derivatives by moving most derivative trading onto regulated trading venues and may control the activities of algorithmic trading. The proposals may also result in changes to conduct of business requirements including selling practices, intermediary inducements and client categorization, as well as the conduct of activities within the European Union (“EU”) by non-EU advisers including ours. The proposals also envision giving the European Commission power to ban certain products and services. In addition, a European Commission proposal (the European Market Infrastructure Regulation), when implemented, will require the central clearing of standardized OTC derivatives.

In addition, the FSA has adopted new rules following its retail distribution review (“RDR” rules). These rules, which come into effect on December 31, 2012, will change how retail clients pay for investment advice given in respect of all retail investment products, including open-end and closed-end funds, structured products and insurance-based savings products. In preparation for RDR rule implementation, we have developed new share classes for our funds offered in the U.K., and we are in the process of amending our distribution agreements.









In the aftermath of the financial crisis, the European Commission set out a detailed plan for EU financial reform, outlining a number of initiatives to be reflected in new or updated directives, regulations and recommendations of which the MiFID review was part. These will have direct and indirect effects on our operations in the EEA and the sale into that region of products managed outside of the EEA.

The EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (“AIFMD”), which became effective on July 21, 2011, must be implemented by EU member states by July 22, 2013. The AIFMD will regulate managers of, and service providers to, alternative investment funds not authorized as UCITS retail funds (“AIFs”) domiciled within and outside the EU that are offered in the EU. The AIFMD will also regulate the marketing of all AIFs inside the EEA. In general, the AIFMD is expected to have a staged implementation between mid-2013 and 2018. Compliance with the AIFMD’s requirements may restrict AIF marketing and place additional compliance obligations in the form of remuneration policies, capital requirements, reporting requirements, leverage oversight, valuation, stakes in EU companies, the domicile, duties and liability of custodians and liquidity management.

The European Commission has also published proposals to replace the Market Abuse Directive with a regulation on insider dealing and market manipulation and with an accompanying directive on criminal sanctions. There are also ongoing plans to reform the framework to which regulated firms are subject, including in relation to regulatory capital and the protection of client assets, which will have a direct effect on some of our European operations.

The next iteration of the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directive (“UCITS IV”), which governs authorized retail funds (“UCITS”), was required to be adopted into the national law of each EU member state by July 1, 2011. Various EU states including the U.K., Luxembourg and Ireland have adopted UCITS IV requirements into national legislation and regulation. However, several other EU member states are still in various stages of the adoption process. UCITS IV introduced new requirements including a requirement on UCITS to provide a key investor information document (“KIID”) prior to any fund sale. The KIID is a two-page summary of the key aspects of each share class of a fund. There are also European Commission consultations in process that are intended to enhance retail investor protection, including UCITS V, which is intended to address, among other items, custodial liability and remuneration policies.

Recent proposals on packaged retail investment products (“PRIPs”) are to be implemented through the strengthening of MiFID standards (for non-insurance PRIPs), revisions to the Insurance Mediation Directive’s selling standard (for all insurance-based PRIPs) and new investor disclosure requirements for all PRIPs though a separate EU legislative process.

In addition, in September 2011, the European Commission proposed a financial transaction tax (“FTT proposal”) in the EU, which would, if approved by all 27 Member States, apply to all financial transactions where at least one party is established in an EU Member State and either that party or another party to the transaction is a financial institution. While the specific terms of the FTT proposal remain subject to negotiation, any tax on securities transactions could likely have a negative impact on the liquidity of the derivatives and securities markets in Europe and could adversely impact our European clients’ assets and our non-European clients to the extent that they are or want to be invested in European assets.

In Canada, our subsidiaries are subject to provincial and territorial laws and are registered with and regulated by provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities. The mandate of Canadian securities regulatory authorities is generally to protect investors and to foster fair and efficient capital markets. Securities regulatory authorities impose certain requirements on registrants, including a standard of conduct, capital and insurance, record keeping, regulatory financial reporting, conflict of interest management, compliance systems and securityholder reporting. Failure to comply with applicable securities laws, regulations and rules could result in, among other things, reprimands, suspension of or restrictions on an individual's or firm's registration, prohibitions from becoming or acting as a registrant, administrative penalties or disgorgement. In addition, as a federally licensed trust company, FTCC is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada and another subsidiary, FTC Investor Services Inc., is a member of and regulated by the Mutual Fund Dealers Association of Canada. These regulatory bodies have similar requirements to those of the securities regulatory authorities with a view to ensuring the capital adequacy and sound business practices of the subsidiaries and the appropriate treatment of their clients.









In June 2012, the Canadian Securities Administrators, the umbrella organization of provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities, released for comment proposed amendments to its rules regarding registrant obligations that will, if implemented, require additional disclosure by registrants to their clients, including enhanced disclosure at account opening of all operating charges and fees a client would be required to pay, pre-trade disclosure of any charges a client would be required to pay, enhanced reporting on client statements that includes charges paid by the client and all compensation received by registrants in respect of a client's account and new reporting regarding the performance

of investments held in the account. If adopted, these new rules would require us to make changes to our systems to comply with these new disclosure and reporting standards.

In Singapore, our subsidiaries are subject to, among others, the Securities and Futures Act (“SFA”), the Financial Advisers Act (“FAA”) and subsidiary legislation promulgated pursuant to these Acts. This legislation is administered by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”). Our asset management subsidiary and its employees conducting regulated activities specified in the SFA and/or the FAA are required to be licensed with the MAS. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, codes, directives, notices and guidelines issued by the MAS may result in penalties including fines, censures and the suspension or revocation of licenses granted by the MAS.

In Australia, our subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws and are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (“ASIC”). ASIC regulates companies, financial markets and financial services in Australia. ASIC imposes certain conditions on licensed financial services organizations that apply to our subsidiaries, including requirements relating to capital resources, operational capability and controls. Failure to comply with applicable law, regulations or conditions could result in various sanctions being imposed including cancellation, suspension or variation of the licenses held by our Australian subsidiaries.

In Hong Kong, our subsidiary is subject to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (the “SFO”), which governs the securities and futures markets and regulates, among others, offers of investments to the public and provides for the licensing of trading activities and intermediaries. The SFO is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (the “SFC”). The SFC is also empowered under the SFO to establish standards for compliance as well as codes and guidelines. Our subsidiary and its employees conducting any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are required to be licensed with the SFC, and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC from time to time. Failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC could result in the suspension or revocation of the licenses granted by the SFC.

In India, our subsidiaries are primarily subject to relevant regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) and the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (“FIPB”). A failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes, notices, directives, guidelines, orders, circulars and schemes issued by SEBI, RBI or FIPB may result in penalties including fines, censures and/or suspension or revocation of licenses, approvals or registration status.

In Japan, our subsidiary is subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the “FIEL”) and the Law Concerning Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency (the “JFSA”), which establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEL.

There are similar legal and regulatory arrangements in force in many other non-U.S. jurisdictions where our subsidiaries, branches and representative offices, as well as certain joint ventures or companies in which we own minority stakes, are authorized to conduct business. We are subject to regulation and supervision by, among others, the Securities Commission of The Bahamas; the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários in Brazil; the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority; the China Securities Regulatory Commission in the People’s Republic of China; the Autorité des Marchés Financiers in France; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority in Germany; the Central Bank of Ireland; the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa in Italy; the Financial Services Commission and the Financial Supervisory Service in Korea; the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg; the Securities Commission in Malaysia; the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores in Mexico; the Autoriteit Financiële Markten in The Netherlands; the Polish Securities and Exchange Commission; the Romanian National Securities Commission;









the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores in Spain; the Finansinspektionen in Sweden; the Swiss Federal Banking Commission; the Securities and Futures Bureau of the Ministry of Finance in the Republic of China; the Dubai Financial Services Authority in the United Arab Emirates; and the State Securities Commission of Vietnam.



COMPETITION

The financial services industry is a highly competitive global industry. There are approximately 9,600 open-end investment funds of varying sizes, and with varying investment policies and objectives, whose shares are offered to the public in the U.S., and there are approximately 63,000 open-end investment funds whose shares are offered to the public outside the U.S.

We face strong competition from numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions, which offer a wide range of financial and investment management services to the same institutional accounts, separate accounts, retail investors and high net-worth clients that we are seeking to attract. Competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged.

Due to our international presence and varied product mix, it is difficult to assess our market position relative to other investment managers on a worldwide basis, but we believe that we are one of the more widely diversified asset managers based in the U.S. We believe that our equity and fixed-income asset mix coupled with our global presence will serve our competitive needs well over the long term. We continue to focus on the long-term performance of our investment products, service to clients and extensive marketing activities through our strong broker/dealer and other financial institution distribution network as well as with high net-worth and institutional clients. We believe that performance, diversity of products and customer service, along with fees and costs, are the primary drivers of competition in the financial services industry.

The periodic establishment of new investment management firms and investment products increases the competition that we face. Many of our competitors have long-standing and established relationships with broker/dealers, investment advisers and their clients. Others have focused on, offer and market specific product lines, which provide strong competition to certain of our asset classes. In addition, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors, some with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own.

We rely largely on third-party broker/dealers and other similar intermediaries to distribute and sell our fund shares. We have and continue to pursue sales relationships with all types of intermediaries to broaden our distribution network. We have experienced increased costs related to maintaining our distribution channels and we anticipate that this trend will continue. A failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major intermediaries who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. Additionally, competing broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could further limit the distribution of our investment products. Any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of AUM, related revenues and overall business and financial condition.

We maintain a technology platform to compete with the rapidly developing and evolving marketplace. However, technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced platforms for their products, which could affect our business.

We believe that we are well positioned to deal with changes in marketing trends as a result of our already extensive advertising activities and broad based marketplace recognition. We conduct advertising and promotional campaigns through various media sources to promote brand recognition. We advertise in major financial publications, as well as on television and the Internet, to promote brand name recognition and to assist our distribution network. Such activities include purchasing network and cable programming, sponsorship of sporting events, newspaper and magazine advertising, online and paid search advertising and social media marketing.











INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We have used, registered, and/or applied to register certain trademarks, service marks and trade names to distinguish our sponsored investment products and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and in other countries and jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, Franklin®, Templeton®, Mutual Series®, Bissett®, Fiduciary Trust™, Darby®and Balanced Equity Management™. Our trademarks, service marks and trade names are important to us and, accordingly, we enforce our trademark, service mark and trade name rights. The Franklin Templeton Investments®brand has been, and continues to be, extremely well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. If our brand is harmed, our future business prospects may be adversely affected.



EMPLOYEES

As of September 30,2012, we employed approximately8,600employees and operated offices in 35 countries. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Franklin files reports with the SEC, including current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information filed with or furnished to the SEC from time to time. The public may read and copy any of these filings at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Franklin, who file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. Additional information about the Company’s filings can also be obtained at our website at www.franklinresources.com under “Investor Relations.” We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

Corporate Governance Guidelines.The Company has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.

Committee Charters.The Company’s Board of Directors has an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Directors has adopted written charters for each such committee, which are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.



