Item 1.Business.

OVERVIEW

Franklin Resources, Inc. (“Franklin”) is a holding company that, together with its various subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”), operates as Franklin Templeton Investments®. We are a global investment management organization that provides investment management and related services to retail, institutional and high net-worth clients in jurisdictions worldwide. We believe in the value of active investment management, as well as in building on our strengths to pursue alternative strategies to meet the evolving needs of our clients. We are committed to delivering strong investment performance for our clients by drawing on the experience and perspective gained through our nearly 70-year history in the investment management business. The common stock of Franklin is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the ticker symbol “BEN,” and is included in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. In this report, words such as “we,” “us,” “our” and similar terms refer to the Company.

We offer our investment products and services under our Franklin®, Templeton®, Franklin Mutual Series®, Franklin Bissett®, Fiduciary Trust™, Darby®, Balanced Equity Management®, K2®and LibertyShares™brand names. Unless otherwise indicated, our “funds” means the investment funds offered under our brand names.

As ofSeptember 30, 2016, we had$733.3 billionin assets under management (“AUM”). Our products include investment funds and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts (collectively, our “sponsored investment products” or “SIPs”). Our investment funds include U.S.-registered funds (“U.S. Funds”), non-U.S.-registered funds (“Non-U.S. Funds”), and unregistered funds. In addition to investment management, our product services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing, and other fiduciary services. We offer a broad product mix under our equity, hybrid, fixed income and cash management investment objectives and solutions that meet a variety of investment goals and needs for different investors. We also provide sub-advisory services to certain investment products sponsored by other companies which may be sold to investors under the brand names of those other companies or on a co-branded basis.

In 2016, we introduced our Franklin LibertyShares platform of strategic beta and actively managed exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”). Our new ETF platform generally seeks to provide investors with additional investment options versus traditional market capitalization weighted index products.

Most of the investment funds we manage are registered open-end mutual funds that continuously offer their shares to investors. We also offer registered closed-end funds that issue a set number of shares to investors in a public offering and the shares are then traded on a public stock exchange. The registered funds are independent companies under the supervision and oversight of the funds’own boards of directors or trustees. Since the funds themselves do not have direct employees to support









their operations, the funds contract with separate entities, such as our subsidiaries, to provide the investment management and related services they require. An investment advisory entity manages a fund’s portfolio of securities in accordance with the fund’s stated objectives. Investors may purchase shares of an open-end fund through a broker-dealer, financial adviser, bank or other similar financial intermediary that may provide investment advice to the investor, while investors may purchase shares of a closed-end fund on the stock exchange where the fund is traded. Financial intermediaries may earn fees and commissions and receive other compensation with respect to the fund shares managed or sold to investors.

The business and regulatory environments in which we operate globally remain complex, uncertain and subject to change. We are subject to various laws, rules and regulations globally that impose restrictions, limitations and registration, reporting and disclosure requirements on our business and add complexity to our global compliance operations.

We continue to focus on the long-term investment performance of our SIPs and on providing high quality customer service to our clients. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the Risk Factors discussed below in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, and other factors as discussed in this section.



COMPANY HISTORY AND ACQUISITIONS

The Company and its predecessors have been engaged in the investment management and related services business since 1947. Franklin was incorporated in Delaware in November 1969 and originated our mutual fund business with the Franklin family of funds. The Franklin funds are known for U.S. taxable and tax-free fixed income funds, hybrid funds, and growth- and value-oriented equity funds. We have expanded our business, in part, by acquiring companies engaged in the investment management and/or related services business.

In October 1992, we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the investment management and related services business of Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. This acquisition added the Templeton family of funds to our organization. The Templeton funds are known for their global investment strategies and value style of investing.

In November 1996, we acquired certain assets and liabilities of Heine Securities Corporation, including Mutual Series Fund Inc., which now operates under the name Franklin Mutual Series. Franklin Mutual Series provides investment management services to various accounts and investment companies and is known for its value-oriented equity funds.

In July 2000, we expanded our business in South Korea when we acquired all of the remaining outstanding shares of a South Korean investment management company, Templeton Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd., in which we previously held a partial interest, making us one of the largest independent foreign asset managers in South Korea at that time. The company has been renamed Franklin Templeton Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd.

In October 2000, we expanded our business in Canada when we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Bissett & Associates Investment Management Ltd., which now operates under the name Franklin Bissett Investment Management as part of our Canadian subsidiary, Franklin Templeton Investments Corp. With this acquisition, we added Bissett’s family of Canadian taxable fixed income and growth-oriented equity investment funds to our Canadian-based funds.

In April 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Fiduciary Trust Company International (“Fiduciary Trust”). Fiduciary Trust is currently a New York state-chartered limited purpose trust company that performs trust and fiduciary activities. Fiduciary Trust, together with its subsidiaries, also provides investment management and related services to, among others, high net-worth individuals and families, foundations and institutional clients.

In July 2002, we expanded our business in India when we acquired all of the outstanding shares of an Indian investment management company, Pioneer ITI AMC Limited, through our majority-owned subsidiary Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Private Limited (“FTAM India”). In April 2007, we completed the purchase of the remaining 25% interest in each of FTAM India, which provides asset management and investment advisory services, and Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Private Limited, a regulated trust company, each located in India.

In October 2003, we expanded our private equity investment management services in emerging markets when we acquired all of the remaining outstanding shares of Darby Overseas Investments, Ltd. and all of the remaining outstanding limited partnership interests of Darby Overseas Partners, L.P. (collectively, “Darby”), in which we previously held a partial interest. Darby, based in Washington, D.C., sponsors and manages funds for institutional investors and high net-worth individuals that invest primarily in emerging markets through private equity, private debt and infrastructure investment transactions, including regional and specialized sector funds.









In July 2006, we expanded our business in Brazil when we completed the purchase of all of the remaining interests in a Brazilian investment management company, Bradesco Templeton Asset Management Ltda., in which we previously held a partial interest. The company has been renamed Franklin Templeton Investimentos (Brasil) Ltda. and provides investment management services.

In January 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of a specialty United Kingdom (“U.K.”) equity manager, Rensburg Fund Management Limited (“Rensburg”). Rensburg has been renamed Franklin Templeton Fund Management Limited and serves as a U.K.-based equity manager.

In July 2011, we expanded our business in Australia when we acquired all of the outstanding shares of a specialty Australian equity manager, Balanced Equity Management Pty. Limited, which provides investment management services.

In November 2012, we acquired approximately69%of the equity of K2 Advisors Holdings LLC (“K2”), a fund of hedge funds solutions provider. We also agreed to acquire K2’s remaining equity interests over a multi-year period beginning in 2017.



OUR INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT BUSINESS

We are committed to providing active investment management and strategic advice. Through our SIPs, we serve a variety of retail, institutional and high net-worth clients in regions and jurisdictions worldwide. We derive our revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to our SIPs and the sub-advised products that we service. Our investment management fees, which represent the majority of our revenues, depend to a large extent on the level and mix of our AUM and the types of services provided. Sales and distribution fees, also a significant source of our revenues, consist of sales charges and commissions derived from sales and distribution of our SIPs.

Our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, including those registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the “Advisers Act”), subsidiaries registered as investment adviser equivalents in jurisdictions including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, South Korea, The Bahamas, the United Arab Emirates, the U.K., and certain other subsidiaries.

AUM by Investment Objective

We offer a broad product mix under our equity, hybrid, fixed income and cash management investment objectives and solutions. Our fees for providing investment management services are generally based on a percentage of the market value of AUM in the accounts that we advise, the investment objectives of the accounts and the types of services that we provide for the accounts. As ofSeptember 30, 2016, AUM by investment objective on a worldwide basis was as follows:

Investment ObjectiveValue in BillionsPercentage of Total AUMEquityGrowth potential, income potential, value or various combinations thereof$303.741%HybridAsset allocation, balanced, flexible, alternative and income-mixed funds137.419%Fixed IncomeGlobal/international, U.S. tax-free and U.S. taxable286.139%Cash ManagementShort-term liquid assets6.11%Total$733.3100%

Broadly speaking, the change in the net assets of our SIPs depends primarily upon two factors: (1) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities held in the portfolio of investments; and (2) the level of sales as compared to the level of redemptions. We are subject to the risk of asset volatility resulting from changes in the global capital markets. In addition, changing market conditions and the evolving needs of our clients may cause a shift in our asset mix, potentially resulting in an increase or decrease in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on our AUM. Despite such market risks, we believe that we have a competitive advantage as a result of the diversity of our SIPs available to our clients.









Summary of Services

1.    Investment Management Services

We provide our investment management services pursuant to agreements in effect with each of our SIPs and the products for which we provide sub-advisory services. Our investment management services include services to managed accounts for which we have full investment discretion, and to advisory accounts for which we have no investment discretion. Advisory accounts for which we have no investment discretion may or may not include the authority to trade for the account. Our services include fundamental investment research and valuation analyses, including original economic, political, industry and company research, and analyses of suppliers, customers and competitors. Our company research utilizes such sources as company public records and other publicly available information, management interviews, company prepared information, and company visits and inspections. Research services provided by brokerage firms are also used to support our findings. Our management fee on an account varies with the types of services that we provide for the account, among other things.

Our subsidiaries that provide discretionary investment management services for our SIPs and sub-advised products either perform or obtain investment research and determine which securities the SIPs or sub-advised products will purchase, hold or sell under the supervision and oversight of the funds’ boards of directors or trustees, as applicable. In addition, these subsidiaries may take all appropriate steps to implement such decisions, including arranging for the selection of broker-dealers and the execution and settlement of trades in accordance with applicable criteria set forth in the management agreements for the SIPs, internal policies, and applicable law and practice. Our subsidiaries that provide non-discretionary investment management services perform investment research for our clients and make recommendations as to which securities the clients purchase, hold or sell, and may or may not perform trading activities for the products.

Through our subsidiaries, we compensate the personnel who serve as officers of our funds or of the funds’ management companies, in addition to the personnel necessary to conduct the funds’ day-to-day business operations. The funds themselves do not have direct employees. Our subsidiaries either provide or arrange for the provision of: office space, telephone, office equipment and supplies; trading desk facilities; authorization of expenditures and approval of bills for payment; preparation of registration statements, proxy statements and annual and semi-annual reports to fund shareholders, notices of dividends, capital gains distributions and tax credits, and other regulatory reports; the daily pricing of fund investment portfolios, including collecting quotations from pricing services; accounting services, including preparing and supervising publication of daily net asset value quotations, periodic earnings reports and other financial data; services to ensure compliance with securities regulations, including recordkeeping requirements; preparation and filing of tax reports; the maintenance of accounting systems and controls; and other administrative services. The funds generally pay their own expenses, such as external legal, custody and independent audit fees, regulatory registration fees, and other related expenses. The funds also share in board and shareholder meeting and reporting costs.

The board of directors or trustees and our management personnel for our U.S. Funds regularly review the investment management fee structures for the funds in light of fund performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors. Most of our investment management agreements between our subsidiaries and our U.S. Funds must be renewed each year (after an initial two-year term), and must be specifically approved at least annually by a vote of each fund’s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”), or by a vote of the holders of a majority of the fund’s outstanding voting securities. Our U.S. agreements automatically terminate in the event of their “assignment,” as defined in the Investment Company Act. In addition, either party may terminate such an agreement without penalty after prior written notice. If agreements representing a significant portion of our AUM were terminated, it would have a material adverse impact on us.

Under the majority of our investment management agreements globally, the funds pay us a monthly fee in arrears based upon the fund’s average daily net assets. Annual fee rates under our various agreements are often reduced as net assets exceed various threshold levels. Annual rates also vary by investment objective and type of services provided. Our agreements generally permit us to provide services to more than one fund and to other clients so long as our ability to render services to each of the funds is not impaired, and so long as purchases and sales of portfolio securities for various advised funds are made on an equitable basis.

We use a “master/feeder” fund structure in certain situations. This structure allows an investment adviser to manage a single portfolio of securities at the “master fund” level and have multiple “feeder funds” that invest substantially all of their respective assets into the master fund. Individual and institutional shareholders generally invest in the “feeder funds,” which









can offer a variety of service and distribution options. A management fee may be charged either at the master fund level or the feeder fund level depending on the specific requirements of the fund, although funds also involving performance fees or carried interest will typically charge these together with management fees at the master fund level. Administrative, shareholder servicing and custodian fees are often waived at the feeder fund level and only charged at the master fund level, although the feeder funds will indirectly bear their pro-rata share of the expenses of the master fund as an investor in the master fund. Fees and expenses specific to a feeder fund may be charged at the level of that feeder fund.

Our services also include management of our strategic beta and actively managed ETFs. ETFs trade like stocks, fluctuate in market value and may trade at prices above or below the ETF’s net asset value.

Our Non-U.S. Funds, unregistered funds, institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts, and the products for which we provide sub-advisory services are subject to various termination rights and review and renewal provisions. Investment management fees are generally waived or voluntarily reduced when a new fund or account is established and then increased to contractual levels within an established timeline or as net asset values reach certain levels.

2.    Alternative Strategies Investment Management

We offer and support alternative investment strategies, products and solutions through various subsidiaries as alternatives to our traditional equity and fixed income products and related management services for our clients. Our alternative investment products include, among other capabilities, hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate funds and commodities funds. Examples of some of these offerings are listed below.

K2, a fund of hedge funds solutions provider, offers and supports alternative investments and multi-asset solutions platforms for institutional and other qualified investors. K2 provides risk management, manager selection and asset allocation capabilities in various global jurisdictions. Products offered include discretionary and non-discretionary custom-tailored investment programs, commingled funds of hedge funds and hedge fund investment advisory services. By active allocation to selected third-party sub-advisers, K2 also provides access to multiple non-traditional and alternative strategies as an adviser to a number of U.S. and Non-U.S. Funds.

Darby is primarily engaged in sponsoring and managing funds that invest in private equity, private debt and infrastructure investment transactions in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Central/Eastern Europe. Darby offers these investment funds through private placements to institutional and high net-worth individual investors.

Templeton Asset Management Ltd. sponsors and manages a limited number of investment funds that also invest primarily in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Central/Eastern Europe.

Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC manages investment partnerships that invest in funds with exposure to global real estate opportunities.

Franklin Advisers, Inc. manages various privately offered funds with strategies that include the use of fixed income and other financial instruments as well as derivatives across the global interest rate, currency and credit markets.

3.    Institutional Investment Management

We provide a broad array of investment management services to institutional clients, which include corporations, endowments, charitable foundations, and pension and defined contribution plans. Our subsidiaries offer a wide range of equity, fixed income and alternative strategies through a variety of investment vehicles, including separate accounts, registered open-end and closed-end funds, and unregistered funds. We distribute and market globally our different capabilities under our brand names through various subsidiaries. In the U.S., we generally operate our institutional business under the trade name “Franklin Templeton Institutional.”

We primarily attract new institutional business through our relationships with pension, defined contribution and management consultants, direct sales efforts and additional mandates from our existing client relationships, as well as from our responses to requests for proposals. We also market and distribute our SIPs to institutional investors with separately-managed accounts through various subsidiaries. A few of our subsidiaries also serve as direct marketing broker-dealers for institutional investors for certain of our institutional investment funds and private funds.









4.    High Net-Worth Investment Management, Trust and Custody

Through our subsidiary Fiduciary Trust (including its trust company and investment adviser subsidiaries), we provide investment management and related services to, among others, high net-worth individuals and families, foundations and institutional clients. Similarly, through Fiduciary Trust Company of Canada (“FTCC”), we provide services and offer SIPs to high net-worth individuals and families and institutional clients in Canada. Fiduciary Trust offers investment management and advisory services across different investment styles and asset classes. The majority of Fiduciary Trust’s client assets are actively managed by individual portfolio managers, while a significant number of clients also seek multi-manager, multi-asset class solutions.

Through our various trust company subsidiaries, including Fiduciary Trust, we also provide trust, custody and related services, including administration, performance measurement, estate planning and tax planning. We provide planned giving administration and related custody services for non-profit organizations, including pooled income funds, charitable remainder trusts, charitable lead trusts and gift annuities, for which we may or may not act as trustee.

5.    Sales, Distribution and Marketing

A significant portion of our revenues are generated from providing sales and distribution services. Our registered open-end mutual funds and certain other products generally pay us distribution fees in return for sales, distribution and marketing efforts on their behalf. Fund shares are sold primarily through a large network of independent financial intermediaries, including broker-dealers, financial advisers, banks and other third parties. We pay substantially all of our sales and distribution fees to the financial intermediaries who sell our SIPs to the public on our behalf.

Our subsidiary Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. (“FTDI”) acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of shares of most of our open-end U.S. Funds. Certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries provide sales, distribution and marketing services to our Non-U.S. Funds distributed outside the U.S. Some of our Non-U.S. Funds, particularly the Luxembourg-domiciled Franklin Templeton Investment Funds Société d’Investissement à Capital Variable (“SICAV”), are distributed globally on a cross-border basis, while others are distributed exclusively in local markets. We earn sales and distribution fees primarily by distributing our funds pursuant to distribution agreements between FTDI or our non-U.S. subsidiaries and the funds. Under each distribution agreement, we offer and sell the fund’s shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs associated with selling, distributing and marketing the fund’s shares, including the costs of developing and producing sales literature, shareholder reports and prospectuses.

Our U.S. retirement business is conducted through divisions of FTDI that work closely with sponsors, consultants, record keepers and financial advisers of defined contribution plans, including 401(k) plans, variable annuity products and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”). We offer our capabilities to the U.S. retirement industry through a number of investment options, including sub-advised portfolios, funds, education savings plans and variable insurance funds.

In the U.S., most of our retail funds are distributed with a multi-class share structure. We adopted this share structure to provide investors with more sales charge alternatives for their investments. Class A shares are sold with a front-end sales charge to investors, except for when certain investment criteria are met. Class C shares have no front-end sales charges, although our distribution subsidiaries pay an up-front commission to financial intermediaries on these sales. Class C shares have a contingent deferred sales charge for redemptions within 12 months from the date of purchase. Although Class C shares are generally more costly to us in the year of sale, they allow us to be more competitive by providing a fixed percentage annual charge option. Class R and Class R6 shares, available in the U.S. as retirement share classes, also have no front-end sales charges. Class R shares are available to certain retirement and health savings plan accounts, and Class R6 shares are available to employer sponsored retirement plans where plan level or omnibus accounts are held on the books of our transfer agent. We no longer offer Class B shares to clients in the U.S.

In the U.S., we also offer Advisor Class shares in many of our Franklin and Templeton funds, and we offer Class Z shares in the Franklin Mutual Series funds, both of which have no sales charges. Advisor and Class Z shares are offered to certain qualified financial intermediaries, institutions and high net-worth clients (both affiliated and unaffiliated) who have assets held in accounts managed by a subsidiary of Franklin and are also available to our full-time employees, current and former officers, trustees and directors, and certain of their family members. We also offer money market funds to investors in the U.S. without a sales charge. Under the terms and conditions described in the prospectuses or the statements of additional information for some funds, certain investors can purchase shares at net asset value or at reduced sales charges. Our insurance









product funds sold in the U.S. offer a multi-class share structure, and are offered at net asset value without a sales charge directly to insurance company separate accounts, certain qualified plans and other investment funds (funds of funds).

Outside the U.S., we offer share classes similar to the Advisor Class shares to certain types of investors, although depending upon the fund and the country in which the fund is domiciled, the equivalent share class may be offered on a more restrictive or less restrictive basis than the similar U.S. Advisor Class shares. We also offer additional types of share classes and unit series outside the U.S. in response to local demand based on the needs of investors in particular markets, subject to applicable regulations which may change over time. In the majority of cases, investors in any class of shares may exchange their shares for a like class of shares in another one of our funds, subject to certain fees that may apply. Our Non-U.S. Funds have sales charges and fee structures that vary by region.

The distribution agreements with our open-end U.S. Funds generally provide for FTDI to pay commission expenses for sales of our fund shares to qualifying broker-dealers and other independent financial intermediaries. These financial intermediaries receive various sales commissions and other fees from FTDI for services in matching investors with funds whose investment objectives match such investors’ goals and risk profiles. Such intermediaries may also receive fees for their assistance in explaining the operations of the funds and in servicing and maintaining investors’ accounts, and for reporting and various other distribution services. We are heavily dependent upon these third-party distribution and sales channels and business relationships. FTDI may also make payments to certain broker-dealers who provide marketing support services, as described further below. There is increasing competition for access to these channels, which has caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future as competition continues and service expectations increase. As ofSeptember 30, 2016, approximately 1,300 local, regional and national banks, securities firms and financial adviser firms offered shares of our open-end U.S. Funds for sale to the U.S. investing public, and approximately 2,900 banks, securities firms and financial adviser firms offered shares of our cross-border Non-U.S. Funds for sale outside of the U.S.

Most of our open-end U.S. Funds, with the exception of certain money market funds, have adopted distribution plans under Rule 12b-1 (the “Rule 12b-1 Plans”) promulgated under the Investment Company Act (“Rule 12b-1”). Under the Rule 12b-1 Plans, the funds pay FTDI for marketing, marketing support, advertising, printing and sales promotion services relating to the distribution of their shares, subject to the Rule 12b-1 Plans’ limitations based on average daily net AUM. In 2010, the SEC proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds.

The Rule 12b-1 Plans are established for one-year terms and must be approved annually by a vote of each fund’s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act. All of these Rule 12b-1 Plans are subject to termination at any time by a majority vote of the disinterested fund directors or trustees or by the particular fund shareholders. Fees from the Rule 12b-1 Plans that FTDI receives as revenues are paid primarily to third-party broker-dealers who sell our funds to the public on our behalf. Similar arrangements exist with the distribution of our Non-U.S. Funds where, generally, our subsidiary that distributes the funds receives maintenance fees from the funds and pays commissions and certain other fees to banks and other intermediaries.

FTDI and/or its affiliates may make the following additional payments to broker-dealers that sell shares of our funds:

Marketing support payments.









Transaction support and other payments.FTDI may pay ticket charges per purchase or exchange order placed by a broker-dealer or one-time payments for ancillary services, such as setting up funds on a broker-dealer’s fund trading system. From time to time, FTDI, at its expense, may make additional payments to broker-dealers that sell or arrange for the sale of shares of our U.S. Funds. FTDI routinely sponsors due diligence meetings for registered representatives during which they receive updates on various funds and are afforded the opportunity to speak with portfolio managers. Invitation to these meetings is not conditioned on selling a specific number of shares. Those who have shown an interest in our funds, however, are more likely to be considered. To the extent permitted by their firm’s policies and procedures, registered representatives’ expenses in attending these meetings may be covered by FTDI. Similar payments may be made by our non-U.S. subsidiaries that distribute our Non-U.S. Funds to third-party distributors of such funds.

Other compensation may be offered to the extent not prohibited by federal or state laws or any self-regulatory agency, such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). FTDI makes payments for events it deems appropriate, subject to FTDI’s guidelines and applicable law.

6.    Shareholder Servicing

We receive shareholder servicing fees as compensation for providing transfer agency services, which include providing customer statements, transaction processing, customer service and tax reporting. Our subsidiary Franklin Templeton Investor Services, LLC (“FTIS”) serves as shareholder servicing and dividend-paying agent for our open-end U.S. Funds. FTIS is registered with the SEC as a transfer agent under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). FTIS is compensated pursuant to transfer agency service agreements with the funds. These fees are generally fixed annual charges per shareholder account that vary with the particular type of fund and the services being rendered. FTIS also is reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses. Other non-U.S. subsidiaries provide similar services to our Non-U.S. Funds, and may be compensated based on a combination of similar per account fees and fees based on the level of AUM in the accounts that we serve.

FTIS may also pay servicing fees to third-party intermediaries primarily to help offset costs associated with client account maintenance support, statement preparation and transaction processing. Such third parties: (i) maintain omnibus accounts with the fund in the institution’s name on behalf of numerous beneficial owners of fund shares; or (ii) provide support for fund shareholder accounts by sharing account data with FTIS through the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation systems. The funds reimburse FTIS for these third-party payments.

Summary of SIPs

1.    Investment Objectives Overview

Our SIPs are offered globally to retail, institutional and high net-worth clients, which include individual investors, qualified groups, trustees, tax-deferred plans (such as IRAs in the U.S. and retirement saving plans, or RSPs, in Canada) or money purchase plans, employee benefit and profit sharing plans, trust companies, bank trust departments and institutional investors. Our SIPs include portfolios managed for some of the world’s largest corporations, endowments, charitable foundations and pension funds, as well as wealthy individuals and other institutions. We use various investment techniques to focus on specific client objectives for these specialized portfolios.

The SIPs that we offer accommodate a variety of investment goals, spanning the spectrum of our clients’ risk tolerance - from capital appreciation (with our more growth-oriented products) to capital preservation (with our fixed income offerings). In seeking to achieve such objectives, each portfolio emphasizes different strategies and invests in different types of instruments.

Our equity investment products include some that are considered value-oriented, others that are considered growth-oriented, and some that use a combination of growth and value characteristics, generally identified as blend or core products. Value investing focuses on identifying companies that our research analysts and portfolio managers believe are undervalued based on a number of different factors, usually put in the context of historical ratios such as price-to-earnings or price-to-book value; however, we also consider the future earnings potential of each individual company on a multi-year basis. Growth investing focuses on identifying companies that our research analysts and portfolio managers believe have sustainable growth characteristics, meeting our criteria for sustainable growth potential, quality and valuation. In this effort, the key variables we examine include: market opportunity (overall size and growth); competitive positioning of the company; assessment of management (strength, breadth, depth, and integrity) and execution of plans; and the general financial strength and profitability of the enterprise, to determine whether the growth and quality aspects are properly reflected in the current share price. Paramount









to all of our different equity products is the incorporation of independent, fundamental research through our own collaborative in-house group of investment professionals. Our approach across the variety of equity products we manage emphasizes bottom-up stock selection within a disciplined portfolio construction process, and is complemented by our ongoing assessment of risk at both the security and portfolio levels.

Portfolios seeking income generally focus on one or more of the following securities: taxable and tax-exempt money market instruments; tax-exempt municipal bonds; global or regional fixed income securities; and fixed income debt securities of corporations, of the U.S. government and its sponsored agencies and instrumentalities (such as the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) or of the various states in the U.S. Others focus on investments in particular countries and regions.

2.    Types of SIPs

As ofSeptember 30, 2016, our total AUM was$733.3 billionand the types of SIPs we offered were as follows:

•U.S. Funds- Our U.S. Funds (including open-end and closed-end funds and our insurance products trust) accounted for$419.1 billionof AUM. Our five largest U.S. Funds and their AUM were: FCF-Franklin Income Fund ($79.7 billion), TIT-Templeton Global Bond Fund ($42.1 billion), FMSF-Franklin Mutual Global Discovery Fund ($22.0 billion), FMT-Franklin Rising Dividends Fund ($17.6 billion) and Franklin California Tax-Free Fixed Income Fund ($15.2 billion). These five funds represented, in the aggregate, 24% of total AUM.

•Cross-Border Funds- Our cross-border products, which are comprised of a variety of investment funds principally domiciled in Luxembourg and registered for sale to non-U.S. investors in 39 countries, accounted for$107.2 billionof AUM. Our five largest cross-border funds and their AUM were: FTIF-Templeton Global Bond Fund ($20.1 billion), FTIF-Templeton Global Total Return Fund ($19.5 billion), FTIF-Templeton Growth (Euro) Fund ($7.7 billion), FTIF-Templeton Asian Growth Fund ($4.8 billion) and FTIF-Templeton Emerging Markets Bond Fund ($4.0 billion). These five funds represented, in the aggregate, 8% of total AUM.

•Local/Regional Funds- In addition to our cross-border products, in some countries we offer products for the particular local market. These local/regional funds accounted for$41.8 billionof AUM.

•Other Managed Accounts, Alternative Investment Products and Trusts- Our managed accounts, alternative investment products and trusts accounted for$165.2 billionof AUM, of which $10.3 billion were K2 investment products and funds, and $6.4 billion included Darby products and real estate, emerging markets and certain global fixed income investment funds.









3.    AUM by Investment Objective and Types of SIPs

The following table shows our AUM by investment objective and types of SIPs as ofSeptember 30, 2016:

(in billions)INVESTMENT OBJECTIVEU.S.FundsCross-BorderFundsLocal/RegionalFundsOther Managed Accounts,Alternative InvestmentProducts and TrustsTotalEquityAsia-Pacific$0.8$10.7$6.4$19.2$37.1Canada——4.05.29.2Europe, the Middle East and Africa2.54.25.70.312.7U.S.89.18.31.74.2103.3Emerging markets13.34.32.94.114.6Global/international262.312.34.248.0126.8Total equity158.039.824.981.0303.7HybridAsia-Pacific——0.44.04.4Canada——0.70.91.6Europe, the Middle East and Africa—2.2—0.42.6U.S.94.42.40.122.1119.0Global/international23.33.61.41.59.8Total hybrid97.78.22.628.9137.4Fixed IncomeAsia-Pacific—0.84.90.66.3Canada——2.92.25.1Europe, the Middle East and Africa—1.9—1.13.0U.S. tax-free71.8—0.24.576.5U.S. taxable34.09.82.47.253.4Emerging markets11.15.40.110.917.5Global/international251.640.83.128.8124.3Total fixed income158.558.713.655.3286.1Cash Management4.90.50.7—6.1Total$419.1$107.2$41.8$165.2$733.3

__________________

1Emerging markets include developing countries worldwide.

2Global/international includes entities doing business either worldwide or only outside of the U.S.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Certain financial information about the Company’s business segment and geographic areas is contained in Note 14 – Segment and Geographic Information in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.



REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS

We are subject to extensive regulation. Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to various federal, state, and international regulation and supervision that continue to change and evolve over time. Consequently, there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environments in which we operate.









U.S. Regulation

We are subject to federal and state laws that include U.S. federal securities laws, state securities and corporate laws, and the rules and regulations promulgated by certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations such as the SEC and the NYSE. As a U.S. reporting company, we are subject to various securities, compliance, corporate governance and disclosure rules adopted by the SEC. We are also subject to various other federal and state laws, including those affecting corporate governance and disclosure, such as the U.S Securities Act of 1933, the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), and the USA Patriot Act of 2001. As a NYSE-listed company, we are also subject to the NYSE listing standards.

As a global investment management organization, certain of our subsidiaries are also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, FINRA, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), the National Futures Association, the U.S. Department of Treasury and the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”), and to various securities, compliance, corporate governance, disclosure, privacy, anti-money laundering, anti-terrorist financing, and economic, trade and sanctions laws and regulations, both domestically and internationally. Given our global operations, we are also subject to securities laws and other laws of various non-U.S. jurisdictions and to regulation by non-U.S. regulators. In some cases, our non-U.S. operations may also be subject to regulation by U.S. regulators, such as the Department of Justice, the CFTC and the SEC (for example with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977). We are also subject not only to the sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, but also to sanctions programs adopted and administered by non-U.S. jurisdictions where our investment management services and products are offered. Further, we are also subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions regarding the reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property.

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act, the CFTC and/or licensed by various non-U.S. regulators. In addition, many of our funds are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act or other non-U.S. laws. These registrations, licenses and authorizations impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on such subsidiaries and such funds. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on our registered investment adviser subsidiaries, including record keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations on the registered investment companies advised by our subsidiaries. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration. Our subsidiaries must also comply with complex tax regimes.

FINRA Conduct Rules limit the amount of aggregate sales charges that may be paid in connection with the purchase and holding of investment company shares sold through broker-dealers. The effect of the rule is to limit the amount of fees that could be paid pursuant to a fund’s Rule 12b-1 Plan to FTDI, our principal sales and distribution subsidiary in the U.S., which earns distribution fees on the distribution of fund shares in the U.S. In 2010, the SEC proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds.

In April 2016, the DOL issued a new fiduciary rule that will subject financial professionals who provide investment advice to certain U.S. retirement clients to a new fiduciary duty intended to address conflicts of interests. We believe that the rule could significantly impact the ability of financial professionals to provide investment advice and recommendations for retirement accounts about funds for which they receive a fee from the fund or its affiliates. This rule may impact the compensation paid to the financial intermediaries who sell our funds to their retirement clients and may negatively impact our business. Implementation of the rule will be phased in beginning in April 2017, and will generally become fully effective in January 2018.

The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the establishment of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), the mandate of which is to identify and respond to threats to U.S. financial stability. Similarly, the U.S. and other members of the G-20 group of nations have empowered the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) to identify and respond, in a coordinated manner, to threats to global financial stability. The FSOC may designate certain non-bank financial companies as systemically important financial institutions (“SIFIs”), which are subject to supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The FSB may designate certain non-bank financial companies as global systemically important financial institutions (“G-SIFIs”); the additional regulatory requirements triggered by any such designation are not yet established. The FSOC and the FSB, as well as other global regulators, are considering what threats to U.S. and global financial stability, if any, arise from asset management companies and/or the funds that they manage, and whether such threats can be mitigated by treating such entities as SIFIs or G-SIFIs and/or subjecting them to additional regulation. To the extent that we or any of









our funds are designated as a SIFI or G-SIFI, such regulation, which could include requirements related to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, resolution plans, early remediation, and certain risk management requirements, could impact our business.

The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose other restrictions and limitations on us, resulting in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. We continue to analyze the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act as further implementing rules are adopted and become effective. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes a number of new regulations governing derivative transactions, certain categories of swaps are currently required, and further categories of swaps are likely to be required, to be submitted for clearing by a regulated clearing organization and reported on a swap execution facility, and the posting of collateral will be required for uncleared swaps. These and other requirements are likely to impact how we manage our investment strategies because of, among other things, an increase in the costs and expenses of utilizing swaps and other derivatives. In addition to the rulemaking mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, rules adopted by the CFTC have



removed or limited previously available exemptions and exclusions from registration and regulation as a commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor on which we had relied, resulting in the imposition of either additional registration, disclosure, reporting and recordkeeping requirements or more stringent requirements to comply with the remaining exemptions or exclusions for operators of certain of our registered investment funds and other pooled vehicles that use or trade in futures, swaps and other derivatives considered commodity interests and subject to regulation by the CFTC. In addition, the SEC has adopted rules that have changed the structure and operation for certain types of money market funds, and has also proposed other rules that (i) would require certain U.S. Funds to adopt liquidity management programs, and (ii) would impose restrictions on the use of derivatives by registered funds. We expect that the complex regulatory requirements and developments applicable to us will cause us to incur additional administrative and compliance costs.

Non-U.S. Regulation

Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to the laws and regulations of various non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. regulatory agencies and bodies. As we continue to expand our international presence, a number of our subsidiaries and international operations have become subject to regulatory systems, in various jurisdictions, comparable to those covering our operations in the U.S. Regulators in these non-U.S. jurisdictions may have broad authority with respect to the regulation of financial services including, among other things, the authority to grant or cancel required licenses or registrations. In addition, these regulators may subject certain of our subsidiaries to net capital and other financial or operational requirements.

In the U.K., the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”) and the Prudential Regulation Authorities (the “PRA”) currently regulate certain of our subsidiaries. Authorization by the FCA and the PRA is required to conduct any financial services related business in the U.K. pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The FCA’s and PRA’s rules under that act govern a firm’s capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients, and systems and controls. Breaches of these rules could result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries.

In Luxembourg, the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (“CSSF”) currently regulates our substantial activities in Luxembourg, including our subsidiary Franklin Templeton International Services S.à r.l. (“FTIS Lux”). FTIS Lux is licensed as a management company for both the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directive (“UCITS”) and alternative investment funds (“AIFs”) and, as such, it manages our Luxembourg-domiciled UCITS and our European Union (“EU”)-domiciled AIFs. The CSSF’s rules include capital resource, governance and risk management requirements, conduct of business rules and oversight of systems and controls. Breaches of these rules could result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against FTIS Lux.

In addition to the above, our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and certain other European subsidiaries and branches, must comply with the pan-European regime established by the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”), which regulates the provision of investment services and conduct of investment activities throughout the European Economic Area (“EEA”). MiFID sets out detailed requirements governing the organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity markets and extensive transaction reporting requirements. The U.K. has adopted the MiFID rules into national legislation via the FCA rules, as have those other EU member states in which we have a presence.

A review of MiFID by the European Commission (the “Commission”) has led to the creation of a replacement directive and a new regulation (together “MiFID II”) to become effective in January 2018 and which extends the scope of the original MiFID in response to issues raised by the financial crisis. Changes will be made to pre- and post-trade reporting obligations









and there will be an expansion of the types of instruments subject to these requirements, such as bonds, structured products and derivatives. A new concept of trading venue has been created and algorithmic trading will be subject to specific regulations. There will also be changes to conduct of business requirements, including selling practices, intermediary inducements and client categorization, as well as the provision of investment advice and management within the EU by non-EU advisers, including ours. Powers will also be given to EU national regulators to ban certain products and services and to the European Securities and Markets Authority to temporarily restrict certain financial activities within the EU.

One of the most significant developments in MiFID II is the ban on commission and other payments (“inducements”) to independent advisers and discretionary managers, which will result in a major change in the commercial relationships between fund providers and distributors. Arrangements with non-independent advisers will also be affected as narrower rules around the requirement that any commission reflects an enhancement of the service to customers come into effect, along with a prescriptive list of permissible non-monetary benefits. The final interpretation of the inducements rules could also result in major changes to how fund managers pay for investment research, though this is subject to further consultation and interpretation at the level of national authorities. This could result in a reduction in the range and quality of available research, increased costs for fund managers, and a need for revised commercial terms with both brokers and clients to reflect these changes.

During 2016, rules implementing the central clearing obligation in relation to specified derivatives under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation came into effect for the very largest trading counterparties, with the clearing obligation for other large derivatives users (including some of our clients) coming into force in December 2016. A proposal is under consultation to delay later phases of implementation, for the smallest counterparties, for a further two years. Importantly, significant progress was made in achieving mutual recognition of central counterparties between the U.S. and EU regulatory authorities. In addition, rules relating to margin requirements for uncleared over-the-counter derivatives will shortly be finalized, expected to take effect from January or February 2017 for the largest trading counterparties and from March 2017 for all other counterparties, including our clients. Given the international scale of our trading activity, if regulatory coordination is not successful, the various regulatory regimes to which we are subject could potentially result in duplication of administration and increased transaction costs, but the U.S./EU accord will cover the majority of our relevant trading for central clearing purposes.

The EU’s Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (“AIFMD”) came into effect in July 2014 and most EU member states have implemented its provisions on a national level. AIFMD regulates managers of, and service providers to, AIFs that are domiciled and offered in the EU and that are not authorized as retail funds under UCITS. The AIFMD also regulates the marketing within the EU of all AIFs, including those domiciled outside the EU. In general, AIFMD has a staged implementation up to 2018. Compliance with the AIFMD’s requirements may restrict AIF marketing and imposes compliance obligations in the form of remuneration policies, capital requirements, reporting requirements, leverage oversight, valuation, stakes in EU companies, the domicile, duties and liability of custodians and liquidity management.

The EU’s Market Abuse Regulation (“MAR”) came into effect in July 2016 with a primary aim to increase market integrity and investor protection, enhancing the attractiveness of securities markets for raising capital. Under MAR, EU market abuse rules will become extra-territorial as long as the instrument has a listing on an EEA regulated market.

The most recent iteration of the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directive (“UCITS V”) became effective in March 2016. The main objectives of UCITS V are to expand the responsibilities and potential liabilities of depositaries, to regulate remuneration policies, and to harmonize the sanctions available to regulatory authorities.

Proposals on packaged retail investment and insurance products (“PRIIPs”) are to be implemented through the strengthening of MiFID standards for non-insurance PRIIPs, revisions to the Insurance Mediation Directive’s selling standard for all insurance-based PRIIPs and new investor disclosure requirements for all PRIIPs through the PRIIPs Key Information Document (“KID”) regulation, which was approved by the European Parliament in April 2014. It requires PRIIP manufacturers to draw up a KID which can be no longer than three pages in length and must be written in simple language. The regulation allows UCITS providers, who are already required to produce the UCITS Key Investor Information Document, a transitional period of five years from enactment during which they will be exempt from its terms. In September 2016, the European Parliament rejected the Commission’s proposal for key Level 2 Regulatory Technical Standards governing the detailed implementation of PRIIPs, which may result in a delay to the PRIIPs effective date scheduled for December 2016.

In addition, the Commission’s proposal for a financial transaction tax (“FTT”) in the EU, which would, if approved by all EU member states, apply to all financial transactions where at least one party is established in an EU member state and either that party or another party to the transaction is a financial institution was a controversial topic for all the EU member









states to agree upon and after discussions failed to establish unanimous support. Subsequently the Commission has put forward a revised proposal to implement the tax in the eleven EU member states which wished to participate. While the specific terms of the revised FTT proposal remain subject to negotiation, any tax on securities transactions could likely have a negative impact on the liquidity of the derivatives and securities markets in Europe and could adversely impact our European clients’ assets and our non-European clients to the extent that they are or want to be invested in European assets.

Further, pursuant to ongoing efforts to encourage global tax compliance, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has adopted a global common reporting standard for the automatic exchange of financial information among participating countries (“CRS”), aimed at ensuring that persons with financial assets located outside of their tax residence country pay required taxes. In many cases, intergovernmental agreements between the participating countries will govern implementation of the new rules. CRS will be implemented over a multi-year period and we will continue to monitor the implementing regulations and corresponding intergovernmental agreements to determine our requirements. CRS may subject us to additional reporting, compliance and administrative costs and burdens in jurisdictions where we operate as a qualifying financial institution.

In June 2016, a narrow majority of voters in a U.K. referendum voted to exit the EU (“Brexit”), but it is still unclear exactly what will be the U.K.’s status in relation to the EU when it ultimately leaves (and the negotiation process does not begin until the U.K. formally notifies the EU of its intent pursuant to Article 50 of the EU treaty, which has not yet occurred). While these are unprecedented times for the U.K., and we are monitoring the consequences very closely for our clients from an investment perspective, we believe that Brexit will not have a major impact on the way our firm operates in the U.K. Our long-standing U.K. businesses are expected to continue to provide their services to U.K. customers. Furthermore, we have other regulated subsidiaries across continental Europe such that, in the event of a future restriction on cross-border trade in financial products and services between the U.K. and the new EU, it would be likely to have a limited effect on our business. Moreover, our cross-border SICAV investment fund range, which is the mostly widely-distributed such range in the world, is based in Luxembourg. We have a separate, U.K.-domiciled fund range that is, and will continue to be, distributed only in the U.K.

In Canada, our subsidiaries are subject to provincial and territorial laws and are registered with and regulated by provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities. The mandate of Canadian securities regulatory authorities is generally to protect investors and to foster fair and efficient capital markets. Securities regulatory authorities impose certain requirements on registrants, including a standard of conduct, capital and insurance, record keeping, regulatory financial reporting, conflict of interest management, compliance systems and security holder reporting. Failure to comply with applicable securities laws, regulations and rules could result in, among other things, reprimands, suspension of or restrictions on an individual’s or firm’s registration, prohibitions from becoming or acting as a registrant, administrative penalties or disgorgement. In addition, as a federally licensed trust company, FTCC is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada and another subsidiary, FTC Investor Services Inc., is a member of and regulated by the Mutual Fund Dealers Association of Canada. These regulatory bodies have similar requirements to those of the securities regulatory authorities with a view to ensuring the capital adequacy and sound business practices of the subsidiaries and the appropriate treatment of their clients.

In March 2013, the Canadian Securities Administrators, the umbrella organization of provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities, released final amendments to its rules regarding registrant obligations that require additional disclosure by registrants to their clients, including enhanced disclosure at account opening of all operating charges and fees a client may be required to pay, pre-trade disclosure of any charges a client may be required to pay, enhanced reporting on client statements that includes charges paid by the client and all compensation received by registrants in respect of a client’s account and new reporting regarding the performance of investments held in the account. These new rules, which were phased in over a three-year period, have required us to make changes to our systems to comply with these new disclosure and reporting standards.

In Singapore, our subsidiaries are subject to, among others, the Securities and Futures Act (“SFA”), the Financial Advisers Act (“FAA”) and the subsidiary legislation promulgated pursuant to these Acts, which are administered by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”). Our asset management subsidiary and its employees conducting regulated activities specified in the SFA and/or the FAA are required to be licensed with the MAS. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, codes, directives, notices and guidelines issued by the MAS may result in penalties including fines, censures and the suspension or revocation of licenses granted by the MAS.

In Australia, our subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws and are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (“ASIC”). ASIC regulates companies, financial markets and financial services in









Australia. ASIC imposes certain conditions on licensed financial services organizations that apply to our subsidiaries, including requirements relating to capital resources, operational capability and controls. Failure to comply with applicable law, regulations or conditions could result in various sanctions being imposed including cancellation, suspension or variation of the licenses held by our Australian subsidiaries.

In Hong Kong, our subsidiary is subject to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (the “SFO”) and its subsidiary legislation, which governs the securities and futures markets and regulates, among others, offers of investments to the public and provides for the licensing of dealing in securities and asset management activities and intermediaries. This legislation is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (the “SFC”). The SFC is also empowered under the SFO to establish standards for compliance as well as codes and guidelines. Our subsidiary and its employees conducting any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are required to be licensed with the SFC, and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC from time to time. Failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes and guidelines could result in various sanctions being imposed, including fines, reprimands and the suspension or revocation of the licenses granted by the SFC.

In India, certain of our subsidiaries are primarily subject to relevant regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”). The Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”), the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (“FIPB”) are the other major regulatory authorities that are capable of issuing directions of a binding nature to our subsidiaries. A failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes, notices, directives, guidelines, orders, circulars and schemes issued by SEBI, RBI, MCA or FIPB may result in penalties including fines, censures and/or suspension or revocation of licenses, approvals or registration status.

In Japan, our subsidiaries are subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (the “FIEL”) and the Act on Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency (the “JFSA”), which establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEL.

There are similar legal and regulatory arrangements in effect in many other non-U.S. jurisdictions where our subsidiaries, branches and representative offices, as well as certain joint ventures or companies in which we own minority stakes, are authorized to conduct business. We are also subject to regulation and supervision by, among others, the Securities Commission of The Bahamas; the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários in Brazil; the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority; the China Securities Regulatory Commission in the People’s Republic of China; the Autorité des Marchés Financiers in France; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority in Germany; the Central Bank of Ireland; the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa in Italy; the Financial Services Commission and the Financial Supervisory Service in South Korea; the Securities Commission in Malaysia; the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores in Mexico; the Autoriteit Financiële Markten in the Netherlands; the Polish Securities and Exchange Commission; the Romanian Financial Services Authority; the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores in Spain; the Finansinspektionen in Sweden; the Swiss Federal Banking Commission; the Financial Supervisory Commission in the Republic of China; the Dubai Financial Services Authority in the United Arab Emirates; and the State Securities Commission of Vietnam.



COMPETITION

The financial services industry is a highly competitive global industry. According to data sourced from the Investment Company Institute as of June 30, 2016, there were approximately 11,200 registered open-end funds whose shares were offered to the public in the U.S. and approximately 107,900 registered open-end funds whose shares were offered to the public outside the U.S., in each case including mutual funds, ETFs and funds of funds.

We face strong competition from numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions, which offer a wide range of financial and investment management services to the same institutional accounts, separate accounts, retail investors and high net-worth clients that we are seeking to attract. Competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged.

Due to our international presence and varied product mix, it is difficult to assess our market position relative to other investment managers on a worldwide basis, but we believe that we are one of the more widely diversified asset managers based in the U.S. We believe that our equity and fixed income asset mix coupled with our global presence will serve our competitive needs well over the long term. We continue to focus on the long-term performance of our investment products,









service to clients and extensive marketing activities through our strong broker-dealer and other financial institution distribution network as well as with high net-worth and institutional clients. We believe that performance, diversity of products and customer service, along with fees and costs, are the primary drivers of competition in the financial services industry.

The periodic establishment of new investment management firms and investment products increases the competition that we face. Many of our competitors have long-standing and established relationships with broker-dealers, investment advisers and their clients. Others have focused on, offer and market specific product lines, which provide strong competition to certain of our asset classes. In addition, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors, some with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own.

We rely largely on third-party broker-dealers and other similar independent financial intermediaries to distribute and sell our fund shares. We have pursued and continue to pursue sales relationships with all types of financial intermediaries to broaden our distribution network. We have experienced increased costs related to maintaining our distribution channels and we anticipate that this trend will continue. A failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major intermediaries who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. Additionally, competing broker-dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our SIPs may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could further limit the distribution of our investment products. Any inability to access and successfully sell our SIPs to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of AUM, related revenues and overall business and financial condition.

We maintain a technology platform to compete with the rapidly developing and evolving marketplace. However, technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced platforms for their products, which could affect our business.

We believe that we are well positioned to deal with changes in marketing trends as a result of our advertising activities and broad based marketplace recognition. In conjunction with our subsidiaries, we conduct advertising and promotional campaigns through various media sources to promote brand recognition, and advertise in major financial publications, as well as on television and the Internet, to promote brand name recognition and to assist our distribution network. Such activities include purchasing network and cable programming, sponsorship of sporting events, newspaper and magazine advertising, online and paid search advertising and social media marketing.



INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We have used, registered, and/or applied to register certain trademarks, service marks and trade names to distinguish our sponsored investment products and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and in other countries and jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, Franklin®, Templeton®, Franklin Mutual Series®, Franklin Bissett®, Fiduciary Trust™, Darby®, Balanced Equity Management®, K2®and LibertyShares™. Our trademarks, service marks and trade names are important to us and, accordingly, we enforce our trademark, service mark and trade name rights. The Franklin Templeton Investments®brand has been, and continues to be, extremely well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. If our brand is harmed, our future business prospects may be adversely affected.



EMPLOYEES

As ofSeptember 30, 2016, we employed approximately9,100employees and operated offices in 35 countries. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Franklin files reports with the SEC, including current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information filed with or furnished to the SEC from time to time. The public may read and copy any of these filings at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Franklin, that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. Additional information about the Company’s filings can also be obtained at our website at www.franklinresources.com under “Investor Relations.” We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports









on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

Corporate Governance Guidelines.The Company has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.

Committee Charters.The Company’s Board of Directors has an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Directors has adopted written charters for each such committee, which are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.



