Item 1.Business.

GENERAL

Franklin Resources, Inc. (“Franklin”) is a holding company that, together with its various subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”), is referred to as Franklin Templeton Investments®, a global investment management organization offering investment choices under the Franklin®, Templeton®, Mutual Series®, Bissett®, Fiduciary™ and Darby®brand names. Franklin is regulated as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”), and has elected to be a
financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLB Act”). The common stock of Franklin is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker symbol “BEN”, and is included in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. In this report, words such as “we”, “us”, “our” and similar terms refer to the Company. When used in this report, unless the context otherwise makes clear, our
“funds” means all of the Franklin, Templeton, Mutual Series and Bissett mutual funds.

In our primary business and
operating segment, investment management and related services, we provide services to investment funds in jurisdictions worldwide, which include U.S.- and non-U.S.-registered open-end and closed-end funds (“U.S. Funds” and “Non-U.S.
Funds”), unregistered funds, and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts (collectively, our “sponsored investment products”). As of September 30, 2010, we had $644.9 billion in assets under management with
approximately 21.1 million billable shareholder accounts worldwide. Our investment management and related services include fund administration, shareholder services, transfer agency, underwriting, distribution, custodial, trustee and other
fiduciary services. Our sponsored investment products include a broad range of equity, hybrid, fixed-income and cash management funds and accounts. We also manage certain sub-advised investment products which may be sold to the public under one of
our brand names or that of others.









The investment funds
that we manage have various investment objectives designed to meet the needs and goals of different investors. Most of the investment funds we manage are open-end mutual funds that continuously offer their shares to investors. We also offer
closed-end funds that issue a set number of shares to investors in a public offering and the shares are then traded on a public stock exchange. The funds themselves do not have direct employees. To support their operations, the funds contract with
separate entities, including our subsidiaries, to provide investment management, administrative, custody, transfer agency, operational and other services required by the funds. An investment advisory entity manages a fund’s portfolio of
securities in accordance with the fund’s stated objectives. Investors may purchase shares of an open-end fund through a broker/dealer, bank or other intermediary which may provide investment advice to the investor, while investors may purchase
shares of a closed-end fund on the stock exchange where the fund is traded. An open-end fund will typically pay fees to distributors that market and distribute the fund’s shares to broker/dealers who sell the shares directly to investors.
Broker/dealers and other intermediaries may earn commissions and receive other compensation with respect to the shares sold to investors.

In our secondary business and operating segment, banking/finance, we provide clients with select retail banking, private banking and consumer lending services through our bank subsidiaries.

Although the financial markets improved during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 (“fiscal year 2010”), the business
and regulatory environments in which we operate remain uncertain and subject to change. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Reform Act”), which
is expected to impose additional restrictions and limitations on our business. We will continue to review and evaluate the Reform Act and the extent of its impact on our business as the various rules and regulations required for implementation are
adopted.

We continue to focus on the investment performance of our sponsored investment products and on providing high
quality customer service to our clients. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the factors discussed below in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report, and other factors as discussed herein.

COMPANY HISTORY AND ACQUISITIONS

The Company and its predecessors have been engaged in the investment management and related services business since 1947. Franklin was incorporated in Delaware in November 1969. We originated our mutual
fund business with the Franklin family of funds, which is now known as the Franklin Funds. We expanded our business, in part, by acquiring companies engaged in the investment management and/or related services business.

In October 1992, we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the investment management and related services business
of Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. This acquisition added the Templeton family of funds to our organization. The Templeton funds are known for their global investment strategies and value style of investing.

In November 1996, we acquired certain assets and liabilities of Heine Securities Corporation, which provided investment management
services to various accounts and investment companies, including Mutual Series Fund Inc., now known as Franklin Mutual Series Fund Inc. (“Mutual Series”). Mutual Series is known for its value-oriented equity funds.

We expanded our business in Korea in July 2000 when we purchased all of the remaining outstanding shares of a Korean asset management
company, Ssangyong Templeton Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd. (currently known as Franklin Templeton Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd.), in which we







previously held a partial interest. The acquisition has made us one of the larger independent foreign money managers in that country.

We acquired all of the outstanding shares of Bissett & Associates Investment Management Ltd. (“Bissett”) in October
2000. Bissett now operates as part of our Canadian subsidiary, Franklin Templeton Investments Corp. With the acquisition of Bissett, we added Bissett’s family of mutual funds to our then existing Canadian based funds (some of which we
previously acquired as part of the Templeton family of funds) and expanded our investment management services throughout Canada to a broad range of clients, including institutional clients such as pension plans, municipalities, universities,
charitable foundations and private clients.

In April 2001, we acquired Fiduciary Trust Company International (“Fiduciary
Trust”), a bank organized under the New York State Banking Law. Following the acquisition, Fiduciary Trust became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Franklin. Fiduciary Trust provides investment management and related services to institutional
clients and high net-worth families and individuals.

In July 2002, our subsidiary, Franklin Templeton Asset Management
(India) Private Limited (“FTAMIPL”), acquired all of the outstanding shares of Pioneer ITI AMC Limited (“Pioneer”). In April 2007, we completed the purchase of the remaining 25% interest in each of FTAMIPL and Franklin Templeton
Trustee Services Private Limited, each located in India. We are currently one of the largest private sector asset managers in India.

In October 2003, we expanded our private equity investment management services in emerging markets when we acquired all of the remaining outstanding shares of Darby Overseas Investments, Ltd. and all of
the remaining outstanding limited partnership interests of Darby Overseas Partners, L.P. (collectively, “Darby”), in which we previously held a partial interest. Darby, based in Washington, D.C., sponsors and manages funds for
institutional investors and high net-worth individuals that invest primarily in emerging markets, private equity, and mezzanine finance transactions, including regional and specialized sector funds.

In July 2006, we completed the purchase of all of the remaining interests in a Brazilian asset management company, Bradesco Templeton
Asset Management Ltda., in which we previously held a partial interest. Upon acquisition, the company was renamed Franklin Templeton Investimentos (Brasil) Ltda.

LINES OF BUSINESS



I.Investment Management and Related Services Business

We derive substantially all of our revenues from providing investment management and related services to our sponsored investment products and the sub-advised accounts that we manage. Our revenues depend
to a large extent on the amount of assets under management and the types of investment management services provided. Underwriting and distribution fees, also a large source of our revenues, consist of sales charges and commissions derived from sales
of our sponsored investment products and distribution fees.

Our investment management business is primarily conducted through
our subsidiaries, including subsidiaries registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Advisers Act”),
subsidiaries registered as equivalent investment advisers in jurisdictions including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, The Bahamas and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), and certain other
subsidiaries.









A.Types of Assets Under Management (“AUM”)

Fees for providing investment management and related services (“investment management fees”) are generally based upon the monetary value of assets under management in the accounts that we
advise, the investment category of the account and the types of services that we provide for an account. As of September 30, 2010, the types of assets under management by investment category for the various services described below and held by
investors on a worldwide basis were:



Type of AssetValue in BillionsPercentage of Total AUMEquityGrowth potential, income potential or various combinations thereof$273.742.4%HybridAsset allocation, balanced, flexible and income-mixed funds110.817.2%Fixed-IncomeBoth long-term and short-term253.839.4%Cash ManagementShort-term liquid assets6.61.0%Total$644.9100.0%

Broadly speaking, the change in the net assets of our sponsored investment products depends primarily upon
two factors: (1) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities held in the portfolio of investments; and (2) the level of sales (inflows) as compared to the level of redemptions (outflows). We are subject to the risk of
asset volatility, resulting from changes in the global financial and equity markets. In addition, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and U.S. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue
and income depending upon the nature of our assets under management and the level of management fees we earn based on them. Despite the risk of volatility, we believe that we are more competitive as a result of the greater diversity of our sponsored
investment products available to our customers.



B.Types of Investment Management and Related Services



1.Investment Management Services Overview

We provide our investment management services pursuant to agreements in effect with each of our sponsored investment products and the sub-advised accounts that we manage. Investment management services
include services to managed accounts with full investment discretion, and to advisory accounts with no investment discretion. Advisory accounts for which we do not have investment discretion may or may not include the authority to trade for the
account. Our investment management services include fundamental investment research and valuation analyses, including original economic, political, industry and company research, and analyses of suppliers, customers and competitors. Our company
research includes the utilization of such sources as company public records and other publicly available information, management interviews, company prepared information, and company visits and inspections. In addition, research services provided by
brokerage firms are used to support our findings. Our management fee on an account varies, among other things, upon the types of services that we provide for the account.

Our subsidiaries providing discretionary investment management services for our sponsored investment products and sub-advised accounts either perform or obtain investment research and determine which
securities the sponsored investment products or sub-advised accounts will purchase, hold or sell under the supervision and oversight of the funds’ boards of directors or trustees, if applicable. In addition, these subsidiaries may take all
appropriate steps to implement such decisions, including arranging for the







selection of brokers and dealers and the execution and settlement of trades in accordance with detailed criteria set forth in the management agreement for each account, internal policies, and
applicable law and practice. Our subsidiaries conducting non-discretionary investment management services perform investment research for our clients and recommend which securities the clients will purchase, hold or sell. In such cases, the
subsidiaries may or may not perform trading activities for the products.

For the most part, the investment management agreements between our subsidiaries and our U.S. Funds must be renewed each year (after an
initial two-year term), and must be specifically approved at least annually by a vote of each fund’s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by the directors/trustees that are not interested persons of such fund under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”), or by a vote of the holders of a majority of such fund’s outstanding voting securities.

Our U.S. investment management agreements automatically terminate in the event of their “assignment”, as defined in the Investment Company Act. In addition, either party may terminate such an
agreement without penalty after prior written notice. If agreements representing a significant portion of our assets under management were terminated, it would have a material adverse impact on us.

Under the majority of our investment management agreements, the funds pay us a monthly fee in arrears based upon a fund’s average
daily net assets. Annual fee rates under the various global investment management agreements generally range from 0.15% to a maximum of 2.50% and are often reduced as net assets exceed various threshold levels. Annual rates vary by investment
objective and type of services provided. Our investment management agreements generally permit us to provide investment management services to more than one fund and to other clients so long as our ability to render services to each of the funds is
not impaired, and so long as purchases and sales of portfolio securities for various advised funds are made on an equitable basis.

We use a “master/feeder” fund of funds structure in certain situations. This structure allows an investment adviser to manage a single portfolio of securities at the “master fund”
level and have multiple “feeder funds” that invest substantially all of their respective assets into the master fund. Individual and institutional shareholders invest in the “feeder funds”, which can offer a variety of service
and distribution options. A management fee may be charged either at the master fund level or the feeder fund level







depending on the specific requirements of the fund, although, funds also involving performance fees or carried interest will typically charge these together with management fees at the master
fund level. Administrative, shareholder servicing and custodian fees are often waived at the feeder fund level and only charged at the master fund level, although the feeder funds will indirectly bear their pro-rata share of the expenses of the
master fund as an investor in the master fund. Fees and expenses specific to a feeder fund may be charged at the level of that feeder fund. In addition, our U.S. funds of funds enter into expense allocation arrangements with their affiliated
underlying funds pursuant to which the underlying funds pay certain expenses of the fund of funds.

Our management personnel
and the fund directors or trustees regularly review the investment management services fee structures for U.S. Funds in light of fund performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors. Investment
management services fees are generally waived or voluntarily reduced when a new fund is established and then increased to contractual levels within an established timeline or as net asset values reach certain levels.

Our non-U.S. Funds, unregistered funds, institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts, and the sub-advised accounts that
we manage, have various termination rights and review and renewal provisions.



2.Underwriting and Distribution

A
significant portion of our revenues are generated from providing underwriting and distribution services. Our mutual funds and certain other products generally pay us distribution fees in return for sales, marketing and distribution efforts on their
behalf. Fund shares are sold primarily through a large network of independent intermediaries, including broker/dealers, banks and other similar financial advisers.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. (“FTDI”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Franklin, acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of shares of most of our open-end U.S. Funds. Certain of
our non-U.S. subsidiaries provide underwriting and distribution services to our Non-U.S. Funds distributed outside the United States. Some of our Non-U.S. Funds, particularly the Luxembourg-domiciled Franklin Templeton Investment Funds
Société d’Investissement à Capital Variable (“SICAV”), are distributed globally on a cross-border basis, while others are distributed exclusively in local markets. We earn underwriting and distribution fees
primarily by distributing our funds pursuant to distribution agreements between FTDI or our non-U.S. subsidiaries and the funds. Under each distribution agreement, we offer and sell the fund’s shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs
associated with underwriting and distributing the fund’s shares, including the costs of developing and producing sales literature, shareholder reports and prospectuses, which may be then either partially or fully reimbursed by the funds.

Most of our retail funds are distributed with a multi-class share structure. We adopted this share structure to provide
investors with more sales charge alternatives for their investments. Certain share classes, such as Class A shares, are sold without a front-end sales charge to shareholders when minimum investment criteria are met, although our distribution
subsidiaries pay an up-front commission to financial intermediaries on these sales. Class B shares, which are available in some of our Non-U.S. Funds and in the Section 529 college savings plans that we manage and distribute, have no front-end
sales charges, but instead have a declining schedule of sales charges (called contingent deferred sales charges) if the investor redeems within a certain number of years from the original purchase date. Although our open-end U.S. Funds that had
offered Class B shares no longer offer these shares, existing Class B shareholders may continue to exchange shares into Class B shares of different funds and may continue to reinvest dividends on Class B shares in additional Class B shares. Class C
shares also have no front-end sales charges, although our distribution subsidiaries pay an up-front commission to financial intermediaries on these sales. Class C shares do have a back-end sales charge for redemptions within 12 months from the date
of







purchase. Although Class C shares are generally more costly to us in the year of sale, they allow us to be competitive by increasing our presence in various distribution channels. Class R shares
are available for purchase by certain retirement, college savings and health savings plan accounts in the United States only. Outside of the United States, we offer additional share classes in response to local needs. Also, outside of the United
States, Class X shares are available which are not subject to an initial charge or an investment management fee.

In the
United States, we also offer U.S. Advisor Class shares in many of our funds, and we offer Class Z shares in the Mutual Series funds, both of which have no sales charges. Franklin Global Trust offers a share class with no sales charge primarily to
high net-worth or institutional investors. Advisor and Class Z shares are offered to certain qualified financial intermediaries, institutions and high net-worth clients (both affiliated and unaffiliated) who have assets held in accounts managed by a
subsidiary of Franklin and are also available to our full-time employees, current and former officers, trustees and directors and certain Section 529 college savings plans. In the United States, we also offer money market funds to investors
without a sales charge. Under the terms and conditions described in the prospectuses or the statements of additional information for some funds, certain investors can purchase shares at net asset value or at reduced sales charges. Outside the United
States, we offer share classes similar to the Advisor Class shares to certain types of investors, although depending upon the fund and the country(ies) in which the fund is domiciled, the equivalent share class may be offered on a more restrictive
or less restrictive basis than the similar U.S. Advisor Class shares.

Some of our insurance products funds offered for sale
in the United States offer a four-class share structure, Class 1, Class 2, Class 3 and Class 4 shares, which are offered at net asset value without a sales charge directly to insurance company separate accounts.

Internationally, we offer types of share classes based on the local needs of the investors in a particular market, subject to applicable
regulations which may change over time. In the majority of cases, investors in any class of shares may exchange their shares for a like class of shares in another fund, subject to certain fees that may apply. Our Non-U.S. Funds have sales charges
and fee structures that vary by region.

Most of our open-end U.S. Funds, with the exception of certain of
our money market funds as well as certain high net-worth and institutional funds, have adopted distribution plans under Rule 12b-1 (the “Rule 12b-1 Plans”) promulgated under the Investment Company Act (“Rule 12b-1”). Under the
Rule 12b-1 Plans the funds bear certain expenses relating to the distribution of their shares, such as expenses for marketing, marketing support, advertising, printing and sales promotion, and may provide for the funds to reimburse







such expenses that FTDI incurs in distributing the funds, subject to the Rule 12b-1 Plans’ limitations on amounts. Each fund has a percentage limit for these types of expenses based on its
average daily net assets under management. The SEC has proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds.

The Rule 12b-1 Plans are established for an initial term of one year and, thereafter, must be approved annually by each fund’s board
of directors or trustees and by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act (the “disinterested fund directors/trustees”). All of these Rule 12b-1 Plans are subject to
termination at any time by a majority vote of the disinterested fund directors/trustees or by the particular fund shareholders. Fees from the Rule 12b-1 Plans that FTDI receives as revenue are paid primarily to third-party broker/dealers who provide
services to the shareholder accounts and engage in distribution activities. Similar arrangements exist with the distribution of our Non-U.S. Funds where, generally, our subsidiary that distributes the funds in the local market arranges for and pays
commissions and certain other fees to banks and other intermediaries, a portion of which fees is paid from maintenance fees received by the subsidiary and a portion of which may derive from the management fees paid to our various affiliates by the
funds.

Historically, Class B (or equivalent) and certain of our Class C deferred commission assets (“DCA”) arising
from our U.S., Canadian and European operations were financed through transfers to or other arrangements with a company in which we held a 49% ownership interest. All DCA held by this company was sold to FTDI or the holder of the 51% ownership
interest in September 2009, and repayments to the company under these financing arrangements were discontinued. We liquidated our ownership interest in the company in December 2009.

FTDI and/or its affiliates may make the following additional payments to broker/dealers that sell shares of our funds:

Marketing support payments.









Transaction support
payments.FTDI may pay ticket charges of up to $20 per purchase or exchange order placed by a broker/dealer or one-time payments for ancillary services, such as setting up funds on a broker/dealer’s fund trading system.

Other payments.From time to time, FTDI, at its expense, may make additional payments to broker/dealers that sell or arrange for
the sale of shares of our U.S. Funds. FTDI routinely sponsors due diligence meetings for registered representatives during which they receive updates on various funds and are afforded the opportunity to speak with portfolio managers. Invitation to
these meetings is not conditioned on selling a specific number of shares. Those who have shown an interest in our funds, however, are more likely to be considered. To the extent permitted by their firm’s policies and procedures, registered
representatives’ expenses in attending these meetings may be covered by FTDI. Similar payments may be made by our internal Non-U.S. Fund distributors, to third party distributors of our non-U.S. Funds.

Other compensation may be offered to the extent not prohibited by federal or state laws or any self-regulatory agency, such as the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). FTDI makes payments for events it deems appropriate, subject to FTDI’s guidelines and applicable law.



3.Shareholder and Transfer Agency Services

We receive shareholder servicing fees for providing transfer agency services, which include providing customer statements, transaction processing, customer service, and tax reporting. One of our
subsidiaries, Franklin Templeton Investor Services, LLC (“FTIS”), serves as shareholder servicing and dividend-paying agent for our open-end U.S. Funds. FTIS is registered with the SEC as a transfer agent under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended. Generally, FTIS is compensated under an agreement with each fund on the basis of an annual per account fee that varies with the fund and the type of services being provided. FTIS also is reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses.
Other subsidiaries provide similar services to our non-U.S. Funds, and in some cases are compensated based on assets under management.

FTIS may also pay servicing fees to third-party intermediaries primarily to help offset costs associated with client account maintenance support, statement preparation and transaction processing. Such
third parties: (i) maintain omnibus accounts with the fund in the institution’s name on behalf of numerous beneficial owners of fund shares; or (ii) provide support for fund shareholder accounts by sharing account data with FTIS
through the National Securities Clearing Corporation networking system. The funds reimburse FTIS for these third party payments.



4.High Net-Worth Investment Management and Related Services

Through Fiduciary Trust (including its trust company and investment adviser subsidiaries), we provide investment management services to, among others, high net-worth individuals and families. Similarly,
through our Canadian high net-worth business unit, Fiduciary Trust Company of Canada (“FTCC”), we provide investment management services and offer sponsored investment products to high net-worth individuals and families. Our high net-worth
client business seeks to maintain relationships that span generations and help families plan the most appropriate method of intergenerational wealth transfer.

Individual client assets are typically held in accounts separately managed by individual portfolio managers. These portfolio managers determine asset allocation and stock selection for client accounts,
taking into consideration each client’s specific long-term objectives while utilizing our macroeconomic and individual stock research.

Fiduciary Trust services that focus on managing family wealth from generation to generation include wealth management, estate planning, private banking, tax and custody services. We offer clients
personalized attention and estate planning expertise in an integrated package of services known as Family







Resource Management®(“FRM”). Services under FRM
provide clients with an integrated strategy to optimize wealth accumulation and maximize after-tax wealth transfer to the next generation. Evaluation of third-party investment management products or services is performed by the Strategic Advisory
Group, an investment advisory group within Fiduciary Trust.



5.Institutional Management

We
provide a broad array of investment management services to institutional clients, focusing on foundations, endowment funds and government and corporate pension plans. Our subsidiaries offer a wide range of both U.S. and international equity,
fixed-income and specialty strategies through a variety of investment vehicles, including separate accounts, open-end and closed-end funds and unregistered funds. In the U.S., we generally operate our institutional business under the trade name
“Franklin Templeton Institutional”.

Through various legal entities, including Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC
and various non-U.S. subsidiaries, we distribute and market globally the different investment management capabilities of our various investment management subsidiaries under the Franklin, Templeton, Mutual Series, Bissett and Darby brand names. We
primarily attract new institutional business through our strong relationships with pension and management consultants, through direct sales efforts and through additional mandates from our existing client relationships.

Our U.S. retirement business is conducted through divisions of FTDI that work closely with sponsors, consultants, record keepers and
financial advisors of defined contribution plans, including 401(k) plans, variable annuity products and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”). We offer our asset management capabilities to the U.S. retirement industry through a number of
investment options, including sub-advised portfolios, funds, education savings plans and variable insurance funds.

Through
our various subsidiaries, we also market and distribute our sponsored investment products to separately-managed accounts. Our subsidiaries, Franklin Templeton Financial Services Corp. and Templeton/Franklin Investment Services, Inc., also serve as
direct marketing broker/dealers for institutional investors for certain of our institutional mutual funds, private investment funds and unregistered funds.



6.Trust and Custody

Through
various trust company subsidiaries, including Fiduciary Trust, we offer a wide range of investment management and related services, including trust services, custody and administration, estate planning, tax planning, and private banking, to high
net-worth individuals, families, foundations and institutional clients. In addition, we also offer our clients a series of other services, including foreign exchange, performance measurement and securities lending. We provide planned giving
administration and related custody services for non-profit organizations, including pooled income funds, charitable remainder trusts, charitable lead trusts and gift annuities, for which we may or may not act as trustee.

Our other subsidiaries involved in the trust business, either as trust companies or companies investing in trust companies, include:
Fiduciary Investment Corporation, which is incorporated under the New York State Banking Law and serves as an indirect holding company for several of our trust company subsidiaries; FTCC, a trust company incorporated under the Trust and Loan
Companies Act in Canada; Fiduciary Trust International of the South, a Florida state-chartered limited purpose trust company; Fiduciary Trust International of California, a California state-chartered limited purpose trust company; Fiduciary Trust
International of Delaware, a Delaware state-chartered limited purpose trust company; FTCI (Cayman) Ltd., an offshore trust company holding an unrestricted trust license in the Cayman Islands; and Franklin Templeton Bank & Trust, F.S.B.
(“FTB&T”), a chartered federal savings bank. All of the trust companies







referenced above have full trust powers. FTB&T, among other functions, exercises full trust powers and serves primarily as custodian of IRAs and business retirement plans.



7.Private Equity Investment Management

Darby is primarily engaged in sponsoring and managing funds that invest in private equity and mezzanine finance transactions in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Central/Eastern Europe. Darby
offers these investment funds through private placements to institutional and high net-worth individual investors.

In
addition, Templeton Asset Management Ltd., an investment adviser, sponsors and manages a limited number of private equity funds, which also invest primarily in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Central/Eastern Europe.



C.Summary of Our Sponsored Investment Products

Our sponsored investment products are offered globally to retail, institutional, high net-worth and separate account clients, which include individual investors, qualified groups, trustees, tax-deferred
(such as IRAs in the United States and retirement saving plans, or RSPs, in Canada) or money purchase plans, employee benefit and profit sharing plans, trust companies, bank trust departments and institutional investors. Our sponsored investment
products include portfolios managed for some of the world’s largest corporations, endowments, charitable foundations and pension funds, as well as wealthy individuals and other institutions. We use various investment techniques to focus on
specific client objectives for these specialized portfolios.



1.Investment Objectives Overview

The sponsored investment products that we offer accommodate a variety of investment goals, spanning the spectrum of our clients’ risk
tolerance – from capital appreciation (with our more growth-oriented products) to capital preservation (with our fixed-income offerings). In seeking to achieve such objectives, each portfolio emphasizes different strategies and invests in
different types of securities.

Portfolios seeking income
generally focus on one or more of the following securities: taxable and tax-exempt money market instruments; tax-exempt municipal bonds; global fixed-income securities; and fixed-income debt securities of corporations, of the U.S. government and its
sponsored agencies and







instrumentalities, such as the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or of the various states in the
United States. Others focus on investments in particular countries and regions.



2.Types of Sponsored Investment Products

As of September 30, 2010 we had $644.9 billion in assets under management. Our open-end U.S. Funds (excluding our insurance products trust) accounted for $323.0 billion of our assets under
management. As of September 30, 2010, our five largest open-end U.S. Funds and their net assets under management were Franklin Income Fund ($54.5 billion), Templeton Global Bond Fund ($41.0 billion), Templeton Growth Fund ($17.3 billion),
Mutual Global Discovery Fund ($17.2 billion) and Franklin California Tax-Free Income Fund ($15.0 billion). These five funds represented, in the aggregate, approximately 22% of all of our sponsored investment product assets under management.

Franklin Templeton Variable Insurance Products Trust, our insurance products trust, offers 21 funds to U.S. investors, with
assets of $30.7 billion as of September 30, 2010. Our insurance products funds are available as investment options through variable insurance contracts and are also sold to certain funds of funds. Most of the insurance products funds have been
fashioned after some of our more popular retail U.S. Funds offered to the general public and are managed, in most cases, by the same investment advisors.

We also provide investment management and related services to a number of closed-end investment companies whose shares are traded on various major U.S. stock exchanges. Our closed-end U.S. Funds accounted
for $4.8 billion of our assets under management.

In addition, $150.4 billion of our assets under management were held in
open-end and closed-end funds that are sold outside of the United States, and whose investment objectives vary, but are largely international and global equity and global fixed-income oriented. We provide investment management, marketing and
distribution services to SICAV funds, contract-type funds and umbrella unit trusts organized in Luxembourg and Ireland, respectively, which are distributed in non-U.S. market places, as well as to locally organized funds in various countries outside
the United States. In some countries, we offer products for the particular local market. For example, FTAMIPL, one of our subsidiaries in India, manages various local open-end and closed-end funds offered to investors in India, with assets under
management of $8.9 billion as of September 30, 2010.

Our private investment funds, typically structured as limited
partnerships or companies, which include our Darby products, private equity real estate and private equity emerging market funds, accounted for $4.6 billion of our assets under management.

On a company-wide basis, our institutional, separate, high net-worth and other accounts accounted for $131.4 billion of assets under
management.









3.Open-End U.S. Funds and Non-U.S. Funds

In an effort to address changing market conditions and evolving investor needs, we periodically introduce new funds, merge existing funds or liquidate existing funds. The following table shows the various
types of our open-end U.S. Funds and dedicated insurance products funds as of September 30, 2010 categorized by investment classification:

OPEN-END U.S. FUNDS





CATEGORY(and approximate amount of assets undermanagement, as of September 30, 2010)In BillionsINVESTMENT CLASSIFICATIONNO. OFMUTUALFUNDSNO. OFINSURANCEPRODUCTSFUNDS

I.     EQUITY FUNDS ($133.9)



A.Capital Appreciation Funds($21.2)Seek capital appreciation; dividends are not a primary consideration.



1. Aggressive Growth FundsInvest mainly in common stocks of small, growth companies.41



2. Growth FundsInvest mainly in common stocks of well-established companies.102



3. Sector FundsInvest mainly in companies in related fields.61



B.World Equity Funds($75.7)Invest mainly in stocks of non-U.S. companies.



1. Emerging Market FundsInvest mainly in companies based in developing regions of the world.41



2. Global Equity FundsInvest mainly in equity securities traded worldwide, including those of U.S. companies.93



3. International Equity FundsInvest two-thirds or more of their portfolios in equity securities of companies located outside the United States.81



4. Regional Equity FundsInvest in companies based in a specific part of the world.50



C.Total Return Funds($37.0)Seek a combination of current income and capital appreciation.



1. Growth and Income FundsInvest mainly in common stocks of established companies with the potential for growth and a consistent record of dividend payments.75



II.     HYBRID FUNDS ($65.8)Invest in a mix of equities, fixed-income securities, and derivative instruments.



A. Asset Allocation Funds ($0.6)Invest in various asset classes including, but not limited to, equities, fixed-income securities, and money market instruments.191



B. Balanced Funds ($0.2)Invest in a specific mix of equity securities and bonds with the three-part objective of conserving principal, providing income, and achieving long-term growth of both principal and
income.20









CATEGORY(and approximate amount of assets undermanagement, as of September 30, 2010)In BillionsINVESTMENT CLASSIFICATIONNO. OFMUTUALFUNDSNO. OFINSURANCEPRODUCTSFUNDS



C. Flexible Portfolio Funds ($1.8)Invest in various asset classes including, but not limited to, equities, fixed-income securities, and money market instruments.60



D. Income-Mixed Funds ($63.2)Invest in a variety of income-producing securities, including equities and fixed-income instruments.31

III.     FIXED-INCOME – TAXABLE BOND FUNDS ($76.1)



A. High Yield Funds ($3.6)Invest two-thirds or more of their portfolios in lower-rated U.S. corporate bonds (Baa or lower by Moody’s and BBB or lower by Standard & Poor’s rating
services).11



B. World Bond Funds ($46.2)Invest in debt securities offered by non-U.S. companies and governments.



1. Global Bond Funds:GeneralInvest in debt securities worldwide with no stated average maturity or an average maturity of five years or more.22



2. Global Bond Funds:Short-TermInvest in debt securities worldwide with an average maturity of one to five years.10



3. Other World Bond FundsInvest two-thirds or more of their portfolios in non-U.S. government and corporate debt instruments.20



C. Government Bond Funds ($15.1)Invest in U.S. government bonds of varying maturities.



1. Government Bond Funds:Intermediate TermInvest two-thirds or more of their portfolios in U.S. government securities with an average maturity of five to ten years.01



2. Government Bond Funds:Short-TermInvest two-thirds or more of their portfolios in U.S. government securities with an average maturity of one to five years.10



3. Mortgage-Backed FundsInvest two-thirds or more of their portfolios in pooled mortgage-backed securities.30



D. Strategic Income Funds ($9.1)Invest in a combination of U.S. fixed-income securities.41



E. Corporate Bond Funds ($2.1)Seek current income by investing in high-quality debt securities issued by U.S. corporations.









CATEGORY(and approximate amount of assets undermanagement, as of September 30, 2010)In BillionsINVESTMENT CLASSIFICATIONNO. OFMUTUALFUNDSNO. OFINSURANCEPRODUCTSFUNDS



1. Corporate Bond Funds:GeneralInvest two-thirds or more of their portfolios in U.S. corporate bonds with no stated average maturity.10



2. Corporate Bond Funds:Short-TermInvest two-thirds or more of their portfolios in U.S. corporate bonds with an average maturity of one to five years.20

IV.     FIXED-INCOME –TAX-FREE BOND FUNDS ($73.2)



A. State Municipal Bond Funds ($47.6)Invest mainly in municipal bonds issued by a particular state.



1. State Municipal Bond Funds:GeneralInvest mainly in single-state municipal bonds with an average maturity of greater than five years or no specific stated maturity. The income from these funds is largely exempt from
federal as well as state income tax for residents of the state.270



B. National Municipal Bond Funds ($25.6)Invest mainly in bonds of various municipal issuers in the United States.



1. National Municipal Bond Funds:GeneralInvest mainly in municipal bonds with an average maturity of more than five years or no specific stated maturity.40



2. National Municipal Bond Funds:Short-TermInvest mainly in municipal bonds with an average maturity of one to five years.10



V.     CASH MANAGEMENT FUNDS ($4.7)



A. Taxable Cash Management Funds ($4.0)Invest in short-term, high-grade money market securities with average maturities of 90 days of less.



1. Taxable Cash Management Funds:Non-GovernmentInvest mainly in a variety of money market instruments, including certificates of deposit from larger banks, commercial paper, and bankers’ acceptances.50



B. Tax-Exempt Cash Management Funds ($0.7)Invest in short-term municipal securities with average maturities of 90 days or less.



1. National Tax-Exempt Cash Management FundsInvest in short-term securities of various U.S. municipal issuers.10



2. State Tax-Exempt Cash Management FundsInvest mainly in a variety of short-term securities of municipal issuers in a single state to achieve tax-free income for residents of the state.10









The following table
sets forth the types of our open-end Non-U.S. Funds as of September 30, 2010 categorized by investment classification and sales region.

OPEN-END NON-U.S. FUNDS1



CATEGORY(and approximate amount of assets undermanagement, as of September 30, 2010)In BillionsINVESTMENT CLASSIFICATIONNO. OFMUTUALFUNDS BY SALESREGIONI.     EQUITY FUNDS ($63.0)A. Global/International Equity  Funds ($58.2)Invest in securities of companies traded world-wide, including U.S. and non-U.S. companies.Asia-Pacific:Canada:Europe:Latin America:7742463B. United States EquityFunds ($4.8)Invest in equity securities of U.S. companies.Asia-Pacific:Canada:Europe:1913II.     HYBRID FUNDS ($4.2)Invest in a mix of global equity, fixed-income securities and derivative instruments.Asia-Pacific:Canada:Europe:Latin America:1523101III.     FIXED-INCOME FUNDS ($72.4)A. Global/International Fixed- Income Funds ($65.2)Invest world-wide in debt securities offered by non-U.S. companies and governments. These funds may also invest assets in debt securities offered by companies located in the United
States.Asia-Pacific:Canada:Europe:Latin America:4112162B. United States Fixed-Income  Funds ($7.2)Invest in debt securities offered by U.S. companies and the U.S. government and/or municipalities located in the United States.Asia-Pacific:Canada:Europe:125IV.     TAXABLE CASH MANAGEMENT FUNDS ($1.9)Invest in securities issued or guaranteed by U.S. or non-U.S. governments or agencies.Asia-Pacific:Canada:Europe:483



1For purposes of this table, we consider the sales region to be where a fund is based and mainly sold and not necessarily the region where a particular
fund is invested. Many funds are also distributed across different sales regions (e.g., SICAV funds are based, mainly sold in, and, therefore, considered to be within the Europe sales region, although also distributed in the Asia-Pacific and Latin
America sales regions), but are only designated a single sales region in the table.



II.Banking/Finance Business

Our secondary business segment is banking/finance, which offers select retail banking, private banking and consumer lending services through our bank subsidiaries. Our banking and consumer lending
activities include consumer credit and debit cards, real estate equity lines, home equity/mortgage lending, and automobile lending related to the purchase, securitization and servicing of retail installment sales contracts originated by independent
automobile dealerships.

One of our subsidiaries, Fiduciary Trust, a New York state-chartered bank, with total assets of
$778.8 million and total external customer deposits of $473.0 million as of September 30, 2010, is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), and provides private banking services primarily to high net-worth
clients who maintain trust, custody and/or management accounts. Fiduciary Trust’s private







banking and credit products include, among others, loans secured by marketable securities, deposit accounts and other banking services. Deposits generally include demand and savings deposits,
primarily from our private banking clients. Fiduciary Trust also offers investment management, custody and related services to high net-worth individuals and families and to institutional accounts.

Another of our subsidiaries, Franklin Capital Corporation (“FCC”), engages primarily in the purchase, securitization and
servicing of retail installment sales contracts (“automobile contracts”) originated by independent automobile dealerships or directly. FCC is incorporated and headquartered in Utah and conducts its business primarily in the Western region
of the United States. As of September 30, 2010, FCC’s total assets included $26.3 million of outstanding automobile loan principal, $23.4 million of trading securities, representing retained interests in FCC securitizations, and $1.3
million in other fixed term assets. FCC did not enter into any automobile loan securitization transactions during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, and does not anticipate entering into any new securitization transactions during fiscal year 2011. As of
September 30, 2010, FCC was servicing $320.0 million of receivables that had been securitized to date. See Note 2 – New Accounting Standards and Note 8 – Securitization of Loans Held for Sale in the notes to consolidated financial
statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K.

Our securitized automobile contracts business is subject to
marketplace fluctuation and competes with businesses with significantly larger portfolios. Automobile loan portfolio losses can be influenced significantly by trends in the economy and credit markets, which reduce borrowers’ ability to repay
loans. A more detailed analysis of loan losses and delinquency rates in our consumer lending and dealer automobile loan business is contained in Note 8 – Securitization of Loans Held for Sale in the notes to consolidated financial statements in
Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. See also “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K.

Our subsidiary FTB&T, a chartered federal savings bank, with total assets of $325.2 million and total external customer deposits of $182.7 million as of September 30, 2010, is insured by the
FDIC. FTB&T provides general consumer loan products, such as credit card loans, unsecured loans, loans secured by marketable securities, mortgage loans, debit card products and automobile loans, and a limited number of commercial real estate
loans. FTB&T’s deposit products generally include demand, savings and time deposits from the general public and brokered time deposits. FTB&T also provides Advisor Director Trust®, a directed trust service.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Certain financial information by business segment and geographic area is contained in Note 17 – Segment Information in the notes to
consolidated financial statements in Item 
8 of Part II of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS

Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to various federal, state, and international regulation and supervision
which continue to change and evolve over time.

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Reform Act”). The Reform Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, is expected to impose additional restrictions and limitations on us and will likely result in
increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. Due to the complexity and broad scope of the Reform Act and time required for regulatory implementation, we are not able to predict at this time the specific requirements that
will be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us pursuant to the Reform Act, or the impact that any changes in regulation would have on our business. We will







continue to review and evaluate the Reform Act and the extent of its impact on our business as the various rules and regulations required for implementation are adopted.

The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on certain of our subsidiaries registered with the SEC as
investment advisers, including record keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations on the investment companies that are
advised by our subsidiaries. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s
registration.

The Company and many of the investment companies advised by our various subsidiaries are subject to federal
securities laws and state securities and corporate laws, including those affecting corporate governance, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the SEC. As a NYSE-listed company, we are also subject to the rules of the NYSE,
including its corporate governance standards. The federal securities laws have also been augmented by other measures, including the USA Patriot Act of 2001.

FINRA Conduct Rules limit the amount of aggregate sales charges that may be paid in connection with the purchase and holding of investment company shares sold through broker/dealers. The effect of the
rule is to limit the amount of fees that could be paid pursuant to a fund’s Rule 12b-1 Plan to FTDI, our principal underwriting and distribution subsidiary in the United States, which earns underwriting commissions on the distribution of
fund shares in the United States. The SEC has proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds.

In addition, in connection with our secondary business segment, banking/finance, we are currently a bank holding company and a financial
holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the FRB and the restrictions, limitations and prohibitions of the BHC Act and the GLB Act. Significant aspects of the Reform Act relate to changes in the regulation of banks, thrifts,
holding companies and related







institutions, and the imposition of various restrictions and limitations on certain activities of such entities. The Reform Act includes a number of measures that will increase capital and
liquidity requirements, impose limits on leverage, and enhance supervisory authority and regulatory oversight of non-banking entities, which may apply to our business.

Under FRB policy, a bank holding company, including a financial holding company, is expected to act as a source of financial strength to each of its banking subsidiaries. In addition, bank holding
companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available from the previous fiscal year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with anticipated future needs and financial condition.

The BHC Act generally requires that a bank holding company obtain prior approval of
the FRB before acquiring control of any bank. In addition, the FRB may impose limitations, restrictions, or prohibitions on the activities or acquisitions of a financial holding company if the FRB believes that the financial holding company does not
have appropriate financial and managerial resources. The GLB Act establishes the FRB as the umbrella supervisor for financial holding companies and adopts an administrative approach to regulation that generally requires the FRB to defer to the
actions and requirements of the U.S. “functional”







regulators of subsidiary broker/dealers, investment advisers, investment companies, insurance companies, and other regulated non-depository institutions. The FRB, however, retains broad authority
to prohibit activities of bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries that represent unsafe and unsound banking practices or that constitute violations of law or regulation. Civil money penalties may be imposed for certain activities
conducted on a knowing or reckless basis if those activities cause a substantial loss to the bank holding company.

Each of
our banking subsidiaries is subject to restrictions under federal law that limit transactions with Franklin and its non-bank subsidiaries, including loans and other extensions of credit, investments, or asset purchases. These and various other
transactions, including any payment of money to Franklin and its non-bank subsidiaries, must be on terms and conditions that are, or in good faith would be, offered to companies that are not affiliated with these entities. In addition, these laws
and related regulations may limit the Company’s ability to obtain funds from subsidiary banks or affiliates.

The
operations and activities of Fiduciary Trust are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC and NYSBD while the operations and activities of our other subsidiaries, including FTB&T, are subject to oversight by the
OTS and various state regulators. The laws and regulations of these regulators generally impose restrictions and requirements, with which we must comply, on capital adequacy, anti-money laundering, management practices, liquidity, branching,
earnings, loans, dividends, investments, reserves against deposits and the provision of services.

The federal banking
agencies and the NYSBD have broad enforcement powers, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws,
regulations and supervisory agreements could subject Franklin, our thrift and banking subsidiaries, as well as officers, directors and other so-called “institution-affiliated parties” of these organizations to administrative sanctions and
potentially substantial civil money penalties. In addition, the appropriate federal banking agency may appoint the FDIC as conservator or receiver for a banking institution, or the FDIC may appoint itself if certain circumstances exist.

COMPETITION

The financial services industry is a highly competitive global industry. There are approximately 10,000 open-end investment funds of varying sizes, and with varying investment policies and objectives,
whose shares are offered to the public in the United States, and there are approximately 58,000 open-end investment funds whose shares are offered to the public outside the United States.

We face strong competition from numerous asset management companies, mutual fund, stock brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance
companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions, which offer a wide range of financial and investment management services to the same institutional accounts, separate accounts, retail investors and high net-worth
customers that we are seeking to attract. Competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees
charged.

Due to our international presence and varied product mix, it is difficult to assess our market position relative to
other asset managers on a worldwide basis, but we believe that we are one of the more widely diversified asset managers based in the United States. We believe that our equity and fixed-income asset mix coupled with our global presence will serve our
competitive needs well over the long term. We continue to focus on the performance of our investment products, service to customers and extensive marketing activities through our strong broker/dealer and other financial institution distribution
network as







well as with high net-worth and institutional customers. We believe that performance, diversity of products and customer service, along with fees and costs, are the primary drivers of competition
in the asset management industry.

The periodic establishment of new asset management firms and investment products increases
the competition that we face. Many of our competitors have long-standing and established relationships with broker/dealers and investment adviser customers. Others have focused on, offer and market specific product lines, which are able to provide
strong competition to certain of our asset classes, since we have a broad range of products. In addition, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors, some with greater financial resources and broader
distribution channels than our own.

We rely largely on third-party broker/dealers and other similar intermediaries to
distribute and sell our fund shares. We have and continue to pursue sales relationships with all types of intermediaries to broaden our distribution network. We have experienced increased costs related to maintaining our distribution channels and we
anticipate that this trend will continue. A failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major intermediaries who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. Additionally, competing
broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could further limit the distribution of our investment products. Any inability to access and
successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of assets under management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition.

We maintain an Internet platform to compete with rapidly developing and evolving technology capabilities. However, technology is subject
to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced Internet platforms for their products, which could affect our business.

We believe that we are well positioned to deal with changes in marketing trends as a result of our already extensive advertising activities and broad based marketplace recognition. We conduct advertising
and promotional campaigns through various media sources to promote brand recognition. We advertise in major financial publications, as well as on television and the Internet, to promote brand name recognition and to assist our distribution network.
Such activities include purchasing network and cable programming, sponsorship of sporting events, and newspaper and magazine advertising.

Diverse and strong competition also affects our secondary business segment, banking/finance, and limits the fees that we can charge for our services. For example, we compete with many types of
institutions for consumer loans, including the finance subsidiaries of large automobile manufacturers, which may offer special incentives, including no-interest loans, from time to time to stimulate automobile sales. Our inability to compete
effectively against these companies or to maintain our relationships with the various automobile dealers through which we offer consumer loans could limit the growth of our consumer loan business.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We have used, registered, and/or applied to register certain trademarks, service marks and trade names to distinguish our sponsored investment products and services from those of our competitors in the
United States and in other countries and jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, Franklin®, Templeton®, Mutual Series®, Bissett®, Fiduciary™
and Darby®. Our trademarks, service marks and trade names are important to us and, accordingly, we enforce our
trademark, service mark and trade name rights. The Franklin Templeton Investments®brand has been, and continues
to be, extremely well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. If our brand is harmed, our future business prospects may be adversely
affected.









EMPLOYEES

As of September 30, 2010, we employed approximately 7,900 employees and operated offices in 32 countries. We consider
our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Franklin files reports with the SEC, including current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information filed with or
furnished to the SEC from time to time. The public may read and copy any of these filings at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be
obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Franklin, who file electronically with the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov. Additional information about the Company’s filings can also be obtained at our website at
www.franklinresources.com under “Investor Relations”. We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

Corporate Governance Guidelines.The Company has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance
Guidelines are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.

Committee Charters.The Company’s Board of Directors has an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Directors has adopted written
charters for each such committee, which are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.



