Item 1.Business.

OVERVIEW

Franklin Resources, Inc. (“Franklin”) is a holding company that, together with its various subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”), operates as Franklin Templeton Investments®. The common stock of Franklin is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the ticker symbol “BEN,” and is included in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. In this report, words such as “we,” “us,” “our” and similar terms refer to the Company.

We offer our services and products under our Franklin®, Templeton®, Franklin Mutual Series®, Franklin Bissett®, Fiduciary Trust™, Darby®, Balanced Equity Management®, K2®, LibertyShares®and Edinburgh Partners™ brand names, among others. Unless otherwise indicated, our “funds” means the funds offered under our brand names.

We are a global investment management organization that provides investment management and related services to retail, institutional and high net-worth clients in jurisdictions worldwide through our investment products. As ofSeptember 30, 2018, we had$717.1 billionin assets under management (“AUM”). We take an active approach to investment management, which requires a high degree of active investment analysis conviction, strengthened by robust risk management. We have more than 70 years of experience that informs our perspective. We offer clients the combined experience of our investment professionals with expertise across asset classes and a sharp focus on managing risk. We are committed to delivering strong investment performance for our clients by offering a broad range of strategies and drawing on the experience and perspective gained through our long history in the investment management business. We are committed to achieving the best possible outcomes for our investors over the long term.

Our investment products include our funds, as well as institutional and high net-worth separate accounts. Our funds include U.S.-registered funds (“U.S. Funds”), non-U.S.-registered funds (“Non-U.S. Funds”), and unregistered funds. In addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing, and other services. We offer a broad product mix under our equity, multi-asset/balanced, fixed income and cash management investment objectives and solutions which meet a variety of investment goals and needs for investors. We also provide sub-advisory services to certain investment products sponsored by other companies which may be sold to investors under the brand names of those other companies or on a co-branded basis.

We know that success demands smart and effective business innovation, solutions and technologies, and we remain committed to focusing on investment excellence, innovating to meet evolving client goals, and building strong partnerships by delivering superior client service. Since 2016, we have introduced and expanded our Franklin LibertyShares platform of strategic beta and actively managed exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”), as well as additional lower fee passive ETF products. Our ETF platform is designed to provide investors with additional investment options.









We believe that mutual funds remain a critical tool to make professional investment management affordable for a broad range of investors. Our U.S. Funds and most of our Non-U.S. Funds operate as independent companies subject to the supervision and oversight of the funds’own boards of directors or trustees. Most of our funds are registered open-end mutual funds that continuously offer their shares to investors. We also offer registered closed-end funds that issue a set number of shares to investors in a public offering and the shares are then traded on a public stock exchange. Since the funds themselves do not have direct employees to support their operations, our subsidiaries either provide or arrange for the investment services our funds require. An investment advisory entity manages a fund’s portfolio of securities in accordance with the fund’s stated objectives. Investors may purchase shares of an open-end fund through a broker-dealer, financial adviser, bank or other similar financial intermediary that provides investment advice to the investor, while investors may purchase shares of a closed-end fund on the stock exchange where the fund is traded. Financial intermediaries may earn fees and commissions and receive other compensation with respect to the fund shares managed or sold to investors.

The business and regulatory environments in which we operate globally remain complex, uncertain and subject to change. We are subject to various laws, rules and regulations globally that impose restrictions, limitations and registration, reporting and disclosure requirements on our business and add complexity to our global compliance operations.

We continue to focus on the long-term investment performance of our investment products and on providing high quality customer service to our clients. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the Risk Factors discussed below in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, and other factors as discussed in this section.



COMPANY HISTORY

Since 1947, the Company and its predecessors have been engaged in the investment management and related services business. Franklin was incorporated in the State of Delaware in November 1969 and originated our mutual fund business with the initial Franklin family of funds, which is known for its fixed income funds and growth- and value-oriented equity funds. Over the years, we have expanded and developed our business to meet evolving investor needs, in part, by acquiring companies engaged in investment management and related services. As a result of these transactions, among others, we added the Templeton family of funds, which is known for its global investing strategies and value style of investing, in 1992; the Franklin Mutual Series family of funds, which is known for its value-oriented equity funds, in 1996; the Franklin Bissett family of funds, which is known for its Canadian taxable fixed income funds and growth-oriented equity funds, in 2000; the Fiduciary Trust investment management, trust and fiduciary services, in 2001; and the Darby family of funds, which is known for its emerging markets investing strategies, in 2003.

In May 2018, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Edinburgh Partners Limited, a global value investment manager based in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”). In October 2018, we entered into an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding ownership interests in Benefit Street Partners L.L.C., a U.S. alternative credit manager.



OUR BUSINESS

We believe in the value of active investment management to help investors navigate global markets, as well as in continuing to evolve and build on our strengths to meet the needs of our clients. Through our investment products, we serve a variety of clients consisting of retail, institutional and high net-worth investors in regions and jurisdictions worldwide. We derive our revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to our products as well as sub-advised products. Our investment management fees, which represent the majority of our revenues, depend to a large extent on the level and relative mix of our AUM and the types of services provided. Sales and distribution fees, also a significant source of our revenues, consist of sales charges and commissions derived from sales and distribution of our sponsored funds. These fees and arrangements change from time to time.

Our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, including those registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the “Advisers Act”), subsidiaries registered as investment adviser equivalents in jurisdictions including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, South Korea, The Bahamas, the United Arab Emirates, the U.K., and certain other subsidiaries.









AUM by Investment Objective

We offer a broad product mix under our equity, multi-asset/balanced, fixed income and cash management investment objectives and solutions, including alternative investment products, to meet a variety of investment goals. Our fees for providing investment management services are generally based on a percentage of the market value of AUM in the accounts that we advise, the investment objectives of the accounts and the types of services that we provide for the accounts. As ofSeptember 30, 2018, AUM by investment objective on a worldwide basis was as follows:

Investment ObjectiveValue in BillionsPercentage of Total AUMEquityGrowth potential, income potential, value or various combinations thereof$309.643%Multi-Asset/BalancedAsset allocation, balanced, flexible, alternative and income-mixed funds138.920%Fixed IncomeGlobal/international, U.S. tax-free and U.S. taxable259.336%Cash ManagementShort-term liquid assets9.31%Total$717.1100%

Broadly speaking, the change in the net assets of our products depends primarily upon two factors: (1) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities held in the portfolio of investments; and (2) the level of sales as compared to the level of redemptions. We are subject to the risk of asset volatility resulting from changes in the global capital markets. In addition, changing market conditions and the evolving needs of our clients may cause a shift in our asset mix, potentially resulting in an increase or decrease in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on our AUM. Despite such market risks, we believe that we have a competitive advantage as a result of the economic and geographic diversity of our products available to our clients.

Summary of Services

1.    Investment Management Services

Our subsidiaries that provide discretionary investment management services for our products and sub-advised products either perform or obtain investment research and determine which securities the products will purchase, hold or sell under the supervision and oversight of the funds’ boards of directors or trustees, as applicable. In addition, these subsidiaries may take all appropriate steps to implement such decisions, including arranging for the selection of broker-dealers and the execution and settlement of trades in accordance with applicable criteria set forth in the management agreements, internal policies, and applicable law and practice. Our subsidiaries that provide non-discretionary investment management services perform investment research for our clients and make recommendations as to which securities the clients purchase, hold or sell, and may or may not perform trading activities for the products.









Through our subsidiaries, we compensate the personnel who serve as officers of our funds or of the funds’ management companies, in addition to the personnel necessary to conduct the funds’ day-to-day business operations. The funds themselves do not have direct employees. Our subsidiaries either provide or arrange for the provision of: office space, telephone, office equipment and supplies; trading desk facilities; authorization of expenditures and approval of bills for payment; preparation of registration statements, proxy statements and annual and semi-annual reports to fund shareholders, notices of dividends, capital gains distributions and tax credits, and other regulatory reports; the daily pricing of fund investment portfolios, including collecting quotations from pricing services; accounting services, including preparing and supervising publication of daily net asset value quotations, periodic earnings reports and other financial data; services to ensure compliance with securities regulations, including recordkeeping requirements; preparation and filing of tax reports; the maintenance of accounting systems and controls; and other administrative services. The funds generally pay their own expenses, such as external legal, insurance, custody and independent audit fees, regulatory registration fees, and other related expenses. The funds also share in board and shareholder meeting and reporting costs.

For our U.S. Funds, the board of directors or trustees and our management personnel regularly review the investment management fee structures for the funds in light of fund performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors. Most of our investment management agreements between our subsidiaries and our U.S. Funds must be renewed each year (after an initial two-year term), and must be specifically approved at least annually by a vote of each fund’s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”), or by a vote of the holders of a majority of the fund’s outstanding voting securities. Our U.S. agreements automatically terminate in the event of their “assignment,” as defined in the Investment Company Act. In addition, either party may terminate such an agreement without penalty after prior written notice. If agreements representing a significant portion of our AUM were terminated, it would have a material adverse impact on us.

Under the majority of our investment management agreements globally, the funds pay us a monthly fee in arrears based upon the fund’s average daily net assets. Annual fee rates under our various agreements are often reduced as net assets exceed various threshold levels. Annual rates also vary by investment objective and type of services provided. Our agreements generally permit us to provide services to more than one fund and to other clients so long as our ability to render services to each of the funds is not impaired, and so long as purchases and sales of portfolio securities for various advised funds are made on an equitable basis.

We use a “master/feeder” fund structure in certain situations. This structure allows an investment adviser to manage a single portfolio of securities at the “master fund” level and have multiple “feeder funds” that invest substantially all of their respective assets into the master fund. Individual and institutional shareholders generally invest in the “feeder funds,” which can offer a variety of service and distribution options. A management fee (or performance fee or carried interest as applicable) may be charged either at the master fund level or the feeder fund level depending on the specific requirements of the fund. Administrative, shareholder servicing and custodian fees are often waived at the feeder fund level and only charged at the master fund level, although the feeder funds will indirectly bear their pro-rata share of the expenses of the master fund as an investor in the master fund. Fees and expenses specific to a feeder fund may be charged at the level of that feeder fund.

Our services also include management of our ETFs in the U.S., Canada and the European Union (“EU”). ETFs trade like stocks, fluctuate in market value and may trade at prices above or below the ETF’s net asset value.

Our Non-U.S. Funds, unregistered funds, institutional and high net-worth separate accounts, and the products for which we provide sub-advisory services are subject to various termination rights and review and renewal provisions. Investment management fees are generally waived or voluntarily reduced when a new fund or account is established and then increased to contractual levels within an established timeline or as net asset values reach certain levels.

2.    Institutional Investment Management

We provide a broad array of investment management services to institutional clients, which include corporations, endowments, charitable foundations, and pension and defined contribution plans. We distribute and market globally our different capabilities under our brand names through various subsidiaries. In the U.S., we generally operate our institutional business under the trade name “Franklin Templeton Institutional.” We primarily attract new institutional business through our relationships with pension, defined contribution and management consultants, direct sales efforts and additional mandates from our existing client relationships, as well as from our responses to requests for proposals. We also market and distribute our products through various subsidiaries to institutional investors with separate accounts. A few of our subsidiaries also serve









as direct marketing broker-dealers for institutional investors for certain of our institutional funds and private equity funds, and some of our private funds may utilize third-party placement agents.

3.    Alternative Strategies

Certain of our investment advisers manage alternative investment strategies. Our alternative investment products include hedge funds, private equity funds, venture capital funds, real estate funds and commodities funds. These products employ various investment strategies, including fund-of-fund platforms; custom-tailored investment programs; private equity, private debt and infrastructure transactions in emerging markets; global macro; financial technology (FinTech); consumer loans and real estate.

4.    High Net-Worth Investment Management, Trust and Custody

Through our subsidiary Fiduciary Trust Company International (“Fiduciary Trust”), including its trust company and investment adviser subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to, among others, high net-worth individuals and families, foundations and institutional clients. Similarly, through Fiduciary Trust Company of Canada (“FTCC”), we provide services and offer products to high net-worth individuals and families and institutional clients in Canada. Fiduciary Trust offers investment management and advisory services across different investment styles and asset classes. The majority of Fiduciary Trust’s client assets are actively managed by individual portfolio managers, while a significant number of clients also seek multi-manager, multi-asset class solutions. Through our various trust company subsidiaries, including Fiduciary Trust, we may also provide trust, custody and related services, including administration, performance measurement, estate planning and tax planning.

5.    Sales, Distribution and Marketing

Our sales, distribution and marketing capabilities and efforts are critical components of our business, and may be impacted by global distribution trends and changes within the financial services industry. A significant portion of our revenues is generated from providing sales and distribution services, including asset-based fees, sales-based fees and contingent sales charges. We earn fees from the sale of certain classes of our sponsored funds at the time of purchase, with sales commissions reduced or eliminated on some share classes and for some sale transactions depending on the amount invested and the type of investor. Globally, our open-end mutual funds and certain other products generally pay us distribution fees in return for sales, distribution and marketing efforts on their behalf. Fund shares are sold primarily through a large network of independent financial intermediaries, including broker-dealers, financial advisers, banks and other third parties. We pay substantially all of our sales and distribution fees to the financial intermediaries who sell our products on our behalf.

As ofSeptember 30, 2018, approximately 1,100 local, regional and national banks, securities firms and financial adviser firms offered shares of our open-end U.S. Funds for sale to the U.S. investing public, and approximately 2,700 banks, securities firms and financial adviser firms offered shares of our cross-border Non-U.S. Funds for sale outside of the U.S.

In the U.S., our subsidiary Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. (“FTDI”) acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of shares of most of our open-end U.S. Funds. Outside the U.S., certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries provide sales, distribution and marketing services to our Non-U.S. Funds. Some of our Non-U.S. Funds, particularly the Luxembourg-domiciled Franklin Templeton Investment Funds Société d’Investissement à Capital Variable (“SICAV”), are distributed globally on a cross-border basis, while others are distributed exclusively in local markets. We earn sales and distribution fees primarily by distributing our funds pursuant to distribution agreements between FTDI or our non-U.S. subsidiaries and the funds. Under each distribution agreement with our open-end funds, we offer and sell the fund’s shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs associated with selling, distributing and marketing the fund’s shares, including the costs of developing and producing sales literature, shareholder reports and prospectuses.

The distribution agreements with our open-end U.S. Funds generally provide for FTDI to pay commission expenses for sales of our fund shares to qualifying broker-dealers and other independent financial intermediaries. These financial intermediaries receive various sales commissions and other fees from FTDI for services in matching investors with funds whose investment objectives match such investors’ goals and risk profiles. Such intermediaries may also receive fees for their assistance in explaining the operations of the funds and in servicing and maintaining investors’ accounts, and for reporting and various other distribution services. We are heavily dependent upon these third-party distribution and sales channels and business relationships. FTDI may also make payments to certain broker-dealers who provide marketing support services, as described further below. There is increasing competition for access to these channels, which has caused our distribution costs









to rise and could cause further increases in the future as competition continues and service expectations increase.

Most of our open-end U.S. Funds, with the exception of certain money market mutual funds, have adopted distribution plans under Rule 12b-1 (the “Rule 12b-1 Plans”) promulgated under the Investment Company Act (“Rule 12b-1”). In 2010, the SEC proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds. The Rule 12b-1 Plans permit the funds to pay FTDI for marketing, marketing support, advertising, printing and sales promotion services relating to the distribution of their shares, subject to the Rule 12b-1 Plans’ limitations based on average daily net AUM. The Rule 12b-1 Plans are established for one-year terms and must be approved annually by a vote of each fund’s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act. All of these Rule 12b-1 Plans are subject to termination at any time by a majority vote of the disinterested fund directors or trustees or by the particular fund shareholders. Fees from the Rule 12b-1 Plans that FTDI receives as revenues are paid primarily to third-party broker-dealers who sell our funds on our behalf.

Similar arrangements exist with the distribution of our Non-U.S. Funds where, generally, our subsidiary that distributes the funds receives maintenance fees from the funds and pays commissions and certain other fees to banks and other intermediaries.

In the U.S., most of our retail funds are distributed with a multi-class share structure which provides investors with more sales charge alternatives for their investments. Class A shares are sold with a front-end sales charge, except for when certain investment criteria or requirements are met. Class C shares have no front-end sales charges, although our distribution subsidiaries pay an up-front commission to financial intermediaries on these sales. Class C shares have a contingent deferred sales charge for redemptions within 12 months from the date of purchase. Although Class C shares are generally more costly to us in the year of sale, they allow us to be more competitive by providing a fixed percentage annual charge option. Class R and Class R6 shares, available in the U.S. as retirement share classes, also have no front-end sales charges. Class R shares are available to certain retirement and health savings plan accounts, and Class R6 shares are available to employer sponsored retirement plans where plan level or omnibus accounts are held on the books of our transfer agent. We no longer offer Class B shares to clients in the U.S.

In the U.S., we also offer Advisor Class shares in many of our Franklin and Templeton funds, and we offer Class Z shares in the Franklin Mutual Series funds, both of which have no sales charges. Advisor and Class Z shares are offered to certain qualified financial intermediaries, institutions and high net-worth clients (both affiliated and unaffiliated) who have assets held in accounts managed by a subsidiary of Franklin and are also available to our full-time employees, current and former officers, trustees and directors, and certain of their family members. We also offer money market funds to investors in the U.S. without a sales charge. Under the terms and conditions described in the prospectuses or the statements of additional information for some funds, certain investors can purchase shares at net asset value or at reduced sales charges. Our insurance product funds sold in the U.S. offer a multi-class share structure, and are offered at net asset value without a sales charge directly to insurance company separate accounts, certain qualified plans and other funds (funds of funds).

Our U.S. retirement business is conducted through divisions of FTDI that work closely with sponsors, consultants, record keepers and financial advisers of defined contribution plans, including 401(k) plans, variable annuity products and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”). We offer our capabilities to the U.S. retirement industry through a number of investment options, including sub-advised portfolios, funds, education savings plans and variable insurance product funds.

Outside the U.S., we offer share classes similar to the Advisor Class shares to certain types of investors, although depending upon the fund and the country in which the fund is domiciled, the equivalent share class may be offered on a more restrictive or less restrictive basis than the similar U.S. Advisor Class shares. We also offer additional types of share classes and unit series outside the U.S. in response to local demand based on the needs of investors in particular markets, subject to applicable regulations which may change over time. In the majority of cases, investors in any class of shares may exchange their shares for a like class of shares in another one of our funds, subject to certain fees that may apply. Our Non-U.S. Funds have sales charges and fee structures that vary by region.

FTDI and/or its affiliates may make the following additional payments to broker-dealers that sell shares of our funds:

Marketing support payments.FTDI may make payments to certain broker-dealers who are holders or dealers of record for accounts in one or more of our open-end U.S. Funds. A broker-dealer’s marketing support services may include business planning assistance, advertising, educating broker-dealer personnel about the funds and shareholder financial planning needs, placement on the broker-dealer’s list of offered funds, and access to sales meetings, sales representatives and management









representatives of the broker-dealer. FTDI compensates broker-dealers differently depending upon, among other factors, sales and asset levels, and the level and/or type of marketing and educational activities provided by the broker-dealer. Such compensation may include financial assistance to broker-dealers that enables FTDI to participate in and/or present at conferences or seminars, sales or training programs for invited registered representatives and other employees, client and investor events and other broker-dealer-sponsored events. These payments may vary depending upon the nature of the event. FTDI periodically reviews its marketing support arrangements to determine whether to continue such payments. The statement of additional information for each retail U.S. Fund, provided to investors in such funds upon request, provides a list of broker-dealers that receive such marketing support payments and the maximum payments received. FTDI may also make marketing support payments to financial intermediaries that serve as plan service providers to certain employer sponsored retirement plans in connection with activities intended to assist in the sale of our open-end U.S. Funds to such plans. Certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries may also make marketing support or similar payments to intermediaries located outside the U.S. with respect to investments in Non-U.S. Funds.

Transaction support and other payments.FTDI may pay ticket charges per purchase or exchange order placed by a broker-dealer or one-time payments for ancillary services, such as setting up funds on a broker-dealer’s fund trading system. From time to time, FTDI, at its expense, may make additional payments to broker-dealers that sell or arrange for the sale of shares of our U.S. Funds. FTDI routinely sponsors due diligence meetings for registered representatives during which they receive updates on various funds and are afforded the opportunity to speak with portfolio managers. Invitation to these meetings is not conditioned on selling a specific number of shares. Those who have shown an interest in our funds, however, are more likely to be considered. To the extent permitted by their firm’s policies and procedures, registered representatives’ expenses in attending these meetings may be covered by FTDI. Similar payments may be made by our non-U.S. subsidiaries that distribute our Non-U.S. Funds to third-party distributors of such funds.

Other compensation may be offered to the extent not prohibited by federal or state laws or any self-regulatory agency, such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). FTDI makes payments for events it deems appropriate, subject to FTDI’s guidelines and applicable law.

6.    Shareholder Servicing

We earn shareholder servicing fees as compensation from our sponsored funds for providing transfer agency services, which include providing shareholder statements, transaction processing, customer service and tax reporting. Effective November 1, 2017, the fees for our U.S. Funds changed to be based on the level of AUM and number of transactions in shareholder accounts, from the prior structure of a fixed charge per shareholder account that varied by fund type and service provided. Our subsidiary Franklin Templeton Investor Services, LLC (“FTIS”) serves as the shareholder servicing and dividend-paying agent for our open-end U.S. Funds. FTIS is registered with the SEC as a transfer agent under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Outside of the U.S., certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries provide similar services to our Non-U.S. Funds, and earn fees based on the level of AUM and/or the number of shareholder accounts.

FTIS may pay servicing fees to third-party intermediaries primarily to help offset costs associated with client account maintenance support, statement preparation and transaction processing. Such third parties maintain omnibus accounts with funds in the institution’s name on behalf of numerous beneficial owners of fund shares, or provide support for fund shareholder accounts by sharing account data with FTIS through the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation systems. The funds reimburse FTIS for these third-party payments, as well as other out-of-pocket expenses.

Summary of Products

1.    Investment Objectives Overview

We offer a broad range of products under our equity, multi-asset/balanced, fixed income and cash management investment objectives and solutions. Our investment products are offered globally to retail, institutional and high net-worth investors, which include individual investors, qualified groups, trustees, tax-deferred plans (such as IRAs in the U.S. and retirement saving plans, or RSPs, in Canada) or money purchase plans, employee benefit and profit sharing plans, trust companies, bank trust departments and institutional investors. Our products include portfolios managed for some of the world’s largest corporations, endowments, charitable foundations and pension funds, as well as wealthy individuals and other institutions. We use various investment techniques to focus on specific client objectives for these specialized portfolios.









The products that we offer accommodate a variety of investment goals, spanning the spectrum of our clients’ risk tolerance from capital appreciation (with our more growth-oriented products) to capital preservation (with our fixed income offerings). In seeking to achieve such objectives, each portfolio emphasizes different strategies and invests in different types of instruments.

Portfolios seeking income generally focus on one or more of the following securities: taxable and tax-exempt money market instruments; tax-exempt municipal bonds; global or regional fixed income securities; and fixed income debt securities of corporations, of the U.S. government and its sponsored agencies and instrumentalities (such as the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) or of the various states in the U.S. Others focus on investments in particular countries and regions.

Our alternative investment strategies, products and solutions provide our clients with alternatives to our traditional equity and fixed income products and services. Our alternative investment products include hedge funds, private equity funds, venture capital funds, real estate funds and commodities funds.

2.    Types of Products

As ofSeptember 30, 2018, our total AUM was$717.1 billionand the types of investment products we offered were as follows:

•U.S. Funds- Our U.S. funds (including U.S. registered open-end and closed-end funds, unregistered funds, exchange-traded funds and our insurance products trust) accounted for$401.2 billionof AUM. Our five largest U.S. funds and their AUM were: FCF-Franklin Income Fund ($76.6 billion), TIT-Templeton Global Bond Fund ($34.9 billion), FMT-Franklin Rising Dividends Fund ($20.1 billion), FMSF-Franklin Mutual Global Discovery Fund ($19.1 billion) and FTF-Franklin Growth Fund ($16.4 billion). These five funds represented, in the aggregate, 23% of total AUM.

•Cross-Border Funds- Our cross-border products, which are comprised of a variety of funds principally domiciled in Luxembourg and registered for sale to non-U.S. investors in 45 countries, accounted for$104.7 billionof AUM. Our five largest cross-border funds and their AUM were: FTIF-Templeton Global Total Return Fund ($16.5 billion), FTIF-Templeton Global Bond Fund ($14.8 billion), FTIF-Templeton Emerging Markets Bond Fund ($9.4 billion), FTIF-Templeton Growth (Euro) Fund ($8.8 billion), and FTIF-Franklin U.S. Opportunities Fund ($4.4 billion). These five funds represented, in the aggregate, 8% of total AUM.

•Local/Regional Funds- In addition to our cross-border products, in some countries we offer products for the particular local market. These local/regional funds accounted for$46.4 billionof AUM.

•Other Managed Accounts, Alternative Investment Products and Trusts- Our other managed accounts, alternative investment products and trusts accounted for$164.8 billionof AUM.









3.    AUM by Investment Objective and Types of Products

The following table shows our AUM by investment objective and types of investment products as ofSeptember 30, 2018:

(in billions)Investment ObjectiveU.S.FundsCross-BorderFundsLocal/RegionalFundsOther Managed Accounts,Alternative InvestmentProducts and TrustsTotalEquityAsia-Pacific$1.3$8.6$7.3$12.8$30.0Canada——4.05.39.3Europe, Middle East and Africa2.33.43.61.811.1U.S.98.910.81.63.9115.2Emerging markets13.74.65.94.418.6Global/international257.112.94.750.7125.4Total equity163.340.327.178.9309.6Multi-Asset/BalancedAsia-Pacific——0.40.20.6Canada——0.60.61.2U.S.92.92.00.220.5115.6Global/international23.18.11.39.021.5Total multi-asset/balanced96.010.12.530.3138.9Fixed IncomeAsia-Pacific—0.57.00.47.9Canada——3.32.05.3Europe, Middle East and Africa—1.40.20.92.5U.S. tax-free59.8—0.14.063.9U.S. taxable28.26.52.18.044.8Emerging markets11.111.00.513.826.4Global/international244.934.52.626.5108.5Total fixed income134.053.915.855.6259.3Cash Management7.90.41.0—9.3Total$401.2$104.7$46.4$164.8$717.1

__________________

1Emerging markets include developing countries worldwide.

2Global/international includes products that invest worldwide (including the U.S.) or only outside of the U.S.





COMPETITION

The financial services industry is a highly competitive global industry. Competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged. According to data sourced from the Investment Company Institute as of June 30,2018, there were approximately 11,300 registered open-end funds whose shares were offered to the public in the U.S., and approximately 117,300 registered open-end funds whose shares were offered to the public outside the U.S., in each case including mutual funds, ETFs and funds of funds.

We face strong competition from numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions, which offer a wide range of financial and investment management services and products to the same retail, institutional and high net-worth investors and accounts that we are









seeking to attract. We offer a broad product mix that meets a variety of investment goals and needs for different investors, and we may periodically introduce new products to provide investors with additional investment options. Due to our international presence and varied product mix, it is difficult to assess our market position relative to other investment managers on a worldwide basis, but we believe that we are one of the more widely diversified asset managers based in the U.S. We believe that our equity and fixed income asset mix coupled with our global presence will serve our competitive needs well over the long term. We continue to focus on the long-term performance of our investment products, service to clients and extensive marketing activities through our strong broker-dealer and other financial institution distribution network as well as with high net-worth and institutional clients.

The periodic establishment of new investment management firms and investment products increases the competition that we face. Many of our competitors have long-standing and established relationships with broker-dealers, investment advisers and their clients. Others have focused on, offer and market specific product lines, which provide strong competition to certain of our asset classes. In addition, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors, some with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own.

We rely largely on third-party broker-dealers and other similar independent financial intermediaries to distribute and sell our fund shares. We have pursued and continue to pursue sales relationships with all types of financial intermediaries to broaden our distribution network. We have experienced increased costs related to maintaining our distribution channels and we anticipate that this trend will continue. A failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major intermediaries who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. Additionally, competing broker-dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our investment products may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could further limit the distribution of our investment products. Any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of AUM, related revenues and overall business and financial condition.

We maintain a technology platform to compete with the rapidly developing and evolving marketplace. However, technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement new technologies or more advanced platforms for their products, which could affect our business.

We believe that we are well positioned to deal with changes in marketing trends as a result of our advertising activities and broad based marketplace recognition. In conjunction with our subsidiaries, we conduct advertising and promotional campaigns through various media sources to promote brand recognition, and advertise in major financial publications, as well as on television and the Internet, to promote brand name recognition and to assist our distribution network. Such activities include purchasing network and cable programming, sponsorship of sporting events, newspaper and magazine advertising, online and paid search advertising and social media marketing.



REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS

We are subject to extensive regulation. Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to various federal, state, and international regulation and supervision that continue to change and evolve over time. Consequently, there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environments in which we operate.

U.S. Regulation

We are subject to federal and state laws that include U.S. federal securities laws, state securities and corporate laws, and the rules and regulations promulgated by certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations such as the SEC and the NYSE. As a U.S. reporting company, we are subject to various securities, compliance, corporate governance and disclosure rules adopted by the SEC. We are also subject to various other federal and state laws, including those affecting corporate governance and disclosure, such as the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), and the USA Patriot Act of 2001. As a NYSE-listed company, we are also subject to NYSE listing and disclosure requirements.

As a global investment management organization, certain of our subsidiaries are also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, FINRA, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), the National Futures Association, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”) and the U.S. Department of Treasury, and to various securities, compliance, corporate governance, disclosure, privacy, anti-money laundering, anti-terrorist financing, and economic, trade and sanctions laws and regulations, both domestically and internationally. Given our global operations, our subsidiaries are also subject to applicable securities and other laws of various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and to various non-U.S. and cross-border rules and regulations, such as the data protection rules under the EU’s General Data









Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). Our non-U.S. operations may also be subject to regulation by U.S. regulators, including the SEC, the CFTC and the DOJ (for example with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977). We are also subject not only to the sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, but also to sanctions programs adopted and administered by non-U.S. jurisdictions where our services and products are offered. We are also subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions regarding the reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property.

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act, the CFTC and/or registered with or licensed by various non-U.S. regulators. In addition, many of our funds are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act or other non-U.S. laws. These registrations, licenses and authorizations impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on such subsidiaries and such funds. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on our registered investment adviser subsidiaries, including record keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations on the registered investment companies advised by our subsidiaries. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration. Our subsidiaries must also comply with complex tax regimes.

FINRA Conduct Rules limit the amount of aggregate sales charges that may be paid in connection with the purchase and holding of investment company shares sold through broker-dealers. The effect of the rule is to limit the amount of fees that could be paid pursuant to a fund’s Rule 12b-1 Plan to FTDI, our principal sales and distribution subsidiary in the U.S., which earns distribution fees on the distribution of fund shares in the U.S. In 2010, the SEC proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds.

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC may establish different standards for broker-dealers in their interaction with retail customers, which could increase our sales and/or distribution costs. In April 2018, the SEC proposed rules that would apply to all retail investors and would, among other things: require broker-dealers to act in the best interest of their retail customers when recommending securities and provide additional disclosure about the scope and terms of the relationship; clarify the fiduciary duty that an investment adviser owes to its clients; and require a new short-form disclosure document to inform clients of the nature of their relationships with investment professionals and investment advisers, including differences in the principal types of services offered, the legal standards of conduct that apply to each, the fees a client might pay, and conflicts of interest that may exist.

The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose other restrictions and limitations on us, resulting in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. We continue to analyze the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act as further implementing rules are adopted and become effective. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes a number of regulations governing derivative transactions, certain categories of swaps are currently required, and further categories of swaps are likely to be required, to be submitted for clearing by a regulated clearing organization and reported on a swap execution facility. These and other requirements, such as the posting of collateral for uncleared swaps, are likely to impact how we manage our investment strategies because of, among other things, an increase in the costs and expenses of utilizing swaps and other derivatives. In addition to the rulemaking mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, rules adopted by the CFTC haveremoved or limited previously available exemptions and exclusions from registration and regulation as a commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor on which we had relied, resulting in the imposition of either additional registration, disclosure, reporting and recordkeeping requirements or more stringent requirements to comply with the remaining exemptions









or exclusions for operators of certain of our registered funds and other pooled vehicles that use or trade in futures, swaps and other derivatives considered commodity interests and subject to regulation by the CFTC. Further, the SEC has adopted rules that have changed the structure and operation for certain types of money market funds, and that will require certain U.S. Funds to adopt liquidity management programs. (Compliance with certain aspects of the latter is required by December 1, 2018, and other aspects are delayed until June 1, 2019, subject to further regulatory update.) The SEC has also proposed a rule that would impose restrictions on the use of derivatives by registered funds. In addition, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted into law in the U.S. on December 22, 2017 includes various changes to the tax law, including a permanent reduction in the corporate income tax rate and one-time transition tax on certain non-U.S. earnings. We expect that the complex regulatory requirements and developments applicable to us will cause us to incur additional administrative and compliance costs.

Non-U.S. Regulation

Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to the laws and regulations of various non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. regulatory agencies and bodies. As we continue to expand our international presence, a number of our subsidiaries and international operations have become subject to regulatory systems, in various jurisdictions, comparable to those covering our operations in the U.S. Regulators in these non-U.S. jurisdictions may have broad authority with respect to the regulation of financial services including, among other things, the authority to grant or cancel required licenses or registrations. In addition, these regulators may subject certain of our subsidiaries to net capital and other financial or operational requirements.

In the U.K., the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”) and the Prudential Regulation Authorities (the “PRA”) currently regulate certain of our subsidiaries. Authorization by the FCA and the PRA is required to conduct any financial services related business in the U.K. pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The FCA’s and PRA’s rules under that act govern a firm’s capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients, and systems and controls. Breaches of these rules could result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries.

In Luxembourg, the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (“CSSF”) currently regulates our substantial activities in Luxembourg, including our subsidiary Franklin Templeton International Services S.à r.l. (“FTIS Lux”). FTIS Lux is licensed as a management company for both the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directive (“UCITS”) and alternative investment funds (“AIFs”) and, as such, it manages our Luxembourg-domiciled UCITS and our EU-domiciled AIFs. FTIS Lux’s license also covers certain MiFID (as defined below) investment services, such as discretionary portfolio management, investment advice and reception and transmission of orders in relation to financial instruments. The CSSF’s rules include capital resource, governance and risk management requirements, conduct of business rules, remuneration rules and oversight of systems and controls. Breaches of these rules could result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against FTIS Lux.

In addition to the above, our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and certain other European subsidiaries and branches, must comply with the pan-European regime established by the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”), which regulates the provision of investment services and conduct of investment activities throughout the European Economic Area (“EEA”). MiFID sets out detailed requirements governing the organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity markets and extensive transaction reporting requirements. The U.K. has adopted the MiFID rules into national legislation via the FCA rules, as have those other EU member states in which we have a presence.

A review of MiFID by the European Commission has led to the creation of a replacement directive and a new regulation (together “MiFID II”), effective as of January 2018, which extends the scope of the original MiFID in response to issues raised by the financial crisis. Changes apply to pre- and post-trade reporting obligations and there is an expansion of the types of instruments subject to these requirements, such as bonds, structured products and derivatives. A new concept of trading venue has been created and algorithmic trading is subject to specific regulations. There are also changes to conduct of business requirements, including selling practices, intermediary inducements and client categorization, as well as the provision of investment advice and management within the EU by non-EU advisers, including ours. Powers have also been given to EU national regulators to ban certain services and products and to the European Securities and Markets Authority to temporarily restrict certain financial activities within the EU.

One of the most significant developments in MiFID II is the ban on commission and other payments (“inducements”) to independent advisers and discretionary managers, which will result in a major change in the commercial relationships between fund providers and distributors. Arrangements with non-independent advisers will also be affected as narrower rules around the requirement that any commission reflects an enhancement of the service to customers come into effect, along with









a prescriptive list of permissible non-monetary benefits. The interpretation of the inducements rules has also resulted in major changes to how fund managers finance investment research with many firms, including ours, opting to pay for third-party investment research for client accounts covered by MiFID II.

The European Market Infrastructure Regulation which sets out the rules in relation to central clearing of specified derivatives came into effect in 2016 for large derivatives users (including some of our clients). For the smallest counterparties, implementation has been delayed until June 2019. Mutual recognition of central counterparties has been achieved between the EU regulatory authorities and other important jurisdictions including the U.S. In addition, rules relating to margin requirements for uncleared over-the-counter derivatives came into effect in September 2017. Future regulatory policy reviews will decide whether these rules are extended to other types of derivative instruments, which could increase operational costs for our business and transactional costs for our clients.

The EU’s Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (“AIFMD”) came into effect in July 2014 and regulates managers of, and service providers to, AIFs that are domiciled and offered in the EU and that are not authorized as retail funds under UCITS. The AIFMD also regulates the marketing within the EU of all AIFs, including those domiciled outside the EU. The introduction of a third-country passport to non-EU AIFs/AIF managers was due to be implemented in 2018 but has been delayed until further positive advice is delivered to the European Commission on a sufficient number of non-EU countries to better evaluate the impact, including the proposed withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU (“Brexit”) on the U.K. Compliance with the AIFMD’s requirements may restrict AIF marketing and imposes compliance obligations in the form of remuneration policies, capital requirements, reporting requirements, leverage oversight, valuation, stakes in EU companies, the domicile, duties and liability of custodians and liquidity management.

The EU’s Market Abuse Regulation (“MAR”) came into effect in July 2016 and its primary aim is to increase market integrity and investor protection, enhancing the attractiveness of securities markets for raising capital. Under MAR, EU market abuse rules become extra-territorial as long as the instrument has a listing on an EEA regulated market.

As of January 1, 2018, the EU regulation on packaged retail investment and insurance products (“PRIIPs”) imposes new pre-contractual disclosure requirements under the form of a Key Information Document (“KID”) for the benefit of retail investors when they are considering the purchase of packaged retail investment products or insurance based products. It requires PRIIP manufacturers to draw up a KID which can be no longer than three pages in length and must be written in simple language. The regulation allows UCITS providers, who are already required to produce the UCITS Key Investor Information Document, a transitional period of five years from enactment during which they will be exempt from its terms.

As of May 2018, the EU’s GDPR strengthened and unified data protection rules for individuals within the EU. The GDPR also addresses export of personal data outside the EU. The primary objectives of the GDPR are to give citizens control of their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international business by unifying data protection regulation within the EU. Compliance with the stringent data protection rules under the GDPR requires an extensive review of all of our global data processing systems. The failure to comply timely and properly with GDPR rules and to maintain ongoing compliance with such rules may subject us to enforcement proceedings and significant fines and costs.

Further, pursuant to ongoing efforts to encourage global tax compliance, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has adopted a global common reporting standard for the automatic exchange of financial information among participating countries (“CRS”), aimed at ensuring that persons with financial assets located outside of their tax residence country pay required taxes. In many cases, intergovernmental agreements between the participating countries will govern implementation of the new CRS rules. CRS will be implemented over a multi-year period and we will continue to monitor the implementing regulations and corresponding intergovernmental agreements to determine our requirements. CRS may subject us to additional reporting, compliance and administrative costs and burdens in jurisdictions where we operate as a qualifying financial institution.

Although Brexit negotiations between the U.K. and EU began in June 2017, it is still unclear what terms may be agreed to for the final outcome and for any transitional period. While we are monitoring the consequences very closely for our clients from an investment perspective, we believe that Brexit will not have a major impact on the way our firm operates in the U.K. Our long-standing U.K. businesses are expected to continue to provide their services to U.K. customers. Furthermore, we have other regulated subsidiaries across continental Europe such that, in the event of a future restriction on cross-border trade in financial services and products between the U.K. and the new EU, it would be likely to have a limited effect on our business. Moreover, our cross-border UCITS SICAV investment fund range, which is the most widely-distributed such range in the world, is based in Luxembourg. We have a separate, U.K.-domiciled fund range that is, and will continue to be, distributed mainly in the U.K.









In Canada, our subsidiaries are subject to provincial and territorial laws and are registered with and regulated by provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities. The mandate of Canadian securities regulatory authorities is generally to protect investors and to foster fair and efficient capital markets. Securities regulatory authorities impose certain requirements on registrants, including a standard of conduct, capital and insurance, record keeping, regulatory financial reporting, conflict of interest management, compliance systems and security holder reporting. Failure to comply with applicable securities laws, regulations and rules could result in, among other things, reprimands, suspension of or restrictions on an individual’s or firm’s registration, prohibitions from becoming or acting as a registrant, administrative penalties or disgorgement. In addition, as a federally licensed trust company, FTCC is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada and another subsidiary, FTC Investor Services Inc., is a member of and regulated by the Mutual Fund Dealers Association of Canada. These regulatory bodies have similar requirements to those of the securities regulatory authorities with a view to ensuring the capital adequacy and sound business practices of the subsidiaries and the appropriate treatment of their clients.

In June 2018, the Canadian Securities Administrators (“CSA”), the umbrella organization of provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities, published proposed amendments to their registration rules. The stated purposes of these amendments are to better align the interests of Canadian registrants with the interests of their clients, to improve outcomes for clients and to make clearer to clients the nature and the terms of their relationship with registrants. The amendments would, among other things, enhance current registrant requirements in the areas of know your client, know your product, suitability and conflicts of interest. At the same time, the CSA issued a notice providing a status report in respect of their mutual fund fee reform project. The reforms being proposed include expanded conflict of interest guidance (in the proposed amendments to registration rules) around the payment of embedded commissions by investment fund managers and the receipt of such commissions by dealers, a prohibition on all forms of deferred sales charges in connection with the purchase of mutual fund securities and a prohibition on the payment of trailing commissions to discount brokers in respect of their distribution of mutual fund securities. In September 2018, the CSA published draft rule amendments in respect of their mutual fund fee reform project.

In Singapore, our subsidiaries are subject to, among others, the Securities and Futures Act (“SFA”), the Financial Advisers Act (“FAA”) and the subsidiary legislation promulgated pursuant to these Acts, which are administered by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”). Our asset management subsidiary and its employees conducting regulated activities specified in the SFA and/or the FAA are required to be licensed with the MAS. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, codes, directives, notices and guidelines issued by the MAS may result in penalties including fines, censures and the suspension or revocation of licenses granted by the MAS.

In Australia, our subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws and are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (“ASIC”). ASIC regulates companies, financial markets and financial services in Australia. ASIC imposes certain conditions on licensed financial services organizations that apply to our subsidiaries, including requirements relating to capital resources, operational capability and controls. Failure to comply with applicable law, regulations or conditions could result in various sanctions being imposed including cancellation, suspension or variation of the licenses held by our Australian subsidiaries.

In Hong Kong, our subsidiary is subject to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (the “SFO”) and its subsidiary legislation, which governs the securities and futures markets and regulates, among others, offers of investments to the public and provides for the licensing of dealing in securities and asset management activities and intermediaries. This legislation is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (the “SFC”). The SFC is also empowered under the SFO to establish standards for compliance as well as codes and guidelines. Our subsidiary and its employees conducting any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are required to be licensed with the SFC, and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC from time to time. Failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes and guidelines could result in various sanctions being imposed, including fines, reprimands and the suspension or revocation of the licenses granted by the SFC.

In India, certain of our subsidiaries are primarily subject to relevant regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”). Effective May 2018, SEBI reduced the total expense ratio that may be charged to mutual funds. In September 2018, SEBI proposed to further reduce the total expense ratio chargeable to funds with an effective date that is not yet determined. In October 2018, SEBI banned, with some exceptions, upfront commissions payable on sales of funds and mandated that all trail commissions be paid from the funds. These changes may impact the commercial relationships between fund providers and distributors. The Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”), the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (“DIPP”) are the other major regulatory authorities that are capable of issuing directions of a binding nature to our subsidiaries. A failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes,









notices, directives, guidelines, orders, circulars and schemes issued by SEBI, RBI, MCA or DIPP may result in penalties including fines, censures and/or suspension or revocation of licenses, approvals or registration status.

In Japan, our subsidiaries are subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (the “FIEL”) and the Act on Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency (the “JFSA”), which establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEL.

There are similar legal and regulatory arrangements in effect in many other non-U.S. jurisdictions where our subsidiaries, branches and representative offices, as well as certain joint ventures or companies in which we own minority stakes, are authorized to conduct business. We are also subject to regulation and supervision by, among others, the Securities Commission of The Bahamas; the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários in Brazil; the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority; the China Securities Regulatory Commission in the People’s Republic of China; the Autorité des Marchés Financiers in France; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority in Germany; the Central Bank of Ireland; the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa in Italy; the Financial Services Commission and the Financial Supervisory Service in South Korea; the Securities Commission in Malaysia; the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores in Mexico; the Autoriteit Financiële Markten in the Netherlands; the Polish Securities and Exchange Commission; the Romanian Financial Services Authority; the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores in Spain; the Finansinspektionen in Sweden; the Swiss Federal Banking Commission; the Financial Supervisory Commission in the Republic of China; the Dubai Financial Services Authority in the United Arab Emirates; and the State Securities Commission of Vietnam.



INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We have used, registered, and/or applied to register certain trademarks, service marks and trade names to distinguish our sponsored investment products and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and in other countries and jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, Franklin®, Templeton®, Franklin Mutual Series®, Franklin Bissett®, Fiduciary Trust™, Darby®, Balanced Equity Management®, K2®, LibertyShares®and Edinburgh Partners™. Our trademarks, service marks and trade names are important to us and, accordingly, we enforce our trademark, service mark and trade name rights. The Franklin Templeton Investments®brand has been, and continues to be, extremely well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. If our brand is harmed, our future business prospects may be adversely affected.



EMPLOYEES

As ofSeptember 30, 2018, we employed approximately9,700employees and operated offices in over 30 countries. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains current and periodic reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Franklin, that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. Additional information about the Company’s filings can also be obtained at our website at www.franklinresources.com under “Investor Relations.” We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

Corporate Governance Guidelines.The Company has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.

Committee Charters.The Company’s Board of Directors has an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Directors has adopted written charters for each such committee, which are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.











