Item 1.Business.

Overview

Franklin Resources, Inc. (“Franklin”) is a holding company that, together with its various subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”), operates as Franklin Templeton Investments®. We are a global investment management organization committed to the aim of delivering strong investment performance for our clients by drawing on the experience and perspective gained throughout over 65 years in the investment management business. We believe in the value of active investment management, and plan to continue to build on our strengths while pursuing new growth opportunities. Franklin is regulated as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”), and has elected to be a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLB Act”). The common stock of Franklin is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the ticker symbol “BEN,” and is included in the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.

We offer investment choices under our Franklin®, Templeton®, Mutual Series®, Bissett®, Fiduciary Trust™,  Darby®, Balanced Equity Management® and K2®brand names. When used in this report, unless the context otherwise makes clear, our “funds” means the mutual funds offered under our brand names. In this report, words such as “we,” “us,” “our” and similar terms refer to the Company.

We provide investment management and related services to investors in jurisdictions worldwide through products that include U.S.- and non-U.S.-registered open-end and closed-end funds (“U.S. Funds” and “Non-U.S. Funds”), unregistered funds, and institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts (collectively, our “sponsored investment products” or “SIPs”). As ofSeptember 30, 2013, we had$844.7 billionin assets under management (“AUM”) with 24.2 million billable shareholder accounts worldwide. In addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, shareholder services, transfer agency, trustee, custodial and other fiduciary services, as well as select private banking services. We offer a broad range of SIPs under equity, hybrid, fixed-income and cash management funds and accounts, including alternative investment products, that meet a variety of specific investment needs of individual and institutional investors. We also provide sub-advisory services to certain investment products sponsored by other companies which may be sold to the public under the brand names of those other companies or on a co-branded basis.

The investment funds that we manage have various investment objectives designed to meet the needs and goals of different investors. Most of the investment funds we manage are registered open-end mutual funds that continuously offer their shares to investors. We also offer closed-end funds that issue a set number of shares to investors in a public









offering and the shares are then traded on a public stock exchange. Since the funds themselves do not have direct employees, to support their operations, the funds contract with separate entities, including our subsidiaries, to provide the investment management and related services they require. An investment advisory entity manages a fund's portfolio of securities in accordance with the fund's stated objectives. Investors may purchase shares of an open-end fund through a broker/dealer, financial adviser, bank or other similar financial intermediary that may provide investment advice to the investor, while investors may purchase shares of a closed-end fund on the stock exchange where the fund is traded. Financial intermediaries may earn fees and commissions and receive other compensation with respect to the fund shares sold to investors.

The business and regulatory environments in which we operate globally remain complex, uncertain and subject to change. In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), regulatory changes adopted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”) impose additional restrictions, limitations and registration and reporting requirements on our business, some of which may also affect us outside the U.S. We are also subject to numerous regulations by other U.S. and non-U.S. regulators that add further complexity to our ongoing global compliance operations. In particular, there has been a significant increase in European Union (“EU”) regulation, which has imposed and in the future may impose additional disclosure, reporting, financial and operational requirements with respect to certain of our subsidiaries and investment products and services.

We continue to focus on the long-term investment performance of our SIPs and on providing high quality customer service to our clients. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the Risk Factors discussed below in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, and other factors as discussed in this section.



Company History and Acquisitions

The Company and its predecessors have been engaged in the investment management and related services business since 1947. Franklin was incorporated in Delaware in November 1969 and originated our mutual fund business with the Franklin family of funds. The Franklin Funds are known for U.S. taxable and tax-free fixed-income funds, hybrid funds and growth-oriented equity funds. We have expanded our business, in part, by acquiring companies engaged in the investment management and/or related services business.

In October 1992, we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the investment management and related services business of Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. This acquisition added the Templeton family of funds to our organization. The Templeton funds are known for their global investment strategies and value style of investing.

In November 1996, we acquired certain assets and liabilities of Heine Securities Corporation, including Mutual Series Fund Inc., now known as Franklin Mutual Series Fund Inc. (“Mutual Series”), which provided investment management services to various accounts and investment companies. Mutual Series is known for its value-oriented equity funds.

In July 2000, we expanded our business in Korea when we purchased all of the remaining outstanding shares of a Korean investment management company, Ssangyong Templeton Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd., in which we previously held a partial interest, making us one of the largest independent foreign money managers in Korea. The company has been renamed Franklin Templeton Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd.

In October 2000, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Bissett & Associates Investment Management Ltd. (“Bissett”). Bissett now operates as part of our Canadian subsidiary, Franklin Templeton Investments Corp. With the acquisition of Bissett, we added Bissett’s family of Canadian taxable fixed-income and growth-oriented equity mutual funds to our then existing Canadian based funds (some of which we previously acquired as part of the Templeton family of funds).

In April 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Fiduciary Trust Company International (“Fiduciary Trust”), a bank organized under the New York State Banking Law. Fiduciary Trust provides investment management and related services to high net-worth individuals and families and institutional clients and is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”).









In July 2002, our subsidiary Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Private Limited (“FTAMIPL”), in which we held a majority interest, acquired all of the outstanding shares of Pioneer ITI AMC Limited (“Pioneer”). In April 2007, we completed the purchase of the remaining 25% interest in each of FTAMIPL and Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Private Limited, each located in India.

In October 2003, we expanded our private equity investment management services in emerging markets when we acquired all of the remaining outstanding shares of Darby Overseas Investments, Ltd. and all of the remaining outstanding limited partnership interests of Darby Overseas Partners, L.P. (collectively, “Darby”), in which we previously held a partial interest. Darby, based in Washington, D.C., sponsors and manages funds for institutional investors and high net-worth individuals that invest primarily in emerging markets through private equity and mezzanine finance transactions, including regional and specialized sector funds.

In July 2006, we completed the purchase of all of the remaining interests in a Brazilian investment management company, Bradesco Templeton Asset Management Ltda., in which we previously held a partial interest. The company has been renamed Franklin Templeton Investimentos (Brasil) Ltda.

In January 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of a specialty U.K. equity manager, Rensburg Fund Management Limited (“Rensburg”). Rensburg has been renamed Franklin Templeton Fund Management Limited.

In July 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of a specialty Australian equity manager, Balanced Equity Management Pty. Limited.

In November 2012, we acquired approximately69%of the equity of K2 Advisors Holdings LLC (“K2”), a fund of hedge funds solutions provider. We also agreed to acquire K2’s remaining equity interests over a multi-year period beginning in 2017.



Investment Management and Related Services

We derive our revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to our SIPs and the sub-advised products that we service. Our investment management fees, which represent a majority of our revenues, depend to a large extent on the level and mix of our AUM and the types of services provided. Sales and distribution fees, also a significant source of our revenues, consist of sales charges and commissions derived from sales and distribution of our SIPs.

Our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, including those registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Advisers Act”), subsidiaries registered as investment adviser equivalents in jurisdictions including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, The Bahamas, the United Arab Emirates, the U.K. and certain other subsidiaries.









Categories of AUM

Our fees for providing investment management services are generally based on a percentage of the market value of AUM in the accounts that we advise, the investment category of the account and the types of services that we provide for an account. As ofSeptember 30, 2013, AUM by investment category held by investors on a worldwide basis was as follows:

Investment CategoryValue in BillionsPercentage of Total AUMEquityGrowth potential, income potential, value or various combinations thereof$341.140%HybridAsset allocation, balanced, flexible and income-mixed funds137.516%Fixed-IncomeBoth long-term and short-term359.543%Cash ManagementShort-term liquid assets6.61%Total$844.7100%

Broadly speaking, the change in the net assets of our SIPs depends primarily upon two factors: (1) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities held in the portfolio of investments; and (2) the level of sales (inflows) as compared to the level of redemptions (outflows). We are subject to the risk of asset volatility resulting from changes in the global financial and equity markets. In addition, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and U.S. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on our AUM. Despite the risk of volatility, we believe that we have a competitive advantage as a result of the greater diversity of our SIPs available to our clients.

Types of Investment Management and Related Services

1.    Investment Management Services

We provide our investment management services pursuant to agreements in effect with each of our SIPs and the products for which we provide sub-advisory services. Our investment management services include services to managed accounts for which we have full investment discretion, and to advisory accounts for which we have no investment discretion. Advisory accounts for which we do not have investment discretion may or may not include the authority to trade for the account. Our services include fundamental investment research and valuation analyses, including original economic, political, industry and company research, and analyses of suppliers, customers and competitors. Our company research utilizes such sources as company public records and other publicly available information, management interviews, company prepared information, and company visits and inspections. Research services provided by brokerage firms are also used to support our findings. Our management fee on an account varies with the types of services that we provide for the account, among other things.

Our subsidiaries that provide discretionary investment management services for our SIPs and sub-advised products either perform or obtain investment research and determine which securities the SIPs or sub-advised products will purchase, hold or sell under the supervision and oversight of the funds’ boards of directors or trustees, as applicable. In addition, these subsidiaries may take all appropriate steps to implement such decisions, including arranging for the selection of brokers and dealers and the execution and settlement of trades in accordance with applicable criteria set forth in the management agreements for the SIPs, internal policies, and applicable law and practice. Our subsidiaries that provide non-discretionary investment management services perform investment research for our clients and make recommendations as to which securities the clients purchase, hold or sell. In such cases, the subsidiaries may or may not perform trading activities for the products.

Through our subsidiaries, we compensate the personnel who serve as officers of our funds, in addition to the personnel necessary to conduct such funds’ day-to-day business operations. The funds themselves do not have direct









employees. Our subsidiaries either provide or arrange for the provision of: office space, telephone, office equipment and supplies; trading desk facilities; authorization of expenditures and approval of bills for payment; preparation of registration statements, proxy statements and annual and semi-annual reports to fund shareholders, notices of dividends, capital gains distributions and tax credits, and other regulatory reports; the daily pricing of fund investment portfolios, including collecting quotations from pricing services; accounting services, including preparing and supervising publication of daily net asset value quotations, periodic earnings reports and other financial data; services to ensure compliance with securities regulations, including recordkeeping requirements; preparation and filing of tax reports; the maintenance of accounting systems and controls; and other administrative services. The funds generally pay their own expenses, such as external legal, custody and independent audit fees, regulatory registration fees, and other related expenses. The funds also share in board and shareholder meeting and reporting costs.

Most of our investment management agreements between our subsidiaries and our U.S. Funds must be renewed each year (after an initial two-year term), and must be specifically approved at least annually by a vote of each fund’s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by the directors/trustees that are not interested persons of such fund under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”), or by a vote of the holders of a majority of such fund’s outstanding voting securities. Our U.S. agreements automatically terminate in the event of their “assignment,” as defined in the Investment Company Act. In addition, either party may terminate such an agreement without penalty after prior written notice. If agreements representing a significant portion of our AUM were terminated, it would have a material adverse impact on us.

Under the majority of our investment management agreements globally, the funds pay us a monthly fee in arrears based upon the fund’s average daily net assets. Annual fee rates under our various agreements are often reduced as net assets exceed various threshold levels. Annual rates also vary by investment objective and type of services provided. Our agreements generally permit us to provide  services to more than one fund and to other clients so long as our ability to render services to each of the funds is not impaired, and so long as purchases and sales of portfolio securities for various advised funds are made on an equitable basis.

We use a “master/feeder” fund of funds structure in certain situations. This structure allows an investment adviser to manage a single portfolio of securities at the “master fund” level and have multiple “feeder funds” that invest substantially all of their respective assets into the master fund. Individual and institutional shareholders invest in the “feeder funds,” which can offer a variety of service and distribution options. A management fee may be charged either at the master fund level or the feeder fund level depending on the specific requirements of the fund, although funds also involving performance fees or carried interest will typically charge these together with management fees at the master fund level. Administrative, shareholder servicing and custodian fees are often waived at the feeder fund level and only charged at the master fund level, although the feeder funds will indirectly bear their pro-rata share of the expenses of the master fund as an investor in the master fund. Fees and expenses specific to a feeder fund may be charged at the level of that feeder fund. In the U.S., our funds of funds enter into expense allocation arrangements with their affiliated underlying funds pursuant to which the underlying funds pay certain expenses of the fund of funds.

For our U.S. Funds, our management personnel and the fund directors or trustees regularly review the investment management fee structures for the funds in light of fund performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors. Our Non-U.S. Funds, unregistered funds, institutional, high net-worth and separately-managed accounts, and the products for which we provide sub-advisory services are subject to various termination rights and review and renewal provisions. Investment management fees are generally waived or voluntarily reduced when a new fund or account is established and then increased to contractual levels within an established timeline or as net asset values reach certain levels.

2.    Sales, Distribution and Marketing

A significant portion of our revenues are generated from providing sales and distribution services. Our registered open-end mutual funds and certain other products generally pay us distribution fees in return for sales, distribution and marketing efforts on their behalf. Fund shares are sold primarily through a large network of independent financial intermediaries, including broker/dealers, financial advisers, banks and other third parties. We pay substantially all of our sales and distribution fees to the financial intermediaries who sell our SIPs to the public on our behalf.









Our subsidiary Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. (“FTDI”) acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of shares of most of our open-end U.S. Funds. Certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries provide sales, distribution and marketing services to our Non-U.S. Funds distributed outside the U.S. Some of our Non-U.S. Funds, particularly the Luxembourg-domiciled Franklin Templeton Investment Funds Société d’Investissement à Capital Variable (“SICAV”), are distributed globally on a cross-border basis, while others are distributed exclusively in local markets. We earn sales and distribution fees primarily by distributing our funds pursuant to distribution agreements between FTDI or our non-U.S. subsidiaries and the funds. Under each distribution agreement, we offer and sell the fund’s shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs associated with selling, distributing and marketing the fund’s shares, including the costs of developing and producing sales literature, shareholder reports and prospectuses, which may then be either partially or fully reimbursed by the funds.

In the U.S., we also offer Advisor Class shares in many of our Franklin and Templeton funds, and we offer Class Z shares in the Mutual Series funds, both of which have no sales charges. Advisor and Class Z shares are offered to certain qualified financial intermediaries, institutions and high net-worth clients (both affiliated and unaffiliated) who have assets held in accounts managed by a subsidiary of Franklin and are also available to our full-time employees and current and former officers, trustees and directors. In the U.S., we also offer money market funds to investors without a sales charge. Under the terms and conditions described in the prospectuses or the statements of additional information for some funds, certain investors can purchase shares at net asset value or at reduced sales charges. Outside the U.S., we offer share classes similar to the Advisor Class shares to certain types of investors, although depending upon the fund and the country in which the fund is domiciled, the equivalent share class may be offered on a more restrictive or less restrictive basis than the similar U.S. Advisor Class shares.

Some of our insurance product funds offered for sale in the U.S. offer a five-class share structure, as Classes 1 to 5, which are offered at net asset value without a sales charge directly to insurance company separate accounts, certain qualified plans and other mutual funds (funds of funds).

Outside the U.S., we offer additional types of share classes and unit series in response to local demand based on the needs of investors in particular markets, subject to applicable regulations which may change over time. In the majority of cases, investors in any class of shares may exchange their shares for a like class of shares in another one of our funds, subject to certain fees that may apply. Our Non-U.S. Funds have sales charges and fee structures that vary by region.

The distribution agreements with our open-end U.S. Funds generally provide for FTDI to pay commission expenses for sales of our fund shares to qualifying broker/dealers and other independent financial intermediaries. These financial intermediaries receive various sales commissions and other fees from FTDI for services in matching investors with funds whose investment objectives match such investors’ goals and risk profiles. Such intermediaries may also receive fees for their assistance in explaining the operations of the funds and in servicing and maintaining investors’ accounts, and for reporting and various other distribution services. We are heavily dependent upon these third-party distribution and sales channels and business relationships. FTDI may also make payments to certain broker/dealers who provide marketing support services, as described further below. There is increasing competition for access to these









channels, which has caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future as competition continues and service expectations increase. As ofSeptember 30, 2013, approximately 1,500 local, regional and national banks, securities firms and financial adviser firms offered shares of our open-end U.S. Funds for sale to the U.S. investing public, and approximately 3,600 banks, securities firms and financial adviser firms offered shares of our cross-border Non-U.S. Funds for sale outside of the U.S. In the U.S., we have approximately 90 general wholesalers who interface with financial intermediaries.

Most of our open-end U.S. Funds, with the exception of certain money market funds as well as certain high net-worth and institutional funds, have adopted distribution plans under Rule 12b-1 (the “Rule 12b-1 Plans”) promulgated under the Investment Company Act (“Rule 12b-1”). Under the Rule 12b-1 Plans, the funds bear certain expenses relating to the distribution of their shares, such as expenses for marketing, marketing support, advertising, printing and sales promotion, and may provide for the funds to reimburse such expenses that FTDI incurs in distributing the funds, subject to the Rule 12b-1 Plans’ limitations on amounts. Each fund has a percentage limit for these types of expenses based on its average daily net AUM. In 2010, the SEC proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds.

The Rule 12b-1 Plans are established for one year terms and must be approved annually by each fund’s board of directors or trustees and by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act (the “disinterested fund directors/trustees”). All of these Rule 12b-1 Plans are subject to termination at any time by a majority vote of the disinterested fund directors/trustees or by the particular fund shareholders. Fees from the Rule 12b-1 Plans that FTDI receives as revenues are paid primarily to third-party broker/dealers who provide services to the shareholder accounts and engage in distribution activities. Similar arrangements exist with the distribution of our Non-U.S. Funds where, generally, our subsidiary that distributes the funds in the local market arranges for and pays commissions and certain other fees to banks and other intermediaries, a portion of which fees is paid from maintenance or service fees received by the subsidiary from the funds and a portion of which may derive from the management fees paid to our various affiliates by the funds.

FTDI and/or its affiliates may make the following additional payments to broker/dealers that sell shares of our funds:

Marketing support payments.

Transaction support and other payments.FTDI may pay ticket charges per purchase or exchange order placed by a broker/dealer or one-time payments for ancillary services, such as setting up funds on a broker/dealer’s fund trading system. From time to time, FTDI, at its expense, may make additional payments to broker/dealers that sell or arrange for the sale of shares of our U.S. Funds. FTDI routinely sponsors due diligence meetings for registered representatives during which they receive updates on various funds and are afforded the opportunity to speak with portfolio managers.









Invitation to these meetings is not conditioned on selling a specific number of shares. Those who have shown an interest in our funds, however, are more likely to be considered. To the extent permitted by their firm’s policies and procedures, registered representatives’ expenses in attending these meetings may be covered by FTDI. Similar payments may be made by our non-U.S. subsidiaries that distribute our Non-U.S. Funds to third party distributors of such funds.

Other compensation may be offered to the extent not prohibited by federal or state laws or any self-regulatory agency, such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). FTDI makes payments for events it deems appropriate, subject to FTDI’s guidelines and applicable law.

3.    Shareholder and Transfer Agency Services

We receive shareholder servicing fees for providing transfer agency services, which include providing customer statements, transaction processing, customer service, and tax reporting. Our subsidiary Franklin Templeton Investor Services, LLC (“FTIS”) serves as shareholder servicing and dividend-paying agent for our open-end U.S. Funds. FTIS is registered with the SEC as a transfer agent under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Generally, FTIS is compensated under an agreement with each fund on the basis of an annual per account fee that varies with the fund and the type of services being provided. FTIS also is reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses. Other non-U.S. subsidiaries provide similar services to our Non-U.S. Funds, and in some cases are compensated based on AUM.

FTIS may also pay servicing fees to third-party intermediaries primarily to help offset costs associated with client account maintenance support, statement preparation and transaction processing. Such third parties: (i) maintain omnibus accounts with the fund in the institution’s name on behalf of numerous beneficial owners of fund shares; or (ii) provide support for fund shareholder accounts by sharing account data with FTIS through the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation systems. The funds reimburse FTIS for these third party payments.

4.    High Net-Worth Investment Management and Related Services

Through our subsidiary Fiduciary Trust (including its trust company and investment adviser subsidiaries), we provide investment management and related services to, among others, high net-worth individuals and families, foundations and institutional clients. Similarly, through our Canadian high net-worth business unit, Fiduciary Trust Company of Canada (“FTCC”), we provide services and offer SIPs to high net-worth individuals and families. Our high net-worth client business seeks to maintain relationships that span generations and help families plan the most appropriate method of intergenerational wealth transfer.

Individual client assets are typically held in accounts separately managed by individual portfolio managers. These portfolio managers determine asset allocation and stock selection for client accounts, taking into consideration each client’s specific long-term objectives while utilizing our macroeconomic and individual stock research.

Fiduciary Trust services that focus on managing family wealth from generation to generation include wealth management and estate and tax planning. We offer clients personalized attention and estate planning expertise in an integrated package of services known as Family Resource Management®(“FRM”). Services under FRM provide clients with an integrated strategy to optimize wealth accumulation and maximize after-tax wealth transfer to the next generation. Evaluation of third-party investment management products or services is performed by the Strategic Advisory Group, an investment advisory group within Fiduciary Trust.

5.    Institutional Investment Management

We provide a broad array of investment management services to institutional clients, focusing on foundations, endowment funds and government and corporate pension plans. Our subsidiaries offer a wide range of both U.S. and international equity, fixed-income and alternative strategies through a variety of investment vehicles, including separate accounts, open-end and closed-end funds and unregistered funds. In the U.S., we generally operate our institutional business under the trade name “Franklin Templeton Institutional.”

Through various legal entities, including our subsidiary Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC and various non-U.S. subsidiaries, we distribute and market globally the different capabilities of our various subsidiaries under our brand names. We primarily attract new institutional business through our strong relationships with pension and









management consultants, direct sales efforts and additional mandates from our existing client relationships, as well as from our responses to requests for proposals.

Our U.S. retirement business is conducted through divisions of FTDI that work closely with sponsors, consultants, record keepers and financial advisors of defined contribution plans, including 401(k) plans, variable annuity products and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”). We offer our capabilities to the U.S. retirement industry through a number of investment options, including sub-advised portfolios, funds, education savings plans and variable insurance funds.

Through our various subsidiaries, we also market and distribute our SIPs to separately-managed accounts. Our subsidiaries Franklin Templeton Financial Services Corp. and Templeton/Franklin Investment Services, Inc. also serve as direct marketing broker/dealers for institutional investors for certain of our institutional mutual and private funds.

6.    Alternative Investment Products Management

Through various subsidiaries, we offer and support alternative investment products and related management services for our clients. Our alternative investment products include, among other capabilities, private equity, hedge funds, real estate and commodities. For example, K2, a fund of hedge funds solutions provider, offers and supports alternative investments and multi-asset solutions platforms for institutional and other qualified investors. K2 provides risk management, manager selection and asset allocation capabilities in various global jurisdictions.

Darby is primarily engaged in sponsoring and managing funds that invest in private equity and mezzanine finance transactions in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Central/Eastern Europe. Darby offers these investment funds through private placements to institutional and high net-worth individual investors.

Templeton Asset Management Ltd., an investment adviser, sponsors and manages a limited number of investment partnerships that also invest primarily in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Central/Eastern Europe.

Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC, an investment adviser, manages investment partnerships that invest in funds with exposure to global real estate opportunities.

Franklin Advisers, Inc. (“FAI”), an investment adviser, manages a privately offered fund that invests in derivatives across the global equity, global government bond and currency markets. FAI creates tactical long and short positions within the fund based on a daily review of macroeconomic and valuation factors to determine the relative attractiveness of asset classes to each other as well as the attractiveness of individual factors within asset classes.

7.    Trust and Custody

Through various trust company subsidiaries, including Fiduciary Trust, we offer trust, custody and related services, including administration, performance measurement, estate planning, tax planning and private banking. We provide planned giving administration and related custody services for non-profit organizations, including pooled income funds, charitable remainder trusts, charitable lead trusts and gift annuities, for which we may or may not act as trustee. Our other subsidiaries involved in the trust business, either as trust companies or companies investing in trust companies,   have full trust powers. Our subsidiary Franklin Templeton Bank & Trust, F.S.B. (“FTB&T”), a federally chartered FDIC insured savings bank, among other functions, exercises full trust powers and serves primarily as custodian of IRAs and business retirement plans invested solely in Franklin Templeton funds. FTB&T also provides Advisor Directed Trust®, a directed trust service.

8.    Select Private Banking

Fiduciary Trust, a New York State chartered FDIC insured bank with assets of $866.3 million and deposits of $566.9 million as ofSeptember 30, 2013, provides private banking services primarily to high net-worth clients who maintain trust, custody and/or management accounts.  Fiduciary Trust's private banking and credit products include, among others, loans secured by marketable securities, deposit accounts and other banking services. Deposits generally include demand and savings deposits, primarily from our private banking clients.









Summary of SIPs

1.    Investment Objectives Overview

Our SIPs are offered globally to retail, institutional, high net-worth and separate account clients, which include individual investors, qualified groups, trustees, tax-deferred (such as IRAs in the U.S. and retirement saving plans, or RSPs, in Canada) or money purchase plans, employee benefit and profit sharing plans, trust companies, bank trust departments and institutional investors. Our SIPs include portfolios managed for some of the world’s largest corporations, endowments, charitable foundations and pension funds, as well as wealthy individuals and other institutions. We use various investment techniques to focus on specific client objectives for these specialized portfolios.

The SIPs that we offer accommodate a variety of investment goals, spanning the spectrum of our clients’ risk tolerance - from capital appreciation (with our more growth-oriented products) to capital preservation (with our fixed-income offerings). In seeking to achieve such objectives, each portfolio emphasizes different strategies and invests in different types of instruments.

Portfolios seeking income generally focus on one or more of the following securities: taxable and tax-exempt money market instruments; tax-exempt municipal bonds; global fixed-income securities; and fixed-income debt securities of corporations, of the U.S. government and its sponsored agencies and instrumentalities, such as the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or of the various states in the U.S. Others focus on investments in particular countries and regions.

2.    Types of SIPs

As ofSeptember 30, 2013, our total AUM was$844.7 billionand the types of SIPs we offered were as follows:

•U.S. Funds- Our U.S. Funds (including open-end and closed-end funds and our insurance products trust) accounted for$453.4 billionof AUM as ofSeptember 30, 2013. Our five largest U.S. Funds and their AUM were Franklin Income Fund ($80.6 billion), Templeton Global Bond Fund ($69.4 billion), Mutual Global Discovery Fund ($21.9 billion), Templeton Growth Fund ($17.2 billion) and Mutual Shares Fund ($15.3 billion). These five funds represented, in the aggregate, 24% of total AUM.

•Cross-Border Funds- Our cross-border products, which are comprised of a variety of investment funds principally domiciled in Luxembourg and Ireland and registered for sale to non-U.S. investors in 39 countries, accounted for$169.4 billionof AUM as ofSeptember 30, 2013. Our three largest cross-border funds and their AUM were FTIF - Templeton Global Bond Fund ($45.9 billion), FTIF - Templeton Global Total Return Fund ($39.0 billion) and FTIF - Templeton Asian Growth Fund ($14.5 billion). These three funds represented, in the aggregate, 12% of total AUM.









•Local/Regional Funds- In addition to our cross-border products, in some countries we offer products for the particular local market. These local/regional funds accounted for$43.5 billionof AUM as ofSeptember 30, 2013.

•Other Managed Accounts, Alternative Investment Products and Trusts- On a company-wide basis, our managed accounts, alternative investment products and trusts accounted for$178.4 billionof AUM as ofSeptember 30, 2013, of which $9.4 billion included K2 investment products and funds, and $7.7 billion included Darby products and real estate, emerging markets and certain global fixed-income investment funds.

3.    AUM by Investment Categories and Products

The following table shows our AUM by the various types of investment categories and SIPs as ofSeptember 30, 2013:





(in billions)CATEGORYINVESTMENT CLASSIFICATIONU.S.FundsCross-BorderFundsLocal/RegionalFundsOther Managed Accounts,Alternative InvestmentProducts and TrustsTotal

Equity

Asia-PacificInvests primarily in equity securities of companies located in the Asia-Pacific region$1.2$18.2$2.9$22.8$45.1

CanadaInvests primarily in equity securities of companies located in Canada——4.45.59.9

Europe, the Middle East and AfricaInvests primarily in equity securities of companies located in Europe, the Middle East and Africa2.77.26.50.516.9

U.S.Invests primarily in equity securities of companies located in the U.S.80.27.81.57.797.2

Emerging MarketsInvests primarily in equity securities of companies located in developing regions of the world6.17.23.86.924.0

Global/InternationalInvests primarily in equity securities of companies doing business either worldwide or only outside of the U.S.70.613.85.857.8148.0

Total Equity160.854.224.9101.2341.1

Hybrid

Asia-PacificInvests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies located in the Asia-Pacific region——0.85.15.9

CanadaInvests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies located in Canada——2.23.15.3

Europe, the Middle East and AfricaInvests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies located in Europe, the Middle East and Africa—1.2—0.31.5

U.S.Invests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies located in the U.S.93.42.4—24.1119.9

Global/InternationalInvests primarily in equity and fixed-income securities of companies doing business either worldwide or only outside of the U.S.2.11.90.40.54.9

Total Hybrid95.55.53.433.1137.5









(in billions)CATEGORYINVESTMENT CLASSIFICATIONU.S.FundsCross-BorderFundsLocal/RegionalFundsOther Managed Accounts,Alternative InvestmentProducts and TrustsTotalFixed-IncomeAsia-PacificInvests primarily in debt securities offered by companies and governments located in the Asia-Pacific region$—$2.9$4.6$1.7$9.2CanadaInvests primarily in debt securities of companies and governments located in Canada——3.40.53.9Europe, the Middle East and AfricaInvests primarily in debt securities of companies and governments located in Europe, the Middle East and Africa—1.50.14.66.2Tax-FreeInvests primarily in municipal bond issuers located in the U.S.67.8——4.672.4U.S. TaxableInvests primarily in taxable debt securities of companies and governments located in the U.S.40.58.72.76.458.3Emerging MarketsInvests primarily in taxable debt securities of companies and governments located in developing countries worldwide1.39.1—7.818.2Global/InternationalInvests primarily in debt securities of companies and governments doing business either worldwide or only outside of the U.S.82.686.93.318.5191.3Total Fixed- Income192.2109.114.144.1359.5Cash ManagementInvests primarily in money market instruments and short-term securities4.90.61.1—6.6Total$453.4$169.4$43.5$178.4$844.7



Financial Information About Segment and Geographic Areas

Certain financial information about the Company's business segment and geographic areas is contained in Note 18 – Segment and Geographic Information in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Regulatory Considerations

Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to various federal, state, and international regulation and supervision which continue to change and evolve over time. Consequently, there is uncertainty associated with the regulatory environments in which we operate.

U.S. Regulation

In the U.S., we are currently subject to regulation and supervision by, among others, the SEC, FINRA, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”), the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the CFTC, the National Futures Association and the New York State Department of Financial Services (“NYDFS”).

The regulatory environments in which we operate remain uncertain and subject to change. The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, impose additional restrictions and limitations on us and will likely result in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. Due to the complexity and broad scope









We also expect that FATCA will cause us to incur significant administrative and compliance costs. FATCA, which is intended to address tax compliance issues related to U.S. taxpayers holding non-U.S. accounts, will impose customer due diligence, reporting and withholding requirements on certain non-U.S. financial institutions. In order to implement FATCA globally, the U.S. Treasury has entered into various intergovernmental agreements (“IGAs”) with foreign governments, and is expected to enter into further IGAs. These IGAs takealternative approaches to implement FATCA that also may impact our business. Full implementation of FATCA and related IGAs will be phased in over a multi-year period, and additional guidance is expected over time.

To the extent that our operations or trading in our securities take place outside the U.S., we are subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulations and regulators, as well as certain U.S. regulations and regulators such as the Department of Justice and the SEC with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. It is likely that other U.S. regulations, notably those of the CFTC and under the Dodd-Frank Act discussed above, will also affect some of our non-U.S. operations.

The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on certain of our subsidiaries registered with the SEC as investment advisers, including record keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations on the investment companies that are advised by our subsidiaries. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration.

The Company and many of the investment companies advised by our various subsidiaries are subject to federal securities laws and state securities and corporate laws, including those affecting corporate governance, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the SEC. As a NYSE-listed company, we are also subject to the rules of the NYSE, including its corporate governance standards. The federal securities laws have also been augmented by other measures, including the USA Patriot Act of 2001.

FINRA Conduct Rules limit the amount of aggregate sales charges that may be paid in connection with the purchase and holding of investment company shares sold through broker/dealers. The effect of the rule is to limit the amount of fees that could be paid pursuant to a fund’s Rule 12b-1 Plan to FTDI, our principal sales and distribution









subsidiary in the U.S., which earns distribution fees on the distribution of fund shares in the U.S. In 2010, the SEC proposed changes to Rule 12b-1 which, if adopted, could limit our ability to recover expenses relating to the distribution of our funds.

In addition, in connection with our banking services, we are a bank holding company and a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the FRB and the restrictions, limitations and prohibitions of the BHC Act, as amended by the GLB Act. Significant aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act relate to changes in the regulation of banks, thrifts, holding companies and related institutions, and the imposition of various restrictions and limitations on certain activities of such entities. The Dodd-Frank Act includes a number of measures that will increase capital and liquidity requirements, impose limits on leverage, subject dividend payments, stock buybacks and other reductions of capital to heightened regulatory limitations and scrutiny, and enhance supervisory authority and regulatory oversight of non-banking entities, which may apply to our business.

FRB policy historically has required bank holding companies to act as a source of strength to their banking subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to support those subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement. Such support may be required by the FRB at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it if such support were not required by law. In addition, under FRB policy bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available from the previous fiscal year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with anticipated future needs and financial condition.

The federal banking agencies apply risk-based and leverage capital rules to evaluate the capital adequacy of bank holding companies, such as Franklin, and insured depository institutions, such as our banking subsidiaries Fiduciary Trust and FTB&T. The FRB’s capital adequacy rules applicable to Franklin, the FDIC’s capital adequacy rules applicable to Fiduciary Trust, and the OCC’s capital adequacy rules applicable to FTB&T are substantially the same. The banking agencies’ existing capital rules require Franklin and each of its banking subsidiaries to meet specific capital adequacy requirements that involve quantitative measures of our assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices.

Under the existing rules, Franklin and each of its banking subsidiaries must maintain minimum Tier 1 leverage and risk-based capital ratios of4%and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of8%. An insured depository institution is undercapitalized if it fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. Insured depository institutions such as our banking subsidiaries generally are prohibited from making capital distributions, including paying dividends, or paying management fees to a holding company if the institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Moreover, undercapitalized institutions may not accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits. Bank regulators are required to take prompt corrective action to resolve any problems associated with insured depository institutions if they become undercapitalized. The GLB Act, however, generally prohibits the FRB from imposing similar capital requirements on regulated non-bank subsidiaries of a financial holding company.

To be considered “well capitalized” under the Federal Reserve’s existing rules applicable to bank holding companies, a bank holding company must maintain a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 10%. To be considered “well capitalized” under the federal banking agencies’ current prompt corrective action rules applicable to depository institutions, Fiduciary Trust and FTB&T must each maintain the same minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% and minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 10%, as well as a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5%.

In July 2013, the federal banking agencies adopted new capital rules to implement the Basel Committee's capital framework, known as “Basel III”, for U.S. bank holding companies and banks. When fully effective, Basel III will impose a number of other changes to existing capital rules, including replacing the risk-weightings under the existing general risk-based capital rules with new risk-weightings (referred to in the new capital rules as the “standardized approach”). The new capital rules will become effective for Franklin, Fiduciary Trust and FTB&T on January 1, 2015 (subject to certain phase-in periods through January 1, 2019).

As ofSeptember 30, 2013, under existing rules, Franklin's Tier 1 leverage and risk-based capital ratios and its total risk-based capital ratio all were58%. In addition, both Fiduciary Trust and FTB&T were well capitalized as ofSeptember 30, 2013. We believe that our capital ratios calculated in accordance with the new capital rules on a fully phased-in basis substantially exceed the minimum required ratios as of September 30, 2013.









Franklin has elected to be a financial holding company under the GLB Act. Pursuant to the GLB Act, a qualifying bank holding company may elect to become a financial holding company to engage in a broader range of activities that are financial in nature, including securities underwriting, dealing and market making, securitizing assets, sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, engaging in insurance underwriting and brokerage activities and investing (without providing routine management) in companies engaged in non-financial activities. To qualify as a financial holding company, each of a bank holding company’s U.S. subsidiary banks and other depository institution subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well managed. The Dodd-Frank Act added the condition that the bank holding company itself must be well capitalized and well managed. In addition, each such subsidiary must have achieved at least a “satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) in the evaluation immediately preceding the financial holding company election. While FTB&T is subject to CRA requirements, Fiduciary Trust remains exempt from such requirements because it qualifies as a special purpose bank. Under our regulatory framework and the environment in which we operate, we are subject to significant constraints that may adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans and strategies.

The BHC Act generally requires that a bank holding company obtain prior approval of the FRB before acquiring control of any bank. In addition, the FRB may impose limitations, restrictions, or prohibitions on the activities or acquisitions of a financial holding company if the FRB believes that the financial holding company does not have appropriate financial and managerial resources. The FRB has broad authority to prohibit activities of bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries that represent unsafe and unsound banking practices or that constitute violations of law or regulation. Civil money penalties may be imposed against bank holding companies, their non-bank affiliates and officers and directors of such entities for, among other things, certain activities conducted on a knowing or reckless basis if those activities cause a substantial loss to the bank holding company.

Each of our banking subsidiaries is subject to restrictions under federal law that limit transactions between such banking subsidiaries and Franklin and/or its non-bank subsidiaries, including loans and other extensions of credit, investments, or asset purchases. These and various other transactions, including any payment of money to Franklin and its non-bank subsidiaries, must be on terms and conditions that are, or in good faith would be, offered to companies that are not affiliated with these entities. In addition, these laws and related regulations may limit the Company’s ability to obtain funds from subsidiary banks or affiliates.

The operations and activities of Fiduciary Trust and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC and the NYDFS. Certain of the subsidiaries may also be subject to oversight by various other state regulators depending upon the specific business that is conducted by the particular subsidiary. FTB&T is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. The laws and regulations of these regulators generally impose restrictions and requirements, with which we must comply, on capital adequacy, anti-money laundering, management practices, liquidity, branching, earnings, loans, dividends, investments, reserves against deposits and the provision of services.

The federal banking agencies and the NYDFS have broad enforcement powers, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject Franklin, our thrift and banking subsidiaries, as well as officers, directors and other so-called “institution-affiliated parties” of these organizations to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil money penalties. In addition, the appropriate state or federal chartering agency may appoint the FDIC as conservator or receiver for a banking institution, or the FDIC may appoint itself if certain circumstances exist.

Non-U.S. Regulation

Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to the laws and regulations of certain non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. regulatory agencies and bodies. As we continue to expand our international presence, a number of our subsidiaries and international operations have become subject to regulatory systems, in various jurisdictions, comparable to those covering our operations in the U.S. Regulators in these non-U.S. jurisdictions may have broad authority with respect to the regulation of financial services including, among other things, the authority to grant or cancel required licenses or registrations. In addition, these regulators may subject certain of our subsidiaries to net capital and other financial or operational requirements.









The Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”) and the Prudential Regulation Authorities (the “PRA”) currently regulate certain of our subsidiaries in the U.K. Authorization by the FCA and the PRA is required to conduct any financial services related business in the U.K. pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The FCA’s and PRA's rules under that act govern a firm’s capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients, and systems and controls. Breaches of these rules could result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries.

In addition to the above, our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and certain other European subsidiaries and branches, must comply with the pan-European regime established by the EU’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”), which became effective in November 2007 and regulates the provision of investment services and conduct of investment activities throughout the European Economic Area (“EEA”), as well as the EU’s Capital Requirements Directive (“CRD”).  The CRD, as amended, provides capital requirements and regulates variable remuneration (such as bonuses) paid by banks and certain investment firms.  CRD 4, effective January 2014, adds a cap on variable remuneration.  It is not yet clear whether such cap will apply to any of our EU-based operations.

MiFID sets out detailed requirements governing the organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity markets and extensive transaction reporting requirements.

The U.K. has adopted the MiFID rules into national legislation and FCA rules, as have those other EU member states in which we have a presence. A review of MiFID by the European Commission has led to the publication of a draft replacement directive (“MiFID 2”) and a new draft regulation (“MiFIR”) which are currently the subject of debate among the EU’s Parliament, Commission and Council designed to reach a final text. Implementation is not expected before the end of 2015, at the earliest. The proposals, if implemented, are likely to result in changes to pre- and post-trade reporting obligations and an expansion of the types of instruments, such as bonds and structured products, subject to these requirements. They may affect the buying and selling of derivatives by moving most derivative trading onto regulated trading venues and may control the activities of algorithmic trading. The proposals may also result in changes to conduct of business requirements including selling practices, intermediary inducements and client categorization, as well as the provision of investment advice and management within the EU by non-EU advisers, including ours. The proposals also envision giving powers to EU national regulators to ban certain products and services and to the European Securities and Markets Authority temporarily to restrict certain financial activities within the EU.

In addition, the FCA has adopted rules following its retail distribution review (“RDR” rules). These rules, which became effective on January 1, 2013, changed how retail clients pay for investment advice given in respect of all retail investment products, including open-end and closed-end funds, structured products and insurance-based savings products. In response to the RDR rules, we launched new share classes for our funds offered in the U.K., and we amended affected distribution agreements. A few other EU member states have either adopted, or are considering, a regime similar to the RDR rules.

During 2013, the first stages of the European Market Infrastructure Regulation were implemented, imposing requirements relating to risk mitigation and reporting of certain data regarding uncleared OTC derivatives transactions.  Further requirements are scheduled for next year, including transaction reporting in relation to exchange-traded and OTC derivatives transactions, the central clearing of OTC derivatives and, importantly, rules on equivalence with other derivatives reporting and clearing regimes. Given the international scale of our trading activity, the various regulatory regimes to which we are subject could result in duplication of administration and increased transaction costs.

The EU’s Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (“AIFMD”), which became effective on July 21, 2011, was implemented as required by many EU member states by July 22, 2013. AIFMD regulates managers of, and service providers to, investment funds (“AIFs”) not authorized as UCITS retail funds that are domiciled and offered in the EU. The AIFMD also regulates the marketing within the EU of all AIFs, including those domiciled outside the EU. In general, AIFMD has a staged implementation between mid-2013 and 2018. Compliance with the AIFMD’s requirements may restrict AIF marketing and will place additional compliance obligations in the form of remuneration policies (that could extend to non-EU entities that manage EU AIFs), capital requirements, reporting requirements, leverage oversight, valuation, stakes in EU companies, the domicile, duties and liability of custodians and liquidity management.









The European Commission has also published proposals to replace the Market Abuse Directive with a regulation on insider dealing and market manipulation and with an accompanying directive on criminal sanctions. There are also ongoing plans to reform the framework to which regulated firms are subject, including in relation to regulatory capital and the protection of client assets, which will have a direct effect on some of our European operations.

The most recent iteration of the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directive (“UCITS IV”), which governs authorized EU-domiciled retail funds that qualify for cross-border sale (“UCITS”), was required to be adopted into the national law of each EU member state by July 1, 2011. EU member states including the U.K., Luxembourg and Ireland have adopted UCITS IV requirements into their national legislation and regulation. However, several other EU member states are still in various stages of the adoption process. UCITS IV introduced new requirements including a requirement to provide a key investor information document (“KIID”) prior to any UCITS sale. The KIID is a two-page summary of the key aspects of each share class of a fund. There are also European Commission consultations in process that are intended to enhance retail investor protection, including UCITS V, which is intended to address, among other items, custodial liability and remuneration policies.

Recent proposals on packaged retail investment products (“PRIPs”) are to be implemented through the strengthening of MiFID standards for non-insurance PRIPs, revisions to the Insurance Mediation Directive’s selling standard for all insurance-based PRIPs and new investor disclosure requirements for all PRIPs through a separate EU legislative process. The PRIPs proposals may also require us to amend or change our KIIDs.

In addition, in September 2011, the European Commission proposed a financial transaction tax (“FTT proposal”) in the EU, which would, if approved by all EU member states, apply to all financial transactions where at least one party is established in an EU member state and either that party or another party to the transaction is a financial institution. While the specific terms of the FTT proposal remain subject to negotiation, any tax on securities transactions could likely have a negative impact on the liquidity of the derivatives and securities markets in Europe and could adversely impact our European clients’ assets and our non-European clients to the extent that they are or want to be invested in European assets.

In Canada, our subsidiaries are subject to provincial and territorial laws and are registered with and regulated by provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities. The mandate of Canadian securities regulatory authorities is generally to protect investors and to foster fair and efficient capital markets. Securities regulatory authorities impose certain requirements on registrants, including a standard of conduct, capital and insurance, record keeping, regulatory financial reporting, conflict of interest management, compliance systems and securityholder reporting. Failure to comply with applicable securities laws, regulations and rules could result in, among other things, reprimands, suspension of or restrictions on an individual's or firm's registration, prohibitions from becoming or acting as a registrant, administrative penalties or disgorgement. In addition, as a federally licensed trust company, FTCC is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada and another subsidiary, FTC Investor Services Inc., is a member of and regulated by the Mutual Fund Dealers Association of Canada. These regulatory bodies have similar requirements to those of the securities regulatory authorities with a view to ensuring the capital adequacy and sound business practices of the subsidiaries and the appropriate treatment of their clients.

In March 2013, the Canadian Securities Administrators, the umbrella organization of provincial and territorial securities regulatory authorities, released final amendments to its rules regarding registrant obligations that will require additional disclosure by registrants to their clients, including enhanced disclosure at account opening of all operating charges and fees a client may be required to pay, pre-trade disclosure of any charges a client may be required to pay, enhanced reporting on client statements that includes charges paid by the client and all compensation received by registrants in respect of a client's account and new reporting regarding the performance of investments held in the account. These new rules, which will be phased in over a three year period, will require us to make changes to our systems to comply with these new disclosure and reporting standards.

In Singapore, our subsidiaries are subject to, among others, the Securities and Futures Act (“SFA”), the Financial Advisers Act (“FAA”) and the subsidiary legislation promulgated pursuant to these Acts, which are administered by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”). Our asset management subsidiary and its employees conducting regulated activities specified in the SFA and/or the FAA are required to be licensed with the MAS. Failure to comply









with applicable laws, regulations, codes, directives, notices and guidelines issued by the MAS may result in penalties including fines, censures and the suspension or revocation of licenses granted by the MAS.

In Australia, our subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws and are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (“ASIC”). ASIC regulates companies, financial markets and financial services in Australia. ASIC imposes certain conditions on licensed financial services organizations that apply to our subsidiaries, including requirements relating to capital resources, operational capability and controls. Failure to comply with applicable law, regulations or conditions could result in various sanctions being imposed including cancellation, suspension or variation of the licenses held by our Australian subsidiaries.

In Hong Kong, our subsidiary is subject to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (the “SFO”) and its subsidiary legislation, which governs the securities and futures markets and regulates, among others, offers of investments to the public and provides for the licensing of trading and asset management activities and intermediaries. This legislation is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (the “SFC”). The SFC is also empowered under the SFO to establish standards for compliance as well as codes and guidelines. Our subsidiary and its employees conducting any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are required to be licensed with the SFC, and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC from time to time. Failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes and guidelines could result in various sanctions being imposed, including fines, reprimands and the suspension or revocation of the licenses granted by the SFC.

In India, our subsidiaries are primarily subject to relevant regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”). The Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”), the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (“FIPB”) are the other major regulatory authorities that are capable of issuing directions of a binding nature to our subsidiaries. A failure to comply with the applicable laws, regulations, codes, notices, directives, guidelines, orders, circulars and schemes issued by SEBI, RBI, MCA or FIPB may result in penalties including fines, censures and/or suspension or revocation of licenses, approvals or registration status.

In Japan, our subsidiary is subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (the “FIEL”) and the Act on Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency (the “JFSA”), which establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEL.

There are similar legal and regulatory arrangements in force in many other non-U.S. jurisdictions where our subsidiaries, branches and representative offices, as well as certain joint ventures or companies in which we own minority stakes, are authorized to conduct business. We are subject to regulation and supervision by, among others, the Securities Commission of The Bahamas; the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários in Brazil; the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority; the China Securities Regulatory Commission in the People’s Republic of China; the Autorité des Marchés Financiers in France; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority in Germany; the Central Bank of Ireland; the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa in Italy; the Financial Services Commission and the Financial Supervisory Service in Korea; the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg; the Securities Commission in Malaysia; the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores in Mexico; the Autoriteit Financiële Markten in The Netherlands; the Polish Securities and Exchange Commission; the Romanian Financial Services Authority; the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores in Spain; the Finansinspektionen in Sweden; the Swiss Federal Banking Commission; the Financial Supervisory Commission in the Republic of China; the Dubai Financial Services Authority in the United Arab Emirates; and the State Securities Commission of Vietnam.



Competition

The financial services industry is a highly competitive global industry. As of September 30, 2013, there were approximately 7,600 registered open-end mutual funds of varying sizes, and with varying investment policies and objectives, whose shares are offered to the public in the U.S., and there were approximately 66,900 registered open-end mutual funds whose shares are offered to the public outside the U.S. (in each case excluding exchange-traded funds).









We face strong competition from numerous investment management companies, securities brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions, which offer a wide range of financial and investment management services to the same institutional accounts, separate accounts, retail investors and high net-worth clients that we are seeking to attract. Competition is based on various factors, including, among others, business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships, and fees charged.

Due to our international presence and varied product mix, it is difficult to assess our market position relative to other investment managers on a worldwide basis, but we believe that we are one of the more widely diversified asset managers based in the U.S. We believe that our equity and fixed-income asset mix coupled with our global presence will serve our competitive needs well over the long term. We continue to focus on the long-term performance of our investment products, service to clients and extensive marketing activities through our strong broker/dealer and other financial institution distribution network as well as with high net-worth and institutional clients. We believe that performance, diversity of products and customer service, along with fees and costs, are the primary drivers of competition in the financial services industry.

The periodic establishment of new investment management firms and investment products increases the competition that we face. Many of our competitors have long-standing and established relationships with broker/dealers, investment advisers and their clients. Others have focused on, offer and market specific product lines, which provide strong competition to certain of our asset classes. In addition, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors, some with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own.

We rely largely on third-party broker/dealers and other similar independent financial intermediaries to distribute and sell our fund shares. We have and continue to pursue sales relationships with all types of financial intermediaries to broaden our distribution network. We have experienced increased costs related to maintaining our distribution channels and we anticipate that this trend will continue. A failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major intermediaries who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. Additionally, competing broker/dealers whom we rely upon to distribute and sell our mutual funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could further limit the distribution of our investment products. Any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of AUM, related revenues and overall business and financial condition.

We maintain a technology platform to compete with the rapidly developing and evolving marketplace. However, technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced platforms for their products, which could affect our business.

We believe that we are well positioned to deal with changes in marketing trends as a result of our already extensive advertising activities and broad based marketplace recognition. In conjunction with our subsidiaries, we conduct advertising and promotional campaigns through various media sources to promote brand recognition, and  advertise in major financial publications, as well as on television and the Internet, to promote brand name recognition and to assist our distribution network. Such activities include purchasing network and cable programming, sponsorship of sporting events, newspaper and magazine advertising, online and paid search advertising and social media marketing.



Intellectual Property

We have used, registered, and/or applied to register certain trademarks, service marks and trade names to distinguish our sponsored investment products and services from those of our competitors in the U.S. and in other countries and jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, Franklin®, Templeton®, Mutual Series®, Bissett®, Fiduciary Trust™, Darby®, Balanced Equity Management® and K2®. Our trademarks, service marks and trade names are important to us and, accordingly, we enforce our trademark, service mark and trade name rights. The Franklin Templeton Investments®brand has been, and continues to be, extremely well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. If our brand is harmed, our future business prospects may be adversely affected.













Employees

As ofSeptember 30, 2013, we employed approximately9,000employees and operated offices in 35 countries. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.



Available Information

Franklin files reports with the SEC, including current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information filed with or furnished to the SEC from time to time. The public may read and copy any of these filings at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Franklin, that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. Additional information about the Company’s filings can also be obtained at our website at www.franklinresources.com under “Investor Relations.” We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

Corporate Governance Guidelines.The Company has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.

Committee Charters.The Company’s Board of Directors has an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Directors has adopted written charters for each such committee, which are posted on the Company’s website under “Corporate Governance” and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy.



