Item 1.Business

Overview

Nucor Corporation and its affiliates (“Nucor” or the “Company”) manufacture steel and steel products. The Company also
produces direct reduced iron (“DRI”) for use in the Company’s steel mills. Through The David J. Joseph Company and its affiliates (“DJJ”), which the Company acquired in 2008, the Company also processes ferrous and
nonferrous metals and brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, hot briquetted iron (“HBI”) and DRI. Most of the Company’s operating facilities and customers are located in North America, but increasingly, Nucor is doing
business outside of North America as well. The Company’s operations include several international trading companies that buy and sell steel and steel products manufactured by the Company and others.

Nucor is North America’s largest recycler, using scrap steel as the primary raw material in producing steel and steel products. In
2013, we recycled approximately 19.2 million tons of scrap steel.

General Development of our Business in Recent Years

Nucor has employed a multi-pronged growth strategy in recent years that allows for the ability to capitalize on a variety of growth
opportunities as they arise. The five prongs of that growth strategy are: (1) optimizing and continually improving our existing operations, (2) executing on our raw materials strategy, (3) growing through developing greenfield
projects that capitalize on new technologies and unique marketplace opportunities, (4) acquiring other companies that will strengthen Nucor’s position as North America’s most diversified producer of steel and steel products and
(5) growing internationally with an emphasis on leveraging strategic partnerships and new technologies.

As part of the execution of our raw materials strategy, we have a
goal of controlling between six and seven million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes. Our 2,500,000 metric tons-per-year DRI facility in St. James Parish, Louisiana began production in December 2013. Between our existing DRI
plant in Trinidad, which we expanded in recent years to increase the annual capacity from 1,800,000 to 2,000,000 metric tons, and our new facility in Louisiana, we will be approximately two-thirds of the way towards that goal.







The DRI-making process requires significant volumes of natural gas. To ensure the new DRI
plant in Louisiana has a sustained advantage from lower natural gas costs, Nucor entered into two long-term, onshore natural gas working interest drilling programs in U.S.-based proven reserves with Encana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc.
(“Encana”) that allow us to better manage our exposure to natural gas pricing volatility and our overall energy demand for our operations. The natural gas produced by these two programs will be sold to offset our exposure to the volatility
of the price of natural gas consumed by the Louisiana DRI facility and our other operations. In December 2013, Nucor announced that we and Encana made a joint decision to temporarily suspend drilling new natural gas wells. The joint decision was
made due to the current weak natural gas pricing environment. This joint decision demonstrates the flexibility of our partnership with Encana to react to market conditions to the mutual benefit of both parties while still allowing us to better
manage our exposure to natural gas pricing volatility at our operating divisions that consume natural gas.

Growth through greenfield projects has included the construction of our SBQ steel mill in Memphis, Tennessee, which
we completed in 2009. We also began commercial production in 2009 at a new facility in Blytheville, Arkansas, which uses breakthrough Castrip®technology to strip cast molten steel into near final shape and thickness with minimal hot or cold rolling. This allows for lower investment and operating costs and
reduces the environmental impact of producing steel.

Although the pace at which we have been acquiring other companies has
slowed in the past few years, the acquisition of Skyline Steel LLC (“Skyline”) in 2012 was a notable exception. The Skyline acquisition is an important strategic investment as it pairs Skyline’s leadership position in the steel piling
distribution market with our Nucor-Yamato Steel Company (“Nucor-Yamato”) joint venture’s position as the market leader in steel piling manufacturing. To build upon the synergies in the piling market serviced by Skyline, Nucor
announced that Nucor-Yamato will be expanding to broaden its range of hot-rolled piling products. Upon completion in mid-2014, this project will add several new sheet piling sections, increasing the single sheet widths by 22% and providing a
lighter, stronger sheet covering more area at a lower installed cost.

In 2010, we entered into an agreement with
Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) to form NuMit LLC (“NuMit”), in which we own a 50% economic and voting interest. NuMit owns 100% of the equity interest in Steel Technologies LLC (“Steel Technologies”), which operates 24 sheet
processing facilities located throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico. Since our investment in NuMit began, Steel Technologies constructed a flat-rolled steel processing operation in Celaya, Mexico, that became operational in late 2012. The
125,000-square-foot facility is equipped with two slitting lines. Additionally, Steel Technologies’ new flat-rolled steel processing facility in the Bajio region of Mexico became fully operational in November 2013. These new investments will
allow us to capitalize on the rapid growth in the Mexican automotive industry.

Segments

Nucor reports its results in three segments: steel mills, steel products and raw materials. Net sales to external customers, intercompany
sales, depreciation expense, amortization expense, earnings before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, assets and capital expenditures by segment for each of the three fiscal years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2013 are set
forth in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Nucor’s 2013 Annual Report, which is hereby incorporated by reference. The steel mills are Nucor’s largest segment, representing approximately 70% of the
Company’s sales to external customers in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013.

Principal Products Produced

In the steel mills segment, Nucor produces and distributes sheet steel (hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized), plate steel, structural
steel (wide-flange beams, beam blanks, H-piling and sheet piling) and bar steel (blooms, billets, concrete reinforcing bar, merchant bar and SBQ). Nucor manufactures steel principally from scrap steel and scrap steel substitutes using electric arc
furnaces, continuous casting and automated rolling mills.







Nucor’s equity method investments in Duferdofin Nucor S.r.l. and NuMit are included in the steel mills segment. Also included in the steel mills segment are our international trading
companies that buy and sell steel and steel products that Nucor and other steel producers have manufactured. In the steel products segment, Nucor produces steel joists and joist girders, steel deck, fabricated concrete reinforcing steel, cold
finished steel, steel fasteners, metal building systems, steel grating and expanded metal, and wire and wire mesh. In the raw materials segment, the Company produces DRI; brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, HBI and DRI; supplies
ferro-alloys; and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal. The raw materials segment also includes our natural gas working interest drilling programs with Encana and Nucor’s equity method investment in Hunter Ridge Energy Services LLC.

Markets and Marketing

The steel mills segment sells its products primarily to steel service centers, fabricators and manufacturers located throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico and, increasingly, elsewhere in the world.
Nucor produces hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized sheet steel in standard grades and to customers’ specifications while maintaining inventories to fulfill anticipated orders. We estimate that approximately 65% of our sheet steel sales in
2013 were to contract customers. The balance of our sheet steel sales was made in the spot market at prevailing prices at the time of sale. The proportion of tons sold to contract customers at any given time depends on a variety of factors,
including our consideration of current and future market conditions, our strategy to appropriately balance spot and contract tons to maximize profitability, our desire to sustain a diversified customer base, and our end-use customers’
perceptions about future market conditions. These sheet sales contracts permit price adjustments to reflect changes in prevailing raw material costs and market conditions. These sheet sales contracts typically have terms ranging from six to twelve
months. Steel contract sales outside of our sheet operations are not significant.

Our plate, structural, reinforcing and
merchant bar steel come in standard sizes and grades, which allows us to maintain inventory levels of these products to meet our customers’ expected orders. In addition, our bar mill group manufactures hot-rolled SBQ products to exacting
specifications primarily servicing the automotive, energy, agricultural, heavy equipment and transportation sectors. Almost all of our plate, structural, and bar steel sales occur in the spot market at prevailing market prices.

In 2013, approximately 86% of the shipments made by our steel mills segment were to external customers. The balance of the steel mill
segment’s shipments went to our piling distributor and our downstream joist, deck, rebar fabrication, fastener, metal buildings and cold finish operations.

In the steel products segment, we sell steel joists and joist girders, and steel deck to general contractors and fabricators located throughout the United States and Canada. We make these products to the
customers’ specifications and do not maintain inventories of these finished steel products. The majority of these contracts are firm, fixed-price contracts that are in most cases competitively bid against other suppliers. Longer-term supply
contracts may permit us to adjust our prices to reflect changes in prevailing raw materials costs. We sell fabricated reinforcing products only on a construction contract bid basis. These products are used by contractors in constructing highways,
bridges, reservoirs, utilities, hospitals, schools, airports, stadiums and high-rise buildings. We manufacture cold finished steel, steel fasteners, steel grating, wire and wire mesh in standard sizes and maintain inventories of these products to
fulfill anticipated orders. We sell cold finished steel and steel fasteners primarily to distributors and manufacturers located throughout the United States and Canada.

We market products from the steel mills and steel products segments mainly through in-house sales forces. We also utilize our internal trading companies to market our products abroad. The markets for
these products are largely tied to capital and durable goods spending and are affected by changes in general economic conditions.

In the raw materials segment, we process ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal for use in our steel mills and for sale to various domestic and international external customers. We also broker ferrous and
nonferrous metals and scrap substitutes, supply ferro-alloys, and provide transportation, material handling and other services to







users of scrap metals. Our primary external customers for ferrous scrap are electric arc furnace steel mills and foundries that use ferrous scrap as a raw material in their manufacturing process.
External customers purchasing nonferrous scrap metal include aluminum can producers, secondary aluminum smelters, steel mills and other processors and consumers of various nonferrous metals. We market scrap metal products and related services to our
external customers through in-house sales forces. In 2013, approximately 13% of the ferrous and nonferrous metals and scrap substitutes tons we processed were sold to external customers. We used the balance in our steel mills.

Also within the raw materials segment are our DRI plants in Trinidad and Louisiana that produce iron inputs exclusively for use in the
Nucor mills, as well as our working interest drilling programs. All natural gas produced by the working interest drilling programs is and will be sold to outside parties, and as a result the revenues from these sales are a small but increasing
amount of our revenues.

Backlog

In the steel mills segment, Nucor’s backlog of orders was approximately $1.77 billion and $1.46 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Order backlog for the steel mills segment
includes only orders from external customers and excludes orders from our downstream businesses. Nucor’s backlog of orders in the steel products segment was approximately $1.27 billion and $1.17 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. The majority of these orders will be filled within one year. Order backlog within our raw materials segment is not significant because the majority of the raw materials that segment produces are used internally.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

The primary raw materials for our steel mills segment are ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes such as pig iron, DRI and HBI. On average, it takes approximately 1.1 tons of scrap and scrap substitutes to
produce a ton of steel. As of December 31, 2013, DJJ operated over 70 scrap recycling facilities, and our annual scrap processing capability exceeded five million tons. DJJ acquires ferrous scrap from numerous sources including manufacturers of
products made from steel, industrial plants, scrap dealers, peddlers, auto wreckers and demolition firms. We purchase pig iron as needed from a variety of sources and operate DRI plants in Trinidad and Louisiana with respective capacities of
2,000,000 and 2,500,000 metric tons annually. The primary raw material for our DRI facilities is iron ore, which we purchase from various international suppliers. Our newly constructed Louisiana DRI facility is the first phase of a multi-phase plan
that is expected to include additional operations in Louisiana.

In 2010, Nucor entered into an agreement with Encana that
involves drilling and completing onshore natural gas wells in U.S.-based proven reserves over an approximate seven-year period that began in June 2010. Nucor entered into a second and more extensive drilling agreement with Encana in late 2012 that
is projected to span more than 20 years. Natural gas produced by these working interest drilling programs is being sold to offset our exposure to the volatility of the price of gas consumed by our Louisiana DRI facility. In the fourth quarter of
2013, Nucor and Encana announced an agreement to temporarily suspend drilling new natural gas wells given current expectations that the natural gas pricing environment will be weak in 2014. By the middle of 2014, all in-process wells will be
completed. At that point, there will be over 300 producing wells providing enough natural gas to cover our Louisiana DRI plant’s expected consumption into 2015. In addition to our natural gas needs at the new DRI facility, Nucor is also a
substantial consumer of natural gas at our steel mill operations. Once drilling resumes, the drilling of natural gas wells under the two agreements is expected to be sufficient to cover Nucor’s demand at all of its steel mills in the United
States plus the demand of two DRI plants or, alternatively, at three DRI plants.

The primary raw material for our steel
products segment is steel produced by Nucor’s steel mills.

DJJ generally purchases ferrous and nonferrous scrap for sale
to external customers from the same variety of sources it purchases ferrous scrap for use as a raw material in Nucor’s steel mills. DJJ does not purchase a significant amount of scrap metal from a single source or from a limited number of major
sources. The







availability and price of ferrous scrap are affected by changes in the global supply and demand for steel and steel products. Ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes are our single largest cost of
products sold. A key part of our business strategy is to control a significant portion of the supply of high quality metallics needed to operate our steel mills.

Energy Consumption and Costs

Our steel mills are large consumers of
electricity and natural gas. Our DRI facilities in Trinidad and Louisiana are large consumers of natural gas. Consequently, we use a variety of strategies to manage our exposure to price risk of natural gas, including cash flow hedges and our
natural gas working interest drilling programs.

Historically, manufacturers in the United States have benefitted from
relatively stable and competitive energy costs that have allowed them to compete on an equal footing in the increasingly global marketplace. The availability and prices of electricity and natural gas are influenced today, however, by many factors
including changes in supply and demand, advances in drilling technology and, increasingly, changes in public policy relating to energy production and use. Because energy is such a significant cost of products sold for Nucor, we strive continually to
make our operations in all three of our business segments more energy efficient. We also closely monitor developments in public policy relating to energy production and consumption. When appropriate, we work to shape those developments in ways that
we believe will allow us to continue to be a competitive producer of steel and steel products in an increasingly competitive global marketplace.

Competition

We compete in a variety of steel and metal markets, including
markets for finished steel products, unfinished steel products and raw materials. These markets are highly competitive with many domestic and foreign firms participating, and, as a result of this highly competitive environment, we find that we
primarily compete on price and service.

Our electric arc furnace steel mills face many different forms of competition,
including integrated steel producers (who use iron ore converted into liquid form in a blast furnace as their basic raw material instead of scrap steel), other electric arc furnace mills, foreign imports and alternative materials. Large integrated
steel producers have the ability to manufacture a wide variety of products but face significantly higher energy costs and are often burdened with higher capital and fixed operating costs. Electric arc furnace mill producers such as Nucor are
sensitive to increases in scrap prices but tend to have lower capital and fixed operating costs compared with integrated steel producers.

Over the last few years, Nucor has experienced increased competition stemming from significant excess capacity, both domestic and foreign. Although there were no noteworthy additions to domestic capacity
in 2013, oversupply is still a significant issue. While steel imports decreased slightly from 2012, the overall level of finished and semi-finished steel imports is still extremely high at 30% of the U.S. steel market. These artificially-priced
imports make it very difficult for Nucor to maintain sales prices and profit levels.

Competition from foreign steel and steel
product producers presents unique challenges for us. Imported steel and steel products often benefit from government subsidies, either directly or indirectly through government-owned enterprises or government-owned or controlled financial
institutions. In particular, competition from steel imported from China, which accounts for more than 45% of the steel produced annually in the world, is a major challenge. We believe that Chinese producers, many of whom are government-owned in
whole or in part, benefit from their government’s manipulation of foreign currency exchange rates and from the receipt of government subsidies, which allow them to sell their products below cost. These distorting trade practices are widely
recognized as being unfair and have been challenged successfully as violating world trade rules. Examples of successful challenges include the imposition of antidumping duty orders on imports of line pipe, oil country tubular goods, rebar,
cut-to-length plate and hot-rolled sheet from China.







China’s aggressive trade practices, left unchallenged, seriously undermine the ability
of Nucor and other domestic producers to compete on price. China’s artificially lowered production costs have significantly contributed to the exodus of manufacturing jobs from the United States. When such an exodus occurs, the U.S. economy is
weakened and Nucor’s customer base is diminished. Rigorous trade law enforcement is critical to our ability to maintain our competitive position against foreign producers that engage in unlawful trade practices. Nucor has been active in calling
on policymakers to enforce global trade agreements and address the jobs crisis in the United States.

We also experience
competition from other materials. Depending on our customers’ end use of our products, there are sometimes other materials, such as concrete, aluminum, plastics, composites and wood that compete with our steel products. When the price of steel
relative to other raw materials rises, these alternatives become more attractive to our customers.

Competition in our scrap
and raw materials business is also vigorous. The scrap metals market consists of many firms and is highly fragmented. Firms typically compete on price and geographic proximity to the sources of scrap metal.

Environmental Laws and Regulations

Our business operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations intended to protect the environment. The principal federal environmental laws include the Clean Air Act
(“CAA”) that regulates air emissions; the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) that regulates water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) that addresses solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and
disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) that governs releases of, and remediation of, sites contaminated by hazardous substances. Our operations are also subject to state laws and
regulations that are patterned on these and other federal laws.

We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the
provisions of all federal and state environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business operations. However, both federal and state laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, making compliance with them increasingly
expensive and burdensome. In many instances the total costs of compliance are not readily quantifiable because compliance is so engrained in our operating philosophy that these costs are simply considered part of our standard operating
procedures.

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) has proposed or promulgated many new
national ambient air quality standards and toxic air emissions rules for which it has recently or not yet issued guidance or compliance deadlines. While we begin immediately to plan for compliance with such standards and rules, we cannot fully
assess their impact on our operations until the guidance has been fully developed or issued and compliance deadlines have been established. In other cases where environmental regulations are proposed or promulgated that may regulate previously
unregulated aspects of our operations, it is impossible for us to fully determine the impact of these regulations until protracted legal challenges have been concluded and USEPA or other regulatory agencies have developed and issued technical
guidance. Despite this atmosphere of regulatory uncertainty, at this time we do not believe that compliance with these new environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial
condition.

The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program administered
by the states with civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. Each of our steel mills is required to operate in compliance with its permit or potentially incur sanctions for failing to do so. Because of the size of our steelmaking operations,
they are subject to new “Greenhouse Gasses” (“GHGs”) regulations and are required to do GHG Best Available Control Technology (“BACT”) evaluations when their permits are modified. There is still uncertainty and very
little guidance from USEPA as to what is or may be considered GHG BACT for steelmaking operations. Our operations are currently properly permitted, and we will not need to make these determinations unless and until these permits are modified. Based
on current guidance, we do not expect these requirements to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.







Nucor uses electric arc furnaces (“EAF”) to recycle scrap metal into new steel
products. These EAFs use electricity as their primary source of energy. As the new GHG regulations, air toxics rules and other new environmental regulations are imposed on electric utilities, it is reasonable to expect that the cost of
electricity produced by these utilities will increase. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for more information about the potential impact of GHG regulations on Nucor’s business.

The CWA regulates water discharges and withdrawals. Nucor maintains discharge and withdrawal permits as appropriate at its facilities
under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the CWA and conducts its operations in compliance with those permits. Nucor also maintains permits from local governments for the discharge of water into publicly owned
treatment works where available.

RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. RCRA also
addresses the environmental impact of contamination from waste disposal activities and from recycling of and storage of most wastes. While Nucor believes it is in substantial compliance with these regulations, past waste disposal activities that
were legal when conducted but now may pose a contamination threat are periodically discovered. These and off-site properties that USEPA has determined are contaminated, for which Nucor may be potentially responsible at some level, are quickly
evaluated and corrected. While Nucor has conducted and is in the final stages of completing some cleanups under RCRA, these liabilities either are identified already and being resolved or have been fully resolved.

Because Nucor long ago implemented environmental practices that have resulted in the responsible disposal of waste materials, Nucor is
also not presently considered a major contributor to any major cleanups under CERCLA for which Nucor has been named a potentially responsible party. Nucor continually evaluates these types of potential liabilities and, if appropriate, maintains
reserves sufficient to remediate the identified liabilities. Under RCRA, private citizens may also bring an action against the operator of a regulated facility for potential damages and payment of cleanup costs. Nucor is confident that its
system of internal evaluation and due diligence has sufficiently identified these types of potential liabilities so that compliance with these regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial
condition beyond that already reflected in the reserves established for them.

The primary raw material of Nucor’s
steelmaking operations is scrap metal. The process of recycling scrap metal brings with it many contaminants such as paint, zinc, chrome and other metals that produce air emissions which are captured in specialized emission control equipment. This
filtrant (EAF dust) is classified as a listed hazardous waste under the RCRA. Because these contaminants contain valuable metals, this filtrant is recycled to recover those metals. Nucor sends all but a small fraction of the EAF dust it produces to
recycling facilities that recover the zinc, lead, chrome and other valuable metals from this dust. By recycling this material, Nucor is not only acting in a sustainable, responsible manner but is also substantially limiting its potential for
future liability under both CERCLA and RCRA.

Nucor operates an aggressive and sustainable environmental program that
incorporates the concept of individual employee as well as management responsibility for environmental performance. All of Nucor’s steelmaking operations are ISO 14001 certified. Achieving ISO 14001 certification means that each of
Nucor’s steel mills has put an environmental management system in place with measurable targets and objectives, such as reducing the use of oil and grease and minimizing electricity use, and has implemented site-wide recycling programs. These
environmental management systems make environmental commitment each Nucor teammate’s responsibility. Nucor’s environmental program maintains a high level of training, commitment, outreach and visibility.

Capital expenditures at our facilities that are associated with environmental regulation compliance for 2014 and 2015 are estimated to be
less than $100 million per year.

Employees

Nucor has a simple, streamlined organizational structure to allow our employees to make quick decisions and be innovative. Our organization is highly decentralized, with most day-to-day operating
decisions made by our division general managers and their staff. We have fewer than 100 employees in our executive office. The majority of Nucor’s 22,300 employees are not represented by labor unions.







Available Information

Nucor’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, are available on our website at www.nucor.com, as soon as
reasonably practicable after Nucor files these reports electronically with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as otherwise stated in these reports, the information contained on our website or
available by hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.



