Item 1.Business

Overview

Nucor Corporation and its affiliates (“Nucor,” the “Company” or “we”) manufacture steel and steel products.
The Company also produces direct reduced iron (“DRI”) for use in the Company’s steel mills. Through The David J. Joseph Company and its affiliates (“DJJ”), the Company also processes ferrous and nonferrous metals and brokers
ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, hot briquetted iron (“HBI”) and DRI. Most of the Company’s operating facilities and customers are located in North America, but Nucor is doing business outside of North America as well. The
Company’s operations include several international trading companies that buy and sell steel and steel products manufactured by the Company and others.

Nucor is North America’s largest recycler, using scrap steel as the primary raw material in producing steel and steel products. In 2014, we recycled approximately 19.0 million tons of scrap
steel.

General Development of our Business in Recent Years

Nucor has invested significant capital in recent years to improve our cost structure and expand our product portfolios to include more value-added, higher margined offerings. Our investments total nearly
$6 billion during the last six years, with approximately two-thirds going to capital expenditures and one-third going to acquisitions. The Company believes that this focus on lowering cost will enable us to execute on our strategy of delivering
profitable growth and expanding our product mix and market diversity will make us less susceptible to imports.

A major
emphasis of our cost improvement plan is on reducing our raw materials cost. We have a goal of controlling between six and seven million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes so that we can better control both the cost and
reliable sourcing of these raw materials. Our 2,500,000 metric tons-per-year DRI facility in St. James Parish, Louisiana began production in December 2013. Between the DRI plant in Trinidad with an annual capacity of 2,000,000 metric tons and our
new facility in Louisiana, we will be approximately two-thirds of the way towards that goal when the Louisiana facility is fully operational. Our DRI plant in St. James Parish, Louisiana produced excellent quality DRI through the first ten
months of 2014. However, the plant experienced operational challenges in 2014 as it went through several outages to make changes intended to improve consistency in the production process and yield performance. In November, the plant’s process
gas heater experienced a failure, leading to the immediate suspension of production operations. Due to the lead times on the specialty steel pipes that must be replaced, we estimate that the Louisiana DRI plant will be operational again late in the
first quarter of 2015.

The DRI production process requires significant volumes of natural gas. To ensure the DRI plant in
Louisiana has a sustained advantage from lower natural gas costs, Nucor entered into two long-term, onshore natural gas working interest drilling programs in U.S.-based proven reserves with Encana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc. (“Encana”)
that allow us to better manage our exposure to natural gas pricing volatility and our overall energy demand for our operations. The natural gas produced by these two programs is sold to third parties to offset our exposure to the volatility of the
price of natural gas consumed by the Louisiana DRI facility and our other operations. In December 2013, Nucor made a joint decision with Encana to temporarily suspend drilling new natural gas wells. The joint decision was made due to the
then-current expectation that the natural gas pricing environment would be weak in 2014. In the fourth quarter of 2014, Nucor and Encana agreed to further suspend drilling through calendar year 2015, except for a de minimis number of wells that are
necessary in order to retain leasehold rights. We believe this joint decision demonstrates the flexibility of our partnership with Encana to react to market conditions to the mutual benefit of both parties while still allowing us to better manage
our exposure to natural gas pricing volatility at our operating divisions that consume natural gas.

Of the approximately $4
billion that has been spent since 2009 on capital expenditures, the main focus of that spending has been on projects that further our raw materials and value-added product diversification







Nucor’s steel mills segment has also grown significantly in recent years through
the acquisitions of Gallatin Steel Company (“Gallatin”) and Skyline Steel LLC (“Skyline”). Nucor acquired Gallatin in 2014 for a cash purchase price of $779 million. Located on the Ohio River in Ghent, Kentucky, Gallatin has an
annual sheet steel production capacity of approximately 1,800,000 tons. This acquisition is strategically important as it expands Nucor’s footprint in the Midwestern United States market, and it broadens Nucor’s product offerings in the
pipe and tube market. The acquisition of Skyline in 2012 for $675 million was an important strategic investment as it paired Skyline’s leadership position in the steel piling distribution market with our Nucor-Yamato Steel Company
(“Nucor-Yamato”) joint venture’s position as the market leader in steel piling manufacturing. To build upon the synergies in the piling market serviced by Skyline, Nucor-Yamato has invested $115 million in a project to broaden its
range of hot-rolled piling products. Completed in the second half of 2014, this project added several new sheet piling sections, which expanded our product offerings to include wider piling sections that are lighter and stronger, covering more area
at a lower installed cost.

Segments

Nucor reports its results in three segments: steel mills, steel products and raw materials. Net sales to external customers, intercompany sales, depreciation expense, amortization expense, earnings before
income taxes and noncontrolling interests, assets and capital expenditures by segment for each of the three fiscal years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 are set forth in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Nucor’s 2014 Annual Report, which is incorporated by reference. The steel mills are Nucor’s largest segment, representing approximately 70% of the Company’s sales to external customers in the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2014.

Principal Products Produced

In the steel mills segment, Nucor produces and distributes sheet steel (hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized), plate steel, structural steel (wide-flange beams, beam blanks, H-piling and sheet piling)
and bar steel (blooms, billets, concrete reinforcing bar, merchant bar, wire rod and SBQ). Nucor manufactures steel principally from scrap steel and scrap steel substitutes using electric arc furnaces, continuous casting and automated rolling mills.
Nucor’s equity method investments in Duferdofin Nucor S.r.l. and NuMit LLC are included in the steel mills segment. Also included in the steel mills segment are our distribution and international trading companies that buy and sell steel and
steel products that Nucor and other steel producers have manufactured. In the steel products segment, Nucor produces steel joists and joist girders, steel deck, fabricated concrete reinforcing steel,







cold finished steel, steel fasteners, metal building systems, steel grating and expanded metal, and wire and wire mesh. In the raw materials segment, the Company produces DRI; brokers ferrous and
nonferrous metals, pig iron, HBI and DRI; supplies ferro-alloys; and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal. The raw materials segment also includes our natural gas working interest drilling programs with Encana and Nucor’s equity method
investment in Hunter Ridge Energy Services LLC.

Markets and Marketing

The steel mills segment sells its products primarily to steel service centers, fabricators and manufacturers located throughout the United
States, Canada, Mexico and elsewhere in the world. Nucor produces hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized sheet steel in standard grades and to customers’ specifications while maintaining inventories to fulfill anticipated orders. We estimate
that approximately 50% of our sheet steel sales in 2014 were to contract customers. The balance of our sheet steel sales was made in the spot market at prevailing prices at the time of sale. The proportion of tons sold to contract customers at any
given time depends on a variety of factors, including our consideration of current and future market conditions, our strategy to appropriately balance spot and contract tons to maximize profitability, our desire to sustain a diversified customer
base, and our end-use customers’ perceptions about future market conditions. These sheet sales contracts permit price adjustments to reflect changes in the current market-based indices and/or raw material costs near the time of shipment. These
sheet sales contracts typically have terms ranging from six to twelve months. Steel contract sales outside of our sheet operations are not significant.

Our plate, structural, reinforcing and merchant bar steel come in standard sizes and grades, which allows us to maintain inventory levels of these products to meet our customers’ expected orders. In
addition, our bar mill group manufactures hot-rolled SBQ products to exacting specifications primarily servicing the automotive, energy, agricultural, heavy equipment and transportation sectors. Almost all of our plate, structural, rebar, merchant
bar and SBQ steel sales occur in the spot market at prevailing market prices.

In 2014, approximately 85% of the shipments
made by our steel mills segment were to external customers. The balance of the steel mills segment’s shipments went to our piling distributor and our downstream joist, deck, rebar fabrication, fastener, metal buildings and cold finish
operations.

In the steel products segment, we sell steel joists and joist girders, and steel deck to general contractors and
fabricators located throughout the United States and Canada. We make these products to the customers’ specifications and do not maintain inventories of these finished steel products. The majority of these contracts are firm, fixed-price
contracts that are in most cases competitively bid against other suppliers. Longer-term supply contracts may or may not permit us to adjust our prices to reflect changes in prevailing raw materials costs. We sell and install fabricated reinforcing
products only on a construction contract bid basis. These products are used by contractors in constructing highways, bridges, reservoirs, utilities, hospitals, schools, airports, stadiums and high-rise buildings. We manufacture cold finished steel,
steel fasteners, steel grating, wire and wire mesh in standard sizes and maintain inventories of these products to fulfill anticipated orders. We sell cold finished steel and steel fasteners primarily to distributors and manufacturers located
throughout the United States and Canada.

We market products from the steel mills and steel products segments mainly through
in-house sales forces. We also utilize our internal distribution and trading companies to market our products abroad. The markets for these products are largely tied to capital and durable goods spending and are affected by changes in general
economic conditions.

In the raw materials segment, we process ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal for use in our steel mills
and for sale to various domestic and international external customers. We also broker ferrous and nonferrous metals and scrap substitutes, supply ferro-alloys, and provide transportation, material handling and other services to users of scrap
metals. Our primary external customers for ferrous scrap are electric arc furnace steel mills and foundries that use ferrous scrap as a raw material in their manufacturing process. External customers purchasing nonferrous scrap metal include
aluminum can producers, secondary aluminum smelters, steel mills and other







processors and consumers of various nonferrous metals. We market scrap metal products and related services to our external customers through in-house sales forces. In 2014, approximately 14% of
the ferrous and nonferrous metals and scrap substitutes tons we processed were sold to external customers. We used the balance in our steel mills.

Also within the raw materials segment are our DRI plants in Trinidad and Louisiana that produce iron inputs exclusively for use in the Nucor mills, as well as our natural gas working interest drilling
programs. All natural gas produced by the working interest drilling programs is and will be sold to outside parties, and as a result the revenues from these sales are a small but increasing amount of our revenues.

Backlog

In the steel
mills segment, Nucor’s backlog of orders was approximately $1.56 billion and $1.77 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Order backlog for the steel mills segment includes only orders from external customers and excludes
orders from our downstream businesses. Nucor’s backlog of orders in the steel products segment was approximately $1.49 billion and $1.27 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The majority of these orders will be filled
within one year. Order backlog within our raw materials segment is not significant because the majority of the raw materials that segment produces are used internally.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

The primary raw materials for
our steel mills segment are ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes such as pig iron, DRI and HBI. On average, it takes approximately 1.1 tons of scrap and scrap substitutes to produce a ton of steel. As of December 31, 2014, DJJ operated over 70
scrap recycling facilities, and our annual scrap processing capability exceeded five million tons. DJJ acquires ferrous scrap from numerous sources including manufacturers of products made from steel, industrial plants, scrap dealers, peddlers, auto
wreckers and demolition firms. We purchase pig iron as needed from a variety of sources and operate DRI plants in Trinidad and Louisiana with respective capacities of 2,000,000 and 2,500,000 metric tons annually. The primary raw material for our DRI
facilities is iron ore, which we purchase from various international suppliers. Our newly constructed Louisiana DRI facility is the first phase of a multi-phase site development plan opportunity in Louisiana.

The primary raw material for our steel products segment is steel produced by Nucor’s steel mills.

DJJ generally purchases ferrous and nonferrous scrap for sale to external customers from the same variety of sources it purchases ferrous
scrap for use as a raw material in Nucor’s steel mills. DJJ does not purchase a significant amount of scrap metal from a single source or from a limited number of major sources. The







availability and price of ferrous scrap are affected by changes in the global supply and demand for steel and steel products. Ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes are our single largest cost of
products sold. A key part of our business strategy is to control a significant portion of the supply of high quality metallics needed to operate our steel mills.

Energy Consumption and Costs

Our steel mills are large consumers of
electricity and natural gas. Our DRI facilities in Trinidad and Louisiana are also large consumers of natural gas. Consequently, we use a variety of strategies to manage our exposure to price risk of natural gas, including cash flow hedges and our
natural gas working interest drilling programs.

Historically, manufacturers in the United States have benefited from
relatively stable and competitive energy costs that have allowed them to compete on an equal footing in the increasingly global marketplace. The availability and prices of electricity and natural gas are influenced today, however, by many factors
including changes in supply and demand, advances in drilling technology and, increasingly, changes in public policy relating to energy production and use. Because energy is such a significant cost of products sold for Nucor, we strive continually to
make our operations in all three of our business segments more energy efficient. We also closely monitor developments in public policy relating to energy production and consumption. When appropriate, we work to shape those developments in ways that
we believe will allow us to continue to be a competitive producer of steel and steel products in an increasingly competitive global marketplace.

Competition

We compete in a variety of steel and metal markets, including
markets for finished steel products, unfinished steel products and raw materials. These markets are highly competitive with many domestic and foreign firms participating, and, as a result of this highly competitive environment, we find that we
primarily compete on price and service.

Our electric arc furnace steel mills face many different forms of competition,
including integrated steel producers (who use iron ore converted into liquid form in a blast furnace as their basic raw material instead of scrap steel), other electric arc furnace mills, foreign imports and alternative materials. Large integrated
steel producers have the ability to manufacture a wide variety of products but face significantly higher energy costs and are often burdened with higher capital and fixed operating costs. Electric arc furnace mill producers such as Nucor are
sensitive to increases in scrap prices but tend to have lower capital and fixed operating costs compared with integrated steel producers.

Overproduction in global steelmaking capacity continues to be a significant challenge for Nucor and the entire U.S. steel industry. With the U.S. economy performing better than most other economies
around the world, the U.S. steel market is the destination of choice for global steel producers. In 2014, total steel imports increased 38% compared with 2013, and imports of finished and semi-finished steel products accounted for 34% of U.S.
market share last year. Imports increased from nearly every steel-producing country and in virtually every category of steel products. These imports, which are sometimes artificially-priced, make it very difficult for Nucor to maintain sales prices
and profit levels.

Competition from foreign steel and steel product producers presents unique challenges for us. Imported
steel and steel products often benefit from government subsidies, either directly or indirectly through government-owned enterprises or government-owned or controlled financial institutions. China, which accounts for almost half of the steel
produced annually in the world, is the prime example of how foreign governments impact the global steel market. Nucor believes that Chinese producers, many of which are government-owned in whole or in part, benefit from their government’s
manipulation of foreign currency exchange rates and from the receipt of government subsidies, which allow them to sell their products below cost. Other foreign governments utilize similar tactics to artificially lower their steel production costs.
These distorting trade practices are widely







recognized as being unfair and have been challenged successfully as violating world trade rules. The U.S. government recently completed several successful trade enforcement actions, including
terminating its suspension agreement with Russia for hot-rolled steel imports; assessing duties on oil country tubular goods from South Korea and five other countries; and ruling that the domestic rebar industry has been materially injured as a
result of dumped and subsidized rebar imports from Turkey and Mexico.

Aggressive trade practices, left unchallenged,
seriously undermine the ability of Nucor and other domestic producers to compete on price. Competition from countries with subsidized production costs has significantly contributed to the exodus of manufacturing jobs from the United States. When
such an exodus occurs, the U.S. economy is weakened and Nucor’s customer base is diminished. Rigorous trade law enforcement is critical to our ability to maintain our competitive position against foreign producers that engage in unlawful trade
practices. Nucor has been active in calling on policymakers to enforce global trade agreements.

We also experience
competition from other materials. Depending on our customers’ end use of our products, there are sometimes other materials, such as concrete, aluminum, plastics, composites and wood that compete with our steel products. When the price of steel
relative to other raw materials rises, these alternatives become more attractive to our customers.

Competition in our scrap
and raw materials business is also vigorous. The scrap metals market consists of many firms and is highly fragmented. Firms typically compete on price and geographic proximity to the sources of scrap metal.

Environmental Laws and Regulations

Our business operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations intended to protect the environment. The principal federal environmental laws include the Clean Air Act
(“CAA”) that regulates air emissions; the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) that regulates water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) that addresses solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and
disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) that governs releases of, and remediation of, sites contaminated by hazardous substances. Our operations are also subject to state laws and
regulations that are patterned on these and other federal laws.

We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the
provisions of all federal and state environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business operations. However, both federal and state laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, making compliance with them increasingly
expensive and burdensome. In many instances the total costs of compliance are not readily quantifiable because compliance is so engrained in our operating philosophy that these costs are simply considered part of our standard operating procedures.

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) has proposed or promulgated many new national ambient
air quality standards and toxic air emissions rules for which it has recently or not yet issued guidance or compliance deadlines. While we begin immediately to plan for compliance with such standards and rules, we cannot fully assess their impact on
our operations until the guidance has been fully developed or issued and compliance deadlines have been established. In other cases where environmental regulations are proposed or promulgated that may regulate previously unregulated aspects of our
operations, it is impossible for us to fully determine the impact of these regulations until protracted legal challenges have been concluded and USEPA or other regulatory agencies have developed and issued technical guidance. Despite this atmosphere
of regulatory uncertainty, at this time we do not believe that compliance with these new environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program administered by the states with
civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. Each of our steel mills is required to operate in compliance with its permit or potentially incur sanctions for failing to do so. Because of the size of our steelmaking operations, they are subject to new
“Greenhouse Gasses” (“GHGs”) regulations and are required to







do GHG Best Available Control Technology (“BACT”) evaluations when their permits are modified. There is still uncertainty and very little guidance from USEPA as to what is or may be
considered GHG BACT for steelmaking operations. Our operations are currently properly permitted, and we will not need to make these determinations unless and until these permits are modified. Based on current guidance, we do not expect these
requirements to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Nucor uses
electric arc furnaces (“EAF”) to recycle scrap metal into new steel products. These EAFs use electricity as their primary source of energy. As the new GHG regulations, air toxics rules and new emissions standards recently imposed on
electric utilities are fully implemented it is reasonable to expect that the cost of electricity produced by these utilities will increase. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for more information about the potential impact of GHG regulations
on Nucor’s business.

The CWA regulates water discharges and withdrawals. Nucor maintains discharge and withdrawal
permits as appropriate at its facilities under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the CWA and conducts its operations in compliance with those permits. Nucor also maintains permits from local governments for the discharge
of water into publicly owned treatment works where available.

RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and
hazardous wastes. RCRA also addresses the environmental impact of contamination from waste disposal activities and from recycling of and storage of most wastes. While Nucor believes it is in substantial compliance with these regulations, past waste
disposal activities that were legal when conducted but now may pose a contamination threat are periodically discovered. These and off-site properties that USEPA has determined are contaminated, for which Nucor may be potentially responsible at some
level, are quickly evaluated and corrected. While Nucor has conducted and is in the final stages of completing some cleanups under RCRA, these liabilities either are identified already and being resolved or have been fully resolved.

Because Nucor long ago implemented environmental practices that have resulted in the responsible disposal of waste materials, Nucor is
also not presently considered a major contributor to any major cleanups under CERCLA for which Nucor has been named a potentially responsible party. Nucor continually evaluates these types of potential liabilities and, if appropriate, maintains
reserves sufficient to remediate the identified liabilities. Under RCRA, private citizens may also bring an action against the operator of a regulated facility for potential damages and payment of cleanup costs. Nucor is confident that its system of
internal evaluation and due diligence has sufficiently identified these types of potential liabilities so that compliance with these regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition
beyond that already reflected in the reserves established for them.

The primary raw material of Nucor’s steelmaking
operations is scrap metal. The process of recycling scrap metal brings with it many contaminants such as paint, zinc, chrome and other metals that produce air emissions which are captured in specialized emission control equipment. This filtrant (EAF
dust) is classified as a listed hazardous waste under the RCRA. Because these contaminants contain valuable metals, this filtrant is recycled to recover those metals. Nucor sends all but a small fraction of the EAF dust it produces to recycling
facilities that recover the zinc, lead, chrome and other valuable metals from this dust. By recycling this material, Nucor is not only acting in a sustainable, responsible manner but is also substantially limiting its potential for future liability
under both CERCLA and RCRA.

Nucor operates an aggressive and sustainable environmental program that incorporates the concept
of individual employee as well as management responsibility for environmental performance. All of Nucor’s steelmaking operations are ISO 14001 certified. Achieving ISO 14001 certification means that each of Nucor’s steel mills has put an
environmental management system in place with measurable targets and objectives, such as reducing the use of oil and grease and minimizing electricity use, and has implemented site-wide recycling programs. These environmental management systems make
environmental commitment each Nucor teammate’s responsibility. Nucor’s environmental program maintains a high level of training, commitment, outreach and visibility.







Capital expenditures at our facilities that are associated with environmental regulation
compliance for 2015 and 2016 are estimated to be less than $100 million per year.

Employees

Nucor has a simple, streamlined organizational structure to allow our employees to make quick decisions and to innovate. Our organization
is highly decentralized, with most day-to-day operating decisions made by our division general managers and their staff. We have slightly more than 100 employees in our executive office. The vast majority of Nucor’s 23,600 employees are not
represented by labor unions.

Available Information

Nucor’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, are available on our website at www.nucor.com, as soon as
reasonably practicable after Nucor files these reports electronically with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as otherwise stated in these reports, the information contained on our website or
available by hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.



