Item 1.Business

Overview

Nucor Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1958. Nucor and affiliates are manufacturers of steel and steel products, with operating
facilities and customers primarily located in North America and, increasingly, internationally. In February 2008, Nucor acquired The David J. Joseph Company (“DJJ”) and its affiliates. Through DJJ, Nucor also brokers ferrous and nonferrous
metals, pig iron, hot briquetted iron (“HBI”) and direct reduced iron (“DRI”); supplies ferro-alloys; and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap. Additionally, the Company’s operations include international trading companies
that buy and sell steel and steel products.

Nucor is North America’s largest recycler, using scrap steel as the primary
material in producing our products. In 2009, we recycled approximately 13.4 million tons of scrap steel.

Segments

Nucor reports its results in the following segments: steel mills, steel products and raw materials. Net sales to external customers,
intercompany sales, depreciation expense, amortization expense, earnings (loss) before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, assets and capital expenditures by segment for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 are
set forth in Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2009 Annual Report, which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Principal Products Produced

Principal products from the steel mills segment are hot-rolled steel (angles,
rounds, flats, channels, sheet, wide-flange beams, pilings, billets, blooms, beam blanks and plate) and cold-rolled steel. Principal products from the steel products segment are steel joists and joist girders, steel deck, fabricated concrete
reinforcing steel, cold finished steel, steel fasteners, metal building systems, light gauge steel framing, steel grating and expanded metal, and wire and wire mesh. The raw materials segment produces DRI from Nucor’s facility in Trinidad;
brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, HBI and DRI; supplies ferro-alloys; and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap.

Hot-rolled steel is manufactured principally from scrap and scrap substitutes, utilizing electric arc furnaces, continuous casting and automated rolling mills. Cold-rolled steel, cold finished steel, steel joists and joist girders,
fabricated concrete reinforcing steel, grating and expanded metal, cold drawn wire and steel fasteners are manufactured by further processing of hot-rolled steel. Steel deck, light gauge steel framing and wire mesh are manufactured from cold-rolled
and cold drawn steel.

Markets and Marketing

In the steel mills segment, hot-rolled and cold-rolled sheet steel are produced to customer orders. In addition, other hot-rolled and cold-rolled steel are manufactured in standard sizes and inventories
are maintained. In 2009, approximately 86% of the steel mills segment production was sold to non-affiliated customers; the remainder was used internally by the steel products segment. Hot-rolled steel and cold-rolled steel are sold primarily to
steel service centers, fabricators and manufacturers throughout the United States and, increasingly, internationally. In 2009, approximately 30% of our sheet steel sales were made to contract customers with the balance of sales made in the spot
market at prevailing prices at the time of sale. These contracts permit price adjustments to reflect changes in prevailing raw material costs and typically have terms ranging from six to twelve months.

In the steel products segment, steel joists and joist girders, and steel deck are sold to general contractors and fabricators throughout the
United States. Substantially all work is to order and no unsold inventories of finished







Item 1.Business, continued



products are maintained. The majority of sales contracts are firm fixed-price contracts and are normally competitively bid against other suppliers. Longer term contracts may permit price
adjustments to reflect changes in prevailing raw materials costs. Reinforcing products are sold on a construction contract bid basis. Product applications include highways, bridges, reservoirs, utilities, hospitals, schools, airports, stadiums and
high-rise buildings. Cold finished steel, steel fasteners, steel grating, wire and wire mesh are manufactured in standard sizes and inventories are maintained. Cold finished steel and steel fasteners are sold primarily to distributors and
manufacturers throughout the United States and Canada.

Products from the steel mills and steel products segments are marketed
mainly through in-house sales forces. The principal competitive factors are price and service. The markets that Nucor serves are tied to capital and durable goods spending and are affected by changes in economic conditions. Considerable competition
exists from numerous domestic manufacturers and foreign imports.

In the raw materials segment, ferrous and nonferrous scrap
metal is processed and sold to domestic and international consumers. Additionally, brokerage of scrap substitutes, supply of ferro-alloy, and transportation, material handling and other services are provided to users of scrap metals. The primary
customers for ferrous scrap are steel mills and foundries that use scrap as a raw material in their manufacturing process. Nonferrous customers include aluminum can companies, secondary aluminum smelters, steel mills and other processors and
consumers of various nonferrous metals. Scrap products and services are marketed through in-house sales forces. In 2009, approximately 18% of the ferrous and nonferrous scrap tons sold by the raw materials segment were to non-affiliated customers.

Additionally, the Company’s other operations include international trading companies that buy and sell steel and steel
products manufactured by Nucor mills as well as other steel manufacturers.

Due to the global economic crisis that began in
the second half of 2008 and continued through 2009, there has been a widespread weakening of global economic conditions resulting in decreased capital spending. Because of this deterioration, the related demand for our products has diminished.
Looking forward into the first quarter of 2010, we believe that steel market conditions will remain extremely challenging. One indicator of general economic conditions is the unemployment rate. In December 2009, the Bureau of Labor Statistics
released the U6 real unemployment rate of 17%. The U6 rate includes total unemployed plus workers who want to work full time but are employed part time for economic reasons. Another indicator of market conditions for our industry is the capacity
utilization rate. According to the American Steel Institute, industry capacity utilization rates for 2009 were 51% compared to 81% in 2008 and 87% in 2007. As a result, we believe that any increased demand in the North American steel markets will be
part of a long, slow recovery.

We anticipate that global demand in 2010 will bring the steel industry close to production
levels experienced prior to the current economic recession, with North America and Europe trailing behind growth in other parts of the world. Any sizeable increase in demand in North America will primarily come from replenishing inventory following
the destocking that occurred in late 2008 and early 2009. Additionally, we expect moderate growth in global demand over the next five years, primarily related to the continued building of infrastructure in China, India and other industrializing
nations of the world.

In the midst of this economic crisis, Nucor has been active in calling on policymakers to enforce
global trade agreements and address the jobs crisis in the United States. The illegal trade practices of some of our trading partners, particularly China, continue to be an important concern for the company. In mid-2008, in response to the
global economic crisis, China returned to its practice of pegging its currency to the dollar. Chinese currency manipulation has contributed to huge U.S. trade deficits and the shrinking of our country’s manufacturing base. The Obama
Administration has begun to take positive steps toward enforcing trade agreements. The Commerce Secretary and U.S. Trade Representative have both stated that enforcement of trade agreements is essential. The President has also acknowledged the role
that the currency policies of our







Item 1.Business, continued



competitors can play in creating competitive disadvantages. The Administration put this acknowledgement into action when it imposed duties on tires and oil country tubular goods from China
during November 2009.

In order to jump-start economic growth, Nucor has urged lawmakers to increase spending on our
country’s outdated and deteriorating infrastructure. According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, we need $2.2 trillion in spending over the next five years to repair and update our infrastructure in order to keep the nation globally
competitive. The stimulus package passed in early 2009 allocated only $110 billion out of the total $787 billion package for infrastructure, of which less than half of the funds allocated to infrastructure have actually been spent at the date
of this filing. We have also encouraged efforts to replace foreign sources of energy with domestically-produced energy as a way to reduce our trade deficit and secure reliable, affordable sources of energy. Traditional and energy-related
infrastructure projects would help create the jobs needed to offset the 8.4 million jobs lost during this recession.

Backlog

In the steel mills segment, Nucor’s backlog of orders was approximately $1.55 billion and $1.42 billion at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Nucor’s backlog of orders in the steel products segment was approximately $954.6 million and $1.38 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Order backlogs for the steel mills
segment include orders attributable to Nucor’s downstream businesses. The majority of these orders will be filled within one year. The decrease in backlog orders in the steel products segments is due to the economic downturn, which was
particularly severe in the non-residential construction markets. The construction markets represent a significant percentage of sales for our steel mills and steel products segment. Due to the nature of our raw materials business, order backlog
within the raw materials segment is not significant.

Raw Materials

The primary raw material for the steel mills segment is ferrous scrap, which is mostly acquired via DJJ’s brokerage service from
numerous sources throughout the country, including our DJJ scrap processing facilities. The primary raw material for the steel products segment is steel, which is almost entirely purchased from the steel mills segment. In the raw materials segment,
we purchase ferrous and nonferrous scrap from the following primary sources: (i) manufacturers and industrial plants or other sources that generate or recycle steel scrap, aluminum, copper, stainless steel and other nonferrous metals; and
(ii) scrap dealers, peddlers, auto wreckers, demolition firms and others who generate steel that they collect from a variety of sources. We do not purchase a significant amount of scrap metal from a single source or from a limited number of
major sources. The primary raw material for our DRI facility in Trinidad is iron ore, which is purchased from various international suppliers.

The average scrap and scrap substitute cost per ton used has decreased by 31% from the historically high levels of $438 in 2008 to $303 in 2009. During both years, Nucor used a raw material surcharge as a
component of our product pricing to help offset the impact of volatile scrap prices.

Changes in scrap prices are based on
changes in the global supply and demand for scrap, which is tied to the global supply and demand for steel products. From late 2003 until third quarter 2008, demand for scrap and other raw materials rose sharply in response to increased demand, both
domestically and internationally, for a wide range of products made from steel without a corresponding increase in the global supply of those raw materials. Although steel demand has weakened recently causing a decrease in scrap pricing, the
surcharge mechanism to offset raw materials pricing changes is still in place. Our surcharges are based upon changes in widely-available market indices for prices of scrap and other raw materials. We monitor those changes closely and make
adjustments as needed, but generally on a monthly basis, to the surcharges and sometimes directly to the selling prices, for our products. The majority of our steel sales are to spot market customers who place their orders each month based on their
business needs and our pricing competitiveness compared with both domestic and global







Item 1.Business, continued



producers and trading companies. We also include in all of our contracts a method of adjusting prices on a periodic basis to reflect changes in market pricing for scrap. Contract sales typically
have a term ranging from six months to two years. There will always be a timing difference between changes in the prices we pay for raw materials and the adjustments we make. We attempt to manage the risk associated with this timing difference via
the surcharge mechanism, which our customers understand is a necessary response by us to the market forces of supply and demand for our raw materials.

Nucor’s margins and overall profitability are affected by the global balance of supply and demand for steel. We believe our variable cost structure, combined with our financial strength and
liquidity, allowed us to survive the severely depressed steel industry market conditions of 2002-2003 and 2008-2009 as scrap prices fell dramatically and our incentive pay system reduced our hourly and salary payroll costs, helping to offset lower
selling prices. We recognize that the steel business is cyclical in nature and expect to see future changes in the balance of supply and demand impact our margins and profitability.

Energy Consumption

As a carbon steel producer, Nucor will likely be impacted by legislative and regulatory efforts in the U.S. Nucor is also the largest
recycler in the U.S. and, as such, has significantly contributed to the steel industry’s 29% drop in Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) emissions over the last two decades. Nucor and the rest of the steel industry are continually singled out
as already having made the right choices and being models for other industry sectors. The growth of Nucor has in large part been one of the drivers of this reduction.

At present it appears that legislative efforts directed at climate change are correctly being focused on the negative impact that “cap and trade” type legislation would have on manufacturers and
the jobs they represent. It is difficult to evaluate the impact of any legislation that at present is only theoretical, but it is possible to make some general statements about the overall concept, particularly as climate change legislation or
regulation would apply to Nucor’s cost of operations.

Most versions of climate change “cap and trade”
legislation treat the steel industry favorably with respect to allowances for emissions that will facilitate production. However, it is the indirect, increased costs for energy resulting from climate change legislation or regulation that are
Nucor’s primary concern. Climate change legislation or regulation will have a negative impact on utilities that will result in an increase in the cost of energy that Nucor consumes at its operations. Higher energy costs would make Nucor
and other U.S. based







Item 1.Business, continued



manufacturers less competitive with other producers in the increasingly global market for steel and steel products. For this reason, Nucor believes it is critical that the U.S. should increase
the supply of economical nuclear power and natural gas instead of relying on production of electricity from more expensive alternate sources such as solar and wind.

The severity of the impact on Nucor’s operations of increased energy costs will depend upon the specifics of any climate change legislation or regulation. For this reason, Nucor has for some time
been actively involved in efforts, both internally and externally, to improve energy efficiency at all levels of its operations. These efforts include participation in Climate Vision, the World Steel Sector Initiative and the Asia Pacific
Partnership. Nucor also tracks energy intensity internally and provides the managers of its various operations with targets for improvement.

The Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes to regulate GHG’s under the Clean Air Act. Because most of Nucor’s
operations are already subject to the EPA’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and New Source Review (“NSR”) rules that were also promulgated under the Clean Air Act, complying with any new rules regulating
GHG’s should not present significantly new challenges beyond the already cumbersome permitting process. The EPA’s authority to adopt rules regulating GHG’s has already been challenged in court by several states, and the rules
themselves when they are adopted will be subject to legal challenges. Therefore, we do not expect the proposed rules regulating GHG’s will be implemented for some time.

Strategic Growth Initiatives

Nucor employs a multi-pronged growth strategy
allowing for flexibility and the ability to capitalize on growth opportunities at any point in time. The objective of our strategy is profitable growth that will allow for maximum shareholder returns. The four prongs include:



•Optimization of existing operations



•Greenfield growth that capitalizes on new technologies and unique marketplace opportunities



•Acquisitions



•International growth with an emphasis on leveraging strategic partnerships and new technologies

Inherent in our growth strategy and our business model is our culture. It is a culture based on teamwork, continual improvement and
long-term strategic thinking. Over the years, our culture and philosophy have enabled us to operate in a downturn the same way we operate during periods of economic strength. In fact, Nucor has a long history of taking advantage of economic
downturns to grow stronger and expand our long-term earnings power. It is worth noting that a healthy portion of the profits realized for several years leading up until 2009 were generated by assets that we built or acquired during the last economic
downturn experienced during the 2001 to 2003 time period. These highly successful growth initiatives included our entry into the plate market, and the acquisitions of Auburn Steel, Birmingham Steel and Trico Steel.

While the current economic downturn presents a number of risks to Nucor and the steel industry, we also believe that such an environment
will present unusually attractive growth opportunities to a company that is in Nucor’s position of strength. We believe our strong balance sheet and disciplined approach will enable us to capitalize on these opportunities and continue to build
Nucor into a better and more profitable company well into the future.

Optimization of existing operations

Nucor emphasizes optimizing existing operations in order to keep them state-of-the-art and globally competitive. Capital expenditures are
currently projected to be approximately $400 million in 2010, which is







Item 1.Business, continued



consistent with capital spending levels in 2009. As discussed in further detail below, several of our greenfield projects were substantially completed in 2009, including our special bar quality
mill in Memphis, Tennessee, our Castrip®facility in Blytheville, Arkansas, and our galvanizing facility in
Decatur, Alabama. We began work on a new heat treating facility in Hertford County, North Carolina, and on expansion of capacity at our Nu-Iron DRI plant in Trinidad. However, the majority of the projected capital expenditures for 2010 will be used
to enhance the productivity and efficiency of our existing facilities.

Greenfield growth

We continue to increase our presence in the steel mills segment through greenfield projects such as our special bar quality (“SBQ”)
mill in Memphis, Tennessee, which has an estimated annual capacity of 850,000 tons. Complementing our mills in South Carolina and Nebraska, the Memphis mill positions Nucor to provide the most diverse, highest quality and lowest cost SBQ offering in
North America. At the start of 2009, we began shipping SBQ from the Memphis mill to our customers.

Another greenfield project
is the Castrip facility in Blytheville, Arkansas, which began production in late 2009. Nucor began operations of its other Castrip facility in Crawfordsville, Indiana, in 2002. These facilities use the breakthrough technology of strip casting, to
which Nucor holds exclusive rights in the United States and Brazil. Strip casting involves the direct casting of molten steel into near final shape and thickness with minimal hot or cold rolling, allowing lower investment and operating costs,
reduced energy consumption and smaller scale plants than can be economically built with current technology. This process also reduces the overall environmental impact of producing steel by generating significantly lower emissions. We continue to
explore potential new joint ventures utilizing the Castrip technology.

In November 2009, we commissioned the previously idle
Kingman, Arizona, rolling mill that we acquired in 2003. Operations will begin in the second quarter of 2010 with initial output of straight-length rebar, coiled rebar and wire rod slated for production of more than 100,000 tons with the ability to
increase annual production to 500,000 tons. Also during 2009, we commenced operations at the new galvanizing facility at our sheet mill in Decatur, Alabama. The addition of the Decatur galvanizing line will increase Nucor’s value-added coated
flat rolled products annual capacity by one-third to two million tons per year.

Nucor also began construction on a plate heat
treating facility at our plate mill in Hertford County, North Carolina. The heat treat line will have an estimated annual capacity of 120,000 tons and will have the ability to produce heat treated plate from 3/16” to 2” thick.

We recently began a project to expand the capacity of our Nu-Iron DRI production facility in Trinidad. This project will increase
Nu-Iron’s production capacity of high-quality iron units. The project is expected to be complete in late 2010. The Trinidad site benefits from a low-cost supply of natural gas and favorable logistics for receipt of Brazilian iron ore and
shipment of DRI to the U.S.

In May 2008, Nucor applied for a permit to build an iron-making facility in St. James Parish,
Louisiana. This project has been significantly delayed while we continue working through an extended permitting process and monitor the status of proposed climate change legislation. We remain committed to our goal of controlling one-third of
our iron inputs via pig iron, direct reduced iron or other iron-making technologies and have several options under development to complement or replace our Louisiana blast furnace project if the consequences of climate change legislation makes that
project unviable.

Acquisitions

Nucor’s acquisitions over the past few years have strengthened our position as North America’s most diversified producer of steel and steel products. This diversity has been a significant factor
in Nucor’s increased







Item 1.Business, continued



profitability through 2008 and added market share across multiple product categories. Although our acquisition initiatives were put on hold in late 2008 because of the economic crisis, we did add
to our rebar fabrication footprint with the acquisition of Free State Steel in 2009. We continue to meet with potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners as we evaluate opportunities in the economic downturn to grow Nucor’s
long-term earnings power for our shareholders.

The annual capacity of Nucor’s downstream value-added products has more
than doubled since late 2006 to over 4.5 million tons. We have done this with our very successful acquisitions of Verco Manufacturing Company in steel decking; Harris Steel Group Inc. in rebar fabrication, cold finished bars and metal grating;
LMP Steel & Wire Company in cold finished bars; Magnatrax Corporation in metal buildings; and Nelson Steel, Inc. in wire mesh. Harris Steel has been a growth platform for Nucor over the past three years, having completed numerous
acquisitions in the months following Nucor’s initial acquisition in 2007. With the acquisition of Ambassador Steel, Inc. in 2008, Harris increased our rebar fabrication capacity to over 1.5 million tons.

In February 2008, Nucor announced the acquisition of SHV North America Corporation, which owns 100% of DJJ and certain affiliates. Since
scrap is our largest single cost, this strategic investment provides an ideal growth platform for Nucor to expand its direct ownership in the steel scrap supply chain and further our raw materials strategy. By the end of 2008, Nucor added
approximately one million tons of scrap processing and 23 locations via four scrap processing acquisitions executed by DJJ’s management team. Although the economy precluded our team from pursuing acquisitions in 2009, we expect to add
additional scrap capacity in 2010. Nucor’s total scrap processing capacity is now approaching five million tons. Additionally, DJJ brokers ferrous scrap, ferro-alloys and non-ferrous metals and internationally sources scrap, pig iron and scrap
substitutes. The DJJ Mill and Industrial Services business provides logistics and metallurgical blending operations and offers on-site handling and trading of industrial scrap. The DJJ Rail Services business oversees a large private fleet of rail
cars dedicated to scrap movement and offers complete railcar fleet management and leases for third parties. All of these businesses have strategic value to Nucor as the most diversified North American steel producer.

International growth

In
2008, Nucor opened a European office and entered into a joint investment with Duferco S. A. In July 2008, Nucor acquired a 50% equity interest in Duferdofin Nucor S.r.l. for approximately $671.3 million (including $4.3 million paid in 2009 as an
adjustment to the purchase price). Duferdofin Nucor operates a one million ton-per-year steel melt shop with a bloom/billet caster in Brescia, Italy. The Company also operates four rolling mills located throughout Italy—two beam mills, one
track shoes/cutting edges mill and a new merchant/rebar mill. The rolling mill capacities include 1 million metric tons for beams, 55,000 metric tons for track shoes/cutting edges and 450,000 metric tons for bar. The new merchant/rebar mill was
commissioned in late 2009. Duferdofin Nucor’s customers are primarily steel service centers and distributors located in Italy, Southern Europe and North Africa.

Employees

Nucor has a simple, streamlined organizational structure to
allow our employees to make quick decisions and be innovative. Our organization is highly decentralized, with most day-to-day operating decisions made by our division general managers and their staff. Only 90 employees are located in our executive
office. The majority of Nucor’s 20,400 employees are not represented by labor unions.

Additional Information Incorporated by
Reference

Additional information on Nucor’s business is incorporated by reference to Nucor’s 2009 Annual Report,
pages 8 through 19.







Item 1.Business, continued



Available Information

Nucor’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports, are available on our website atwww.nucor.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after Nucor
files these reports electronically with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as otherwise stated in these reports, the information contained on our website or available by hyperlink from our website
is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.



