Item 1.Business

Overview

Nucor Corporation and its affiliates (“Nucor” or the “Company”) manufacture steel and steel products. The Company also
produces direct reduced iron (“DRI”) for use in the Company’s steel mills. Through The David J. Joseph Company and its affiliates (“DJJ”), which the Company acquired in 2008, the Company also processes ferrous and nonferrous
metals and brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, hot briquetted iron (“HBI”) and DRI. Most of the Company’s operating facilities and customers are located in North America, but increasingly, Nucor is doing business outside
of North America as well. The Company’s operations include several international trading companies that buy and sell steel and steel products manufactured by the Company and others.

Nucor is North America’s largest recycler, using scrap steel as the primary raw material in producing steel and steel products. In
2010, we recycled approximately 17 million tons of scrap steel.

General Development of our Business in Recent Years

Nucor has employed a multi-pronged growth strategy in recent years that allows for flexibility and the ability to capitalize on growth
opportunities as they arise. The four prongs of that growth strategy have been: (1) optimizing existing operations, (2) growing through developing greenfield projects that capitalize on new technologies and unique marketplace
opportunities, (3) acquiring other companies that will strengthen Nucor’s position as North America’s most diversified producer of steel and steel products and (4) growing internationally with an emphasis on leveraging strategic
partnerships and new technologies.

Optimizing our existing operations has primarily involved targeting a
significant portion of our capital expenditures each year on projects that will enhance the productivity and efficiency of our existing facilities. We have also capitalized upon any production downtime during the economic downturn of the past few
years to develop new product offerings at our existing operations. Growing through greenfield projects has included the construction of our special bar quality steel mill in Memphis, Tennessee, which we completed in 2009. We also began commercial
production in 2009 at a new facility in Blytheville, Arkansas, which uses breakthrough Castrip®technology to
strip cast molten steel into near final shape and thickness with minimal hot or cold rolling, allowing lower investment and operating costs. The Castrip technology also reduces the overall environmental impact of producing steel by generating
significantly lower emissions than traditional steel producing technologies. In late 2010, we announced that we have selected St. James Parish, Louisiana as the site where we plan to construct a new DRI facility with a capacity of 2,500,000 tons of
DRI per year.

The pace at which we have been acquiring other companies slowed dramatically in late 2008, but in the preceding
four years we completed numerous acquisitions. Since late 2006 our annual capacity to produce downstream value-added products has more than doubled to over 4.5 million tons through acquisitions of a steel decking producer, fabricators of rebar,
cold finished bars and steel grating, a manufacturer of metal buildings and a wire mesh fabricator. The acquisition of DJJ in the spring of 2008 was a key part of our strategy to better manage the supply of ferrous scrap metal, the primary raw
material used by our electric arc furnace steel mills.

In 2008 we grew internationally, by opening a European office and
entering into a joint investment with Duferco S.A., Duferdofin Nucor S.r.l., which operates a one million tons-per-year steel melt shop with a bloom billet caster in Brescia, Italy and four rolling mills located throughout Italy. The customers for
the products produced by Duferdofin Nucor S.r.l. are primarily steel service centers and distributors located in Italy, southern Europe and North Africa.







In 2010, we entered into an agreement with Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) to form a newly
created company, NuMit LLC, in which we own a 50% economic and voting interest. NuMit LLC owns 100% of the equity interest in Steel Technologies LLC, which operates 23 sheet processing facilities located throughout the United States, Canada and
Mexico.

Segments

Nucor reports its results in three segments: steel mills, steel products and raw materials. Net sales to external customers, intercompany sales, depreciation expense, amortization expense, earnings (loss)
before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, assets and capital expenditures by segment for each of the three fiscal years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010 are set forth in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Nucor’s 2010 Annual Report, which is hereby incorporated by reference. The steel mills are Nucor’s dominant segment representing approximately 69% of the Company’s sales to external customers in the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2010.

Principal Products Produced

In the steel mills segment, Nucor produces sheet steel (hot and cold-rolled), plate steel, structural steel (wide-flange beams, beam blanks and sheet piling) and bar steel (blooms, billets, concrete
reinforcing bar, merchant bar and special bar quality). Nucor manufactures steel principally from scrap steel and scrap steel substitutes using electric arc furnaces, continuous casting and automated rolling mills. In the steel products segment,
Nucor produces steel joists and joist girders, steel deck, fabricated concrete reinforcing steel, cold finished steel, steel fasteners, metal building systems, light gauge steel framing, steel grating and expanded metal, and wire and wire mesh. In
the raw materials segment, the Company produces DRI; brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, HBI and DRI; supplies ferro-alloys; and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal.

Markets and Marketing

The steel mills segment sells its products primarily
to steel service centers, fabricators and manufacturers located throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico and, increasingly, elsewhere in the world. Nucor produces hot-rolled and cold-rolled sheet steel in standard grades and to customers’
specifications while maintaining inventories to fulfill anticipated orders. In 2010, approximately 40% of our sheet steel sales were to contract customers. These contracts permit price adjustments to reflect changes in prevailing raw material costs
and typically have terms ranging from six to twelve months. The balance of our sheet steel sales was in the spot market at prevailing prices at the time of sale.

Our plate, structural, reinforcing and merchant bar steel come in standard sizes and grades, whereby we maintain inventory levels to meet our customers’ expected orders. In addition, our bar mill
group manufactures hot-rolled special bar quality products to exacting specifications primarily servicing the automotive, energy, agricultural, heavy equipment and transportation sectors. Almost all of our plate, structural, and bar steel sales
occur in the spot market at prevailing market prices.

In 2010, approximately 87% of the production by our steel mills segment
was sold to external customers. The balance of the steel mill segment’s production went to our downstream joist, deck, rebar fabrication, fastener, metal buildings and cold finish operations.

In the steel products segment, we sell steel joists and joist girders, and steel deck to general contractors and fabricators located
throughout the United States that we make to their order. We do not maintain inventories of these finished steel products. The majority of these contracts are firm, fixed-price contracts that are in most cases competitively bid against other
suppliers. Longer term supply contracts may permit us to adjust our prices to







reflect changes in prevailing raw materials costs. We sell fabricated reinforcing products only on a construction contract bid basis. These products are used by contractors in constructing
highways, bridges, reservoirs, utilities, hospitals, schools, airports, stadiums and high-rise buildings. We manufacture cold finished steel, steel fasteners, steel grating, wire and wire mesh in standard sizes and maintain inventories of these
products to fulfill anticipated orders. We sell cold finished steel and steel fasteners primarily to distributors and manufacturers located throughout the United States and Canada.

We market products from the steel mills and steel products segments mainly through in-house sales forces. The markets for these products
are tied to capital and durable goods spending and are affected by changes in general economic conditions.

In the raw
materials segment, the Company processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal for use in Nucor’s steel mills and for sale to various domestic and international external customers. The Company also brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals and scrap
substitutes, supplies ferro-alloys, and provides transportation, material handling and other services to users of scrap metals. The primary external customers for ferrous scrap are electric arc furnace steel mills and foundries that use ferrous
scrap as a raw material in their manufacturing process. External customers purchasing nonferrous scrap metal include aluminum can producers, secondary aluminum smelters, steel mills and other processors and consumers of various nonferrous metals. We
market scrap metal products and related services to our external customers through in-house sales forces. In 2010, approximately 13% of the ferrous and nonferrous scrap tons processed and sold by the raw materials segment were sold to external
customers.

The Company’s other operations include international trading companies that buy and sell steel and steel
products that Nucor and other steel producers have manufactured.

Backlog

In the steel mills segment, Nucor’s backlog of orders was approximately $1.64 billion and $1.04 billion at December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively. Nucor’s backlog of orders in the steel products segment was approximately $1.02 billion and $954.6 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Order backlogs for the steel mills segment include orders
attributable to Nucor’s downstream businesses. The majority of these orders will be filled within one year. Order backlog within our raw materials segment is not significant because the majority of the raw materials that segment produces are
used by internal divisions.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

The primary raw materials for our steel mills segment are ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes such as pig iron, DRI and HBI. As of
December 31, 2010, DJJ operated 59 scrap yards, and the Company’s annual scrap processing capability was approaching five million tons. DJJ acquires ferrous scrap from numerous sources including manufacturers of products made from steel,
industrial plants, scrap dealers, peddlers, auto wreckers and demolition firms. We purchase pig iron as needed from a variety of sources. Nucor operates a DRI plant in Trinidad with a capacity of 1,800,000 metric tons of DRI annually. The primary
raw material for our DRI facility in Trinidad is iron ore, which we purchase from various international suppliers. Nucor has announced plans to construct a second DRI facility in the State of Louisiana at a location on the Mississippi river with a
capacity of 2,500,000 tons of DRI annually. During the second quarter of 2010, Nucor entered into an agreement with a natural gas exploration and production firm that will involve drilling and completing on-shore natural gas wells in U.S.-based
proven reserves over a seven-year period that began in June 2010. Natural gas generated by this working interest drilling program will be sold to offset our exposure to the volatility of the price of gas consumed by our planned Louisiana DRI
facility.

The primary raw material for our steel products segment is steel produced by Nucor’s steel mills.







DJJ generally purchases ferrous and nonferrous scrap for sale to external customers from the
same variety of sources it purchases ferrous scrap for use as a raw material in Nucor’s steel mills. DJJ does not purchase a significant amount of scrap metal from a single source or from a limited number of major sources. The availability and
price of ferrous scrap are affected by changes in the global supply and demand for steel and steel products. Ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes are our single largest cost of products sold. A key part of our business strategy is to control a
significant portion of the supply of high quality metallics needed to operate our steel mills.

Energy Consumption and Costs

Our steel mills are large consumers of electricity and natural gas. Our DRI facility in Trinidad is, and the DRI facility
we are planning to construct in Louisiana will be, a large consumer of natural gas. Consequently, we use a variety of strategies to manage our exposure to price risk of natural gas, including cash flow hedges and a working interest agreement with a
leading natural gas production firm to drill on-shore natural gas wells in the United States.

Historically, manufacturers in
the United States have benefitted from relatively stable and competitive energy costs that have allowed them to compete on an equal footing in the increasingly global marketplace. The availability and prices of electricity and natural gas are
influenced today, however, by many factors including changes in supply and demand, advances in drilling technology and increasingly, by changes in public policy relating to energy production and use. Because energy is such a significant cost of
products sold for Nucor, we are continually striving to make our operations in all three of our business segments more energy efficient. We also monitor closely developments in public policy relating to energy production and consumption. When
appropriate, we work to shape those developments in ways that we believe will allow us to continue to be a competitive producer of steel and steel products in an increasingly competitive global market place.

Competition

We compete
in a variety of steel and metal markets, including markets for finished steel products, unfinished steel products, and raw materials. These markets are highly competitive with many firms participating and as a result of this highly competitive
environment, we find that we primarily compete on price and service.

Our electric-arc furnace steel mills face many different
forms of competition, including integrated steel producers (who use iron ore converted into liquid form in a blast furnace as their basic raw material instead of scrap steel), other electric-arc furnace mills, foreign imports and alternative
materials. Our unfinished and finished steel products face domestic competition from both integrated steel producers and other electric-arc furnace mills. Large integrated steel producers have the ability to manufacture a wide variety of products,
but they face significantly higher energy costs and are often burdened with higher capital and fixed operating costs. Electric-arc furnace mill producers such as Nucor are sensitive to increases in scrap prices, but tend to have lower capital and
fixed operating costs compared with integrated steel producers.

Competition from foreign steel and steel product producers
presents unique challenges for us. Imported steel often benefits from government subsidies, either directly or indirectly through government-owned enterprises or government-owned or controlled financial institutions. Foreign imports accounted for
approximately 21% of the U.S. steel market in 2010. In particular, competition from steel imported from China, which accounts for more than 40% of the steel produced annually in the world, is a major challenge. Chinese producers, many of which are
government-owned in whole or in part, continue to benefit from their government’s manipulation of foreign currency exchange rates and from the receipt of government subsidies, which allows them to sell their products below cost. These
distorting trade practices are not only widely recognized as being unfair but also have been challenged successfully as violating world trade rules in some recent instances. One of many recent examples occurred when the United States International
Trade Commission mandated an antidumping duty order on imports of certain oil country tubular goods from China because it determined that those products are sold in the United States at less than fair value.







The Chinese unfair trade practices seriously undermine the ability of the Company and other
domestic producers to compete on price when left unchallenged. China’s artificially lowered production costs have significantly contributed to the exodus of manufacturing jobs from the United States. When such a flight occurs, Nucor’s
customer base is diminished, thereby providing us with fewer opportunities to supply steel to those shuttered businesses. Rigorous trade law enforcement is critical to our ability to maintain our competitive position against foreign producers that
engage in unlawful trade practices. Nucor has been active in calling on policymakers to enforce global trade agreements and address the jobs crisis in the United States.

We also experience competition from other materials. Depending on our customers’ end use of our products, there are sometimes other materials, such as concrete, aluminum, plastics, composites and
wood that compete with our steel products. When the price of steel relative to other raw materials rises, these alternatives become more attractive to our customers.

Competition in our scrap and raw materials business is also vigorous. The scrap metals market consists of many firms and is highly fragmented. Firms typically compete on price and geographic proximity to
the sources of scrap metal.

Employees

Nucor has a simple, streamlined organizational structure to allow our employees to make quick decisions and be innovative. Our organization is highly decentralized, with most day-to-day operating
decisions made by our division general managers and their staff. Only 90 employees are located in our executive office. The majority of Nucor’s 20,500 employees are not represented by labor unions.

Available Information

Nucor’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports,
are available on our website at www.nucor.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after Nucor files these reports electronically with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as otherwise stated in these
reports, the information contained on our website or available by hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.



