Item 1.Business

Overview

Nucor Corporation and its affiliates (“Nucor” or the “Company”) manufacture steel and steel products. The Company also
produces direct reduced iron (“DRI”) for use in the Company’s steel mills. Through The David J. Joseph Company and its affiliates (“DJJ”), which the Company acquired in 2008, the Company also processes ferrous and nonferrous
metals and brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, hot briquetted iron (“HBI”) and DRI. Most of the Company’s operating facilities and customers are located in North America, but increasingly, Nucor is doing business outside
of North America as well. The Company’s operations include several international trading companies that buy and sell steel and steel products manufactured by the Company and others.

Nucor is North America’s largest recycler, using scrap steel as the primary raw material in producing steel and steel products. In
2011, we recycled approximately 19.7 million tons of scrap steel.

General Development of our Business in Recent Years

Nucor has employed a multi-pronged growth strategy in recent years that allows for flexibility and the ability to capitalize on growth
opportunities as they arise. The five prongs of that growth strategy are: (1) optimizing existing operations, (2) executing on our raw materials strategy, (3) growing through developing greenfield projects that capitalize on new
technologies and unique marketplace opportunities, (4) acquiring other companies that will strengthen Nucor’s position as North America’s most diversified producer of steel and steel products and (5) growing internationally with
an emphasis on leveraging strategic partnerships and new technologies.

Optimizing our existing operations has primarily
involved targeting a significant portion of our capital expenditures each year on projects that enhance productivity and efficiency as well as allow us to produce products that move us up the value chain at our existing facilities. The heat treat
line at our Hertford County, North Carolina mill became operational in 2010, which has allowed Nucor to grow its presence in higher margin products where higher strength and abrasion resistance is required. The heat treat line has also allowed us to
improve the product mix allocation between our two plate mills and four sheet mills to improve margins at those facilities. Nucor has announced plans to spend approximately $290 million for projects at our Tennessee, Nebraska, and South Carolina bar
mills that will expand Nucor’s special bar quality (“SBQ”) and wire rod capacity by one million tons. The projects, which we project will be completed by the end of 2013, will allow us to meet the needs of our engineered bar customers
in the attractive automotive, energy, heavy truck and heavy equipment markets. Other planned value-added projects at existing operations include a vacuum degasser at our Hickman, Arkansas mill and a new mill stand and other modifications that will
allow us to produce wider and lighter gauge hot-rolled steel at our Berkeley, South Carolina mill.

Executing on our raw
materials strategy involves putting the pieces into place to meet our goal of controlling between six and seven million tons of annual capacity in high quality scrap substitutes. We have begun construction on our 2,500,000 tons-per-year DRI facility
in St. James Parish, Louisiana. The majority of the equipment for this $750 million project will begin arriving in 2012, and start-up is currently projected to be in mid-2013. Between our existing DRI plant in Trinidad, which we have expanded to
increase the annual capacity from 1,800,000 to 2,000,000 metric tons, and our facility in St. James Parish, Louisiana, we will be approximately two-thirds of the way towards that goal.






Growing through greenfield projects has included the construction of our
SBQ steel mill in Memphis, Tennessee, which we completed in 2009. We also began commercial production in 2009 at a new facility in Blytheville, Arkansas, which uses breakthrough Castrip®technology to strip cast molten steel into near final shape and thickness with minimal hot or cold rolling. This allows for lower investment and operating costs and
reduces the environmental impact of producing steel.

The pace at which we have been acquiring other companies slowed
dramatically in late 2008, but in the preceding four years we completed numerous acquisitions. Since late 2006 our annual capacity to produce downstream value-added products has more than doubled to over 4.6 million tons through acquisitions of
a steel decking producer, fabricators of rebar, cold finished bars and steel grating, a manufacturer of metal buildings and a wire mesh fabricator. The acquisition of DJJ in the spring of 2008 was a key part of our strategy to better manage the
supply of ferrous scrap metal, the primary raw material used by our electric arc furnace steel mills.

In 2010, we entered
into an agreement with Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) to form NuMit LLC, in which we own a 50% economic and voting interest. NuMit LLC owns 100% of the equity interest in Steel Technologies LLC, which operates 25 sheet processing facilities located
throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico.

In 2008 we grew internationally by entering into a joint investment with
Duferco S.A., Duferdofin Nucor S.r.l., which operates a one million tons-per-year steel melt shop with a bloom billet caster in Brescia, Italy and three rolling mills located throughout Italy. The customers for the products produced by Duferdofin
Nucor S.r.l. are primarily steel service centers and distributors located both in Italy and throughout Europe.

Segments

Nucor reports its results in three segments: steel mills, steel products and raw materials. Net sales to external customers, intercompany
sales, depreciation expense, amortization expense, earnings (loss) before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, assets and capital expenditures by segment for each of the three fiscal years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011
are set forth in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Nucor’s 2011 Annual Report, which is hereby incorporated by reference. The steel mills are Nucor’s dominant segment representing approximately 70% of
the Company’s sales to external customers in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.

Principal Products Produced

In the steel mills segment, Nucor produces sheet steel (hot and cold-rolled), plate steel, structural steel (wide-flange
beams, beam blanks and sheet piling) and bar steel (blooms, billets, concrete reinforcing bar, merchant bar and SBQ). Nucor manufactures steel principally from scrap steel and scrap steel substitutes using electric arc furnaces, continuous casting
and automated rolling mills. In the steel products segment, Nucor produces steel joists and joist girders, steel deck, fabricated concrete reinforcing steel, cold finished steel, steel fasteners, metal building systems, light gauge steel framing,
steel grating and expanded metal, and wire and wire mesh. In the raw materials segment, the Company produces DRI; brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, HBI and DRI; supplies ferro-alloys; and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal.






Markets and Marketing

The steel mills segment sells its products primarily to steel service centers, fabricators and manufacturers located throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico and, increasingly, elsewhere in the world.
Nucor produces hot-rolled and cold-rolled sheet steel in standard grades and to customers’ specifications while maintaining inventories to fulfill anticipated orders. In 2011, approximately 50% of our sheet steel sales were to contract
customers, while steel contract sales outside of our sheet operations are not significant. The proportion of tons sold to contract customers depends on a variety of factors. These factors include our consideration of current and future market
conditions, our strategy to appropriately balance spot and contract tons to maximize profitability, our desire to sustain a diversified customer base, and our end-use customers’ perceptions about future market conditions. These sheet sales
contracts permit price adjustments to reflect changes in prevailing raw material costs and typically have terms ranging from six to twelve months. The balance of our sheet steel sales was in the spot market at prevailing prices at the time of sale.

Our plate, structural, reinforcing and merchant bar steel come in standard sizes and grades, whereby we maintain inventory
levels to meet our customers’ expected orders. In addition, our bar mill group manufactures hot-rolled SBQ products to exacting specifications primarily servicing the automotive, energy, agricultural, heavy equipment and transportation sectors.
Almost all of our plate, structural, and bar steel sales occur in the spot market at prevailing market prices.

In 2011,
approximately 86% of the production by our steel mills segment was sold to external customers. The balance of the steel mill segment’s production went to our downstream joist, deck, rebar fabrication, fastener, metal buildings and cold finish
operations.

In the steel products segment, we sell steel joists and joist girders, and steel deck to general contractors and
fabricators located throughout the United States. We make these products to the customers’ specifications and do not maintain inventories of these finished steel products. The majority of these contracts are firm, fixed-price contracts that are
in most cases competitively bid against other suppliers. Longer term supply contracts may permit us to adjust our prices to reflect changes in prevailing raw materials costs. We sell fabricated reinforcing products only on a construction contract
bid basis. These products are used by contractors in constructing highways, bridges, reservoirs, utilities, hospitals, schools, airports, stadiums and high-rise buildings. We manufacture cold finished steel, steel fasteners, steel grating, wire and
wire mesh in standard sizes and maintain inventories of these products to fulfill anticipated orders. We sell cold finished steel and steel fasteners primarily to distributors and manufacturers located throughout the United States and Canada.

We market products from the steel mills and steel products segments mainly through in-house sales forces. The markets for
these products are tied to capital and durable goods spending and are affected by changes in general economic conditions.

In
the raw materials segment, the Company processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal for use in Nucor’s steel mills and for sale to various domestic and international external customers. The Company also brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals and
scrap substitutes, supplies ferro-alloys, and provides transportation, material handling and other services to users of scrap metals. The primary external customers for ferrous scrap are electric arc furnace steel mills and foundries that use
ferrous scrap as a raw material in their manufacturing process. External customers purchasing nonferrous scrap metal include aluminum can producers, secondary aluminum smelters, steel mills and other processors and consumers of various nonferrous
metals. We market scrap metal products and related services to our external customers through in-house sales forces. In 2011, approximately 12% of the ferrous and nonferrous metals and scrap substitutes tons processed and sold by the raw materials
segment were sold to external customers.






The Company’s other operations include international trading companies that buy and
sell steel and steel products that Nucor and other steel producers have manufactured.

Backlog

In the steel mills segment, Nucor’s backlog of orders was approximately $1.80 billion and $1.64 billion at December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. Nucor’s backlog of orders in the steel products segment was approximately $1.11 billion and $1.02 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Order backlogs for the steel mills segment include orders
attributable to Nucor’s downstream businesses. The majority of these orders will be filled within one year. Order backlog within our raw materials segment is not significant because the majority of the raw materials that segment produces are
used by internal divisions.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

The primary raw materials for our steel mills segment are ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes such as pig iron, DRI and HBI. On average,
it takes approximately 1.1 tons of scrap and scrap substitutes to produce a ton of steel. As of December 31, 2011, DJJ operated over 60 scrap yards, and the Company’s annual scrap processing capability was approaching five million tons.
DJJ acquires ferrous scrap from numerous sources including manufacturers of products made from steel, industrial plants, scrap dealers, peddlers, auto wreckers and demolition firms. We purchase pig iron as needed from a variety of sources. Nucor
operates a DRI plant in Trinidad with a capacity of 1,800,000 metric tons of DRI annually. An expansion project has now increased the capacity to 2,000,000 metric tons annually. The primary raw material for our DRI facility in Trinidad is iron ore,
which we purchase from various international suppliers. A second DRI facility in Louisiana with an annual capacity of 2,500,000 tons is under construction. This Louisiana DRI facility is the first phase of a multi-phase plan that may include an
additional DRI facility, a coke plant, a blast furnace, a pellet plant and a steel mill.

In 2010, Nucor entered into an
agreement with a natural gas exploration and production firm that involves drilling and completing onshore natural gas wells in U.S.-based proven reserves over a seven-year period that began in June 2010. Natural gas generated by this working
interest drilling program is being sold to offset our exposure to the volatility of the price of gas consumed by our Louisiana DRI facility. Revenues from natural gas generated by this working interest drilling program are a small but increasing
amount, and all natural gas is being sold to outside parties.

The primary raw material for our steel products segment is
steel produced by Nucor’s steel mills.

DJJ generally purchases ferrous and nonferrous scrap for sale to external
customers from the same variety of sources it purchases ferrous scrap for use as a raw material in Nucor’s steel mills. DJJ does not purchase a significant amount of scrap metal from a single source or from a limited number of major sources.
The availability and price of ferrous scrap are affected by changes in the global supply and demand for steel and steel products. Ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes are our single largest cost of products sold. A key part of our business strategy
is to control a significant portion of the supply of high quality metallics needed to operate our steel mills.






Energy Consumption and Costs

Our steel mills are large consumers of electricity and natural gas. Our DRI facility in Trinidad is, and the DRI facility we are currently constructing in Louisiana will be, large consumers of natural
gas. Consequently, we use a variety of strategies to manage our exposure to price risk of natural gas, including cash flow hedges and a working interest agreement with a leading natural gas production firm to drill on-shore natural gas wells in the
United States.

Historically, manufacturers in the United States have benefitted from relatively stable and competitive energy
costs that have allowed them to compete on an equal footing in the increasingly global marketplace. The availability and prices of electricity and natural gas are influenced today, however, by many factors including changes in supply and demand,
advances in drilling technology and increasingly, by changes in public policy relating to energy production and use. Because energy is such a significant cost of products sold for Nucor, we are continually striving to make our operations in all
three of our business segments more energy efficient. We also closely monitor developments in public policy relating to energy production and consumption. When appropriate, we work to shape those developments in ways that we believe will allow us to
continue to be a competitive producer of steel and steel products in an increasingly competitive global market place.

Competition

We compete in a variety of steel and metal markets, including markets for finished steel products, unfinished steel
products, and raw materials. These markets are highly competitive with many domestic and foreign firms participating, and, as a result of this highly competitive environment, we find that we primarily compete on price and service.

Our electric-arc furnace steel mills face many different forms of competition, including integrated steel producers (who use iron ore
converted into liquid form in a blast furnace as their basic raw material instead of scrap steel), other electric-arc furnace mills, foreign imports and alternative materials. Our unfinished and finished steel products face domestic competition from
both integrated steel producers and other electric-arc furnace mills. Large integrated steel producers have the ability to manufacture a wide variety of products but face significantly higher energy costs and are often burdened with higher capital
and fixed operating costs. Electric-arc furnace mill producers such as Nucor are sensitive to increases in scrap prices but tend to have lower capital and fixed operating costs compared with integrated steel producers.

Recently we have experienced increased competition in the U.S. sheet steel market stemming from significant capacity increases. Since the
beginning of 2010, domestic sheet capacity has increased by approximately 5,000,000 tons as a result of the opening of a new sheet facility in Alabama, capacity additions at existing sheet mills, and the reopening of a previously shuttered sheet
mill in Maryland.

Competition from foreign steel and steel product producers presents unique challenges for us. Imported
steel and steel products often benefit from government subsidies, either directly or indirectly through government-owned enterprises or government-owned or controlled financial institutions. Foreign imports accounted for approximately 22% of the
U.S. steel market in 2011. In particular, competition from steel imported from China, which accounts for more than 40% of the steel produced annually in the world, is a major challenge. Chinese producers, many of which are government-owned in whole
or in part, continue to benefit from their government’s manipulation of foreign currency exchange rates and from the receipt of government subsidies, which allows them to sell their products below cost. These distorting trade practices are not
only widely recognized as being unfair but also have been challenged






successfully in some recent instances as violating world trade rules. Examples of successful challenges include the imposition of antidumping duty orders on imports of line pipe, oil country
tubular goods, rebar, cut-to-length plate and hot rolled sheet from China.

China’s unfair trade practices seriously
undermine the ability of the Company and other domestic producers to compete on price when left unchallenged. That country’s artificially lowered production costs have significantly contributed to the exodus of manufacturing jobs from the
United States. When such a flight occurs, Nucor’s customer base is diminished, thereby providing us with fewer opportunities to supply steel to those shuttered businesses. Rigorous trade law enforcement is critical to our ability to maintain
our competitive position against foreign producers that engage in unlawful trade practices. Nucor has been active in calling on policymakers to enforce global trade agreements and address the jobs crisis in the United States. Numerous downstream
consumers of steel are also taking action against unfairly traded Chinese imports, as demonstrated by recently filed cases on steel wheels and wind towers from China.

We also experience competition from other materials. Depending on our customers’ end use of our products, there are sometimes other materials, such as concrete, aluminum, plastics, composites and
wood that compete with our steel products. When the price of steel relative to other raw materials rises, these alternatives become more attractive to our customers.

Competition in our scrap and raw materials business is also vigorous. The scrap metals market consists of many firms and is highly fragmented. Firms typically compete on price and geographic proximity to
the sources of scrap metal.

Environmental Laws and Regulations

Our business operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations intended to protect the environment. The
principal federal environmental laws include the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) that regulates air emissions; the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) that regulates water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) that
addresses solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) that governs releases of, and remediation of sites contaminated by, hazardous
substances. The states in which our operations are located also have state laws and regulations that are patterned on these and other federal laws.

We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the provisions of all federal and state environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business operations. Both federal and state laws and
regulations are becoming increasingly stringent however, making compliance with them increasingly expensive and burdensome. In many instances the total costs of compliance are not readily quantifiable because compliance is so engrained in our
operating philosophy that these costs are simply considered part of our standard operating procedures.

The United States
Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) has proposed or promulgated many new national ambient air quality standards and toxic air emissions rules for which it has not yet issued guidance or compliance deadlines. While we begin
immediately to plan for compliance with such standards and rules, we cannot fully assess their impact on our operations until the guidance has been fully developed and issued and compliance deadlines have been established. In other cases where
environmental regulations are proposed or promulgated that may regulate previously unregulated aspects of our operations, it is impossible for us to fully determine the impact of these regulations until protracted legal challenges have been
concluded and USEPA or other regulatory agencies have developed and issued






technical guidance. Despite this atmosphere of regulatory uncertainty, at this time we do not believe that compliance with these new environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a
federally mandated operating permit program administered by the states with civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. Each of our steel mills is required to operate in compliance with its permit or potentially incur sanctions for failing to do
so. The DRI facility we are constructing in Louisiana was permitted under the CAA in January 2011. This permit included an evaluation and determination of Best Available Control Technology (“BACT”) for USEPA’s new
“Greenhouse Gasses” (“GHGs”) rule. Because of the size of our steelmaking operations, they are also subject to these new GHG regulations and will be required to do GHG BACT evaluations if their permits are modified in the
future. There is still a great deal of uncertainty and very little guidance from USEPA as to what is or may be considered GHG BACT for steelmaking operations. Our operations are properly permitted, and we will not need to make these determinations
unless and until their permits are modified. Based on current guidance, we do not expect these requirements to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Nucor uses electric arc furnaces (“EAF”) to recycle scrap metal into new steel products. These EAFs use electricity as
their primary source of energy. As the new GHG regulations, air toxics rules and other new environmental regulations are imposed on electric utilities, it is reasonable to expect that the cost of electricity produced by these utilities will
increase. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for more information about the potential impact of GHG regulations on Nucor’s business.

The CWA regulates water discharges and withdrawals. Nucor maintains discharge and withdrawal permits as appropriate at its facilities under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of
the CWA and conducts its operations in compliance with those permits. Nucor also maintains permits from local governments for the discharge of water into publicly owned treatment works where available.

RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. RCRA also addresses the environmental impact of
contamination from waste disposal activities and from recycling of and storage of most wastes. While Nucor believes it is in substantial compliance with these regulations, past waste disposal activities that were legal when conducted but now may
pose a contamination threat are periodically discovered. These and off-site properties that USEPA has determined are contaminated, for which Nucor may be potentially responsible at some level, are quickly evaluated and corrected. While
Nucor has conducted and is in the final stages of completing some cleanups under RCRA, these liabilities are either already identified and being resolved or have been fully resolved and Nucor is in receipt of no further action letters from the
appropriate regulatory agency.

Because Nucor long ago implemented environmental practices that have resulted in the
responsible disposal of waste materials, Nucor is also not presently considered a major contributor to any major cleanups under CERCLA for which Nucor has been named a potentially responsible party. Nucor continually evaluates these types of
potential liabilities and, if appropriate, maintains reserves sufficient to remediate the identified liabilities. Under RCRA, private citizens may also bring an action against the operator of a regulated facility for potential damages and
payment of cleanup costs. Nucor is confident that its system of internal evaluation and due diligence has sufficiently identified these types of potential liabilities so that compliance with these regulations will not have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition beyond that already reflected in the reserves established for them.






The primary raw material of Nucor’s steelmaking operations is scrap metal. The process
of recycling scrap metal brings with it many contaminants such as paint, zinc, chrome and other metals that produce air emissions which are captured in Nucor emission control equipment. This filtrant (EAF dust) is classified as a listed hazardous
waste under the RCRA. Because these contaminants contain valuable metals, this filtrant is recycled to recover those metals. Nucor sends all but a small fraction of the EAF dust it produces to recycling facilities that recover the zinc, lead, chrome
and other valuable metals from this dust. By recycling this material, Nucor is not only acting in a sustainable, responsible manner but is also substantially limiting its potential for future liability under both CERCLA and RCRA.

Nucor operates an aggressive and sustainable environmental program that incorporates the concept of individual employee as well as
management responsibility for environmental performance. All of Nucor’s steelmaking operations are ISO 14001 certified. Achieving ISO 14001 certification means that each of Nucor’s steel mills has put an environmental management
system in place with measurable targets and objectives, such as reducing the use of oil and grease and minimizing electricity use, and has implemented site-wide recycling programs. These environmental management systems make environmental commitment
each Nucor teammate’s responsibility. Nucor’s environmental program maintains a high level of training, commitment, outreach and visibility.

Capital expenditures at our facilities that are associated with environmental regulation compliance for 2012 and 2013 are estimated to be less than $100 million per year.

Employees

Nucor has a
simple, streamlined organizational structure to allow our employees to make quick decisions and be innovative. Our organization is highly decentralized, with most day-to-day operating decisions made by our division general managers and their staff.
Less than 100 employees are located in our executive office. The majority of Nucor’s 20,800 employees are not represented by labor unions.

Available Information

Nucor’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports,
are available on our website at www.nucor.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after Nucor files these reports electronically with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as otherwise stated in these
reports, the information contained on our website or available by hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.



