Item 1A.Risk
    Factors.



M&T and its subsidiaries could be adversely impacted by
    various risks and uncertainties which are difficult to predict.
    As a financial institution, the Company has significant exposure
    to market risk, including interest-rate risk, liquidity risk and
    credit risk, among others. Adverse experience with these or
    other risks could have a material impact on the Company’s
    financial condition and results of operations, as well as on the
    value of the Company’s financial instruments in general,
    and M&T’s common stock, in particular.







Interest Rate Risk — The Company is exposed to
    interest rate risk in its core banking activities of lending and
    deposit-taking since assets and liabilities reprice at different
    times and by different amounts as interest rates change. As a
    result, net interest income, which represents the largest
    revenue source for the Company, is subject to the effects of
    changing interest rates. The Company closely monitors the
    sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates
    and attempts to limit the variability of net interest income as
    interest rates change. The Company makes use of both on- and
    off-balance sheet financial instruments to mitigate exposure to
    interest rate risk. Possible actions to mitigate such risk
    include, but are not limited to, changes in the pricing of loan
    and deposit products, modifying the composition of earning
    assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and adding to,
    modifying or terminating interest rate swap agreements or other
    financial instruments used for interest rate risk management
    purposes.







Economic Risk — The U.S. economy experienced
    recession and weak economic conditions during the last three
    years. Those conditions contributed to risk as follows:

•The significant downturn in the residential real estate market
    that began in 2007 had continued in 2008 and 2009. The impact of
    that downturn has resulted in declining home prices, higher
    foreclosures and loan charge-offs, and lower market prices on
    investment securities backed by residential real estate. These
    factors have negatively impacted M&T’s results of
    operations and could continue to do so.•Lower demand for the Company’s products and services and
    lower revenues and earnings could result from ongoing weak
    economic conditions. Those conditions could also result in
    higher loan charge-offs due to the inability of borrowers to
    repay loans.•Lower fee income from the Company’s brokerage and trust
    businesses could result from significant declines in stock
    market prices.•Lower earnings could result from other-than-temporary impairment
    charges related to the Company’s investment securities
    portfolio.•Higher FDIC assessments could be imposed on the Company due to
    bank failures that have caused the FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund
    to fall below minimum required levels.•There is no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization
    Act of 2008 or the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
    2009 will improve the condition of the financial markets.



Supervision and Regulation — The Company is subject to
    extensive state and federal laws and regulations governing the
    banking industry, in particular, and public companies, in
    general, including laws related to corporate taxation. Many of
    those laws and regulations are described in Part I,
    Item 1 “Business.” Changes in those or other laws
    and regulations, or the degree of the Company’s compliance
    with those laws and regulations as judged by any of several
    regulators, including tax authorities, that oversee the Company,
    could have a significant effect on the Company’s operations
    and its financial results.

Detailed discussions of the specific risks outlined above and
    other risks facing the Company are included within this Annual
    Report onForm 10-Kin Part I, Item 1 “Business,” and
    Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
    Furthermore, in Part II, Item 7 under the heading
    “Forward-Looking Statements” is included a description
    of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by
    management that are difficult to predict and that could
    materially affect the Company’s financial condition and
    results of operations, as well as the value of the
    Company’s financial instruments in general, and M&T
    common stock, in particular.

In addition, the market price of M&T common stock may
    fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other
    factors, including changes in securities analysts’
    estimates of financial performance, volatility of stock market
    prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in
    market valuations of similar companies and changes in accounting
    policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies.







