ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Citrix Systems,
Inc. is a Delaware corporation founded on April 17, 1989. We design, develop and market technology solutions that enable IT services to be securely delivered on demand – independent of location, device or network. Our customers achieve
lower IT operating costs, increased information security and greater business agility using Citrix technologies that enable virtual computing. We market and license our products directly to enterprise customers, over the web, and through systems
integrators, or SIs, in addition to indirectly through value-added resellers, or VARs, value-added distributors, or VADs, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs.

Business Overview

For over two decades, we have passionately pursued our
long-term vision to enable people to work or play – anywhere through successive waves of invention. The first wave, beginning in the early-1990s, enabled secure remote access to mission critical applications for thousands of road warriors. This
required the invention of a new way to “transmit” application screens allowing applications to be virtualized instead of installed on the user’s personal computer, or PC, even over very thin network connections. IT administrators
found that virtualized applications on a central server made them more secure, faster running, easier to update and much more accessible. The shifting of computing to servers also allowed the invention of thin-clients and network computers powered
by Citrix client and server technologies. Since the early-1990s, we have become a leading provider of server-based computing solutions and our products have been accepted by thousands of organizations as strategic infrastructure for user mobility.

In the early 2000s, we turned our focus toward new market opportunities created by the massive connectivity of the internet,
rapid expansion of network bandwidth, and an explosion of device form factors such as smartphones, tablet PCs and netbooks. In parallel, customers began to realize the increasing value of mobility technologies like remote access, web collaboration
and remote support tools. We also believe that there are similar opportunities emerging in the datacenter to address high operating costs, inflexible infrastructure, and new application architectures.

These opportunities have been the driving forces behind our second wave of invention, building on our core ideas and technologies for
virtualizing applications – extending them to adjacent product and technology markets. Since 2004, we have focused our investments on a broader array of technologies, strategic acquisitions and new business models. This has expanded our core
capabilities beyond application virtualization to include desktop, client and server virtualization. It has also made Citrix a leading manufacturer of network appliances and one of the largest providers of software-as-a-service, or SaaS, in the
world.

Today, Citrix serves over 230,000 customers and over 100 million users every day in over 100 countries. Citrix
products and services allow people to collaborate, communicate and work virtually anywhere – using any device they choose. Our virtual computing infrastructure IT services are securely delivered on demand and we believe our datacenter computing
resources are simpler, lower cost and more efficient.

Invention and re-invention has driven our growth. Our diversified
product lines, routes to-the-customer, and business models have been enabled by our virtual computing products that offer collaboration as-a-service, desktop as-a-service and infrastructure as-a-service.

Products and Services

Our products and services target customers of all sizes – from individuals who subscribe to our GoToMyPC remote access service, to
network engineers who purchase our NetScaler web application devices, or the IT professional who licenses our XenDesktop infrastructure products. This section provides an overview of our major product and services offerings.

Desktop Solutions

Our Desktop Solutions – XenDesktop, XenClient and XenApp – reduce the complexity and cost of administering Windows-based
applications and desktops in the enterprise.



•Citrix®XenDesktop®is a fully integrated desktop virtualization system that gives customers the flexibility to
deliver the desktop as a service – dramatically simplifying desktop management for a broad range of users. XenDesktop is available









®





•



Citrix®XenApp®

®

®

®

®

®



•Citrix®XenClient™is a high-performance, bare-metal hypervisor that runs directly on the client device hardware, dividing up the resources of the machine and enabling multiple operating systems to run side by side in complete isolation.
XenClient is available as a free download on citrix.com.

Citrix Receiver™is the client side of XenApp and XenDesktop. Citrix Receiver is available as a free download from citrix.com
supporting numerous types of client devices. Citrix Receiver uses the Citrix HDX Technologies (discussed below) to communicate with XenApp and XenDesktop.

Online Services

Online Services is another area where we provide
virtualization at the desktop – in the form of web collaboration, including virtual meetings, web-based desktop support and remote access. These products are delivered using the SaaS method where customers simply subscribe to our cloud-based
online services without making any capital investment. These SaaS-delivered products help customers reduce travel, increase tele-working and enable cost-effective remote access and support.

Web Collaboration



•GoToMeeting®is an online, easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective solution for online meetings, sales demonstrations and collaborative gatherings. GoToMeeting allows a user with a PC or Mac and an Internet browser to easily host, attend or participate in an
online meeting or session without significant training. GoToMeeting is capable of providing a standard public switch telephone network, or PSTN, conference dial-in number and voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP. It features advanced secure
communication architecture that uses industry-standard secure sockets layers, or SSL. The service offers flat-fee pricing for any number of meetings of any length, for up to 15 attendees per meeting. We also offer GoToMeeting®Corporate which supports multiple organizer accounts, unlimited meetings with up to 25 attendees, robust reporting,
additional customization options and advanced administrative capabilities. GoToMeeting Corporate also provides optional integrated toll-free audio.



•GoToWebinar®is an easy-to-use,
do-it-yourself webinar solution, allowing organizations to increase market reach and effectively present online to geographically dispersed audiences. GoToWebinar allows users with a PC or Mac and an Internet browser to easily host, attend or
participate in a webinar session without significant training or IT support. GoToWebinar includes such features as full-service registration with real-time reports, customized branding, automated email templates, polling and survey capabilities,
webinar dashboard to monitor attendance and participation, easy presenter controls for changing presenters and VoIP and toll-based phone options. The service offers flat-fee pricing for unlimited webinars of any length, for up to 1,000
attendees per webinar.







•GoToTraining®is the easy online
training tool that allows trainers to deliver content to multiple trainees quickly and effortlessly, allowing organizations to expand their training program while saving time and reducing travel costs. GoToTraining allows users to host and
participate in interactive online training sessions from either their PC or Mac. GoToTraining includes such features as full-service registration with integrated payment processing, real-time reporting and management, online course catalog,
automated reminder and follow-up emails, content library to organize and store reusable content, materials, tests, polls, toll-free audio and VoIP options. . The service offers flat-fee pricing for unlimited training sessions of any length, for
up to 200 attendees per session.



•Integrated HiDef Audiois provided with the GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining products, providing a seamless audio and web experience
and the ability to record audio and web sessions, mute/unmute callers and recognize speakers from an easy-to-use interface.



•HiDef Audioprovides standalone audio options with reservationless audio conferencing for SMBs and large organizations. HiDef Corporate®and HiDef Conferencing®provide real-time reporting to manage users and costs effectively, with web controls to allow moderators to manage conferences without the costs of an operator.

Remote IT Support



•GoToAssist®is a leading, online,
remote technical-support solution that enables individual professionals and organizations of all sizes to provide secure, on-demand support over the Internet. GoToAssist enables support staff to instantly view and control the desktop of a user
without the need to pre-install client software. GoToAssist comes in the following versions: GoToAssist
Express®, GoToAssist Pro™, GoToAssist®Corporate, and
GoToAssist®FastChat™. The solutions work automatically and securely through virtually every firewall, even over dial-up connections, and they easily integrate into existing
infrastructure. GoToAssist Pro also integrates with GoToManage for full remote IT monitoring capabilities.



•GoToManage®is a leading IT management online solution that enables IT professionals to monitor and control their IT infrastructure. It provides instant answers to computer, server and network questions. GoToManage creates an IT “system of record”
— providing businesses and IT consultants with the ability to discover and identify network devices, monitor critical servers and applications in real time, manage network usage and bandwidth consumption and track configuration changes.
GoToManage is simple to deploy, can be accessed from anywhere and requires no costly server infrastructure. The solution also integrates with GoToAssist Pro to provide remote IT support and monitoring capabilities.

Remote Access



•GoToMyPC®is an online solution that
provides secure, remote access to PC and Mac from virtually any Internet-connected computer. GoToMyPC, which sets up easily with a secure encrypted connection, enables individuals to remotely use any resources hosted on their desktop just as though
they were sitting in front of it. GoToMyPC®Pro, tailored for the needs of professionals and small offices,
supports up to 50 PCs, rolls out secure, remote access for multiple users in minutes, and features an administration website in which managers can add, suspend and delete users and run usage reports. GoToMyPC®Corporate is built for businesses that require detailed reporting, in-depth administration features, assign and
manage remote-access privileges for employees with advanced security features.

Datacenter and Cloud Solutions

Our Datacenter and Cloud Solutions bring lower operating costs, greater flexibility and cloud-enablement to the
enterprise datacenter. These products are also designed to power public “clouds” when used by hosting and cloud service providers. Our datacenter and cloud solutions include virtual infrastructure and application networking products.

Application Networking Products

Citrix NetScaler, Citrix Access Gateway and Citrix Repeater Solutions improve the performance, security and costs of delivering applications, desktops and web content over both public and private
networks:



•Citrix®NetScaler®is an all-in-one Web application delivery controller that makes applications run five times
faster by application accelerator methods such as HTTP compression and caching, ensuring application availability through advanced L4-7 load balancer and content switching methods, increasing application security with an integrated application
firewall and substantially lowering costs by offloading servers for server consolidation. It reduces Web application TCO, optimizes the user experience and makes sure that applications are always available. NetScaler comes in both built-for-purpose
MPX-series hardware appliances powered by our nCore technology and an economical form factor with our VPX virtual appliance that operates with any standard industry server using our XenServer technology.



•Citrix Access Gateway™is an SSL/VPN that securely delivers applications with policy-based SmartAccess control. Users have easy-to-use
secure access to the applications and data they need to be productive. Organizations can cost effectively extend access to datacenter resources from outside the office, while maintaining unprecedented control through comprehensive SmartAccess
policies.



•Citrix Repeater™ Solutionsprovide high-performance application delivery to branch office users that increase productivity and reduce IT
costs in the enterprise branch by delivering local area network-like application performance over the wide area network, or WAN. Appliance products in the Citrix Repeater family of solutions, including Citrix Branch Repeater™







(formerly WANScaler®) and Citrix Branch Repeater®with Windows Server®, developed in partnership with Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft, can accelerate applications to datacenters and mobile workers. The AutoOptimizer™ Engine,
which serves as the cornerstone of the Citrix Repeater architecture, offers flexible deployment options. The Citrix Repeater client software accelerates application delivery to other remote users including those in smaller branch offices, home
offices and business travelers, while users in larger branch offices are supported with Citrix Repeater appliances.

Virtual Infrastructure Products

Citrix XenServer and Citrix
Essentials offer powerful virtual infrastructure for improving operational efficiencies in the enterprise datacenter and for public cloud service providers:



•Citrix®XenServer®is an enterprise-class platform for managing server virtualization in the datacenter as a flexible aggregated
pool of computing and storage resources. Based on the high-performance Xen virtualization engine, XenServer combines comprehensive server virtualization capabilities with scalability, performance and ease-of-use. XenServer is offered free of charge
to any user for unlimited production deployment.



•Citrix Essentials ™ for XenServer®and Hyper-V™, announced in February 2009, adds a set of advanced management and automation capabilities to the Citrix and Microsoft server virtualization
platforms. This solution adds the following capabilities to existing virtualization management systems: lab automation, high availability, provisioning, workflow orchestration and seamless integration with leading storage systems.

License Updates

We provide a convenient way for customers to budget for their product version upgrades annually without having to anticipate variable costs throughout the year.



•Subscription Advantageprovides a convenient way for customers to budget for their Desktop Solutions and Datacenter and Cloud Solutions version
upgrades annually without having to anticipate variable costs throughout the year. The original purchase of these products is typically bundled with one year of Subscription Advantage or customers may elect to purchase subscriptions separately.
Subscription Advantage allows customers to update software versions as they become available during the period of the subscription for free. This includes the software associated with the hardware appliances.

Technical Services

We provide a portfolio of technical services to our business partners and customers to manage the quality of implementation, operation and
support of our solutions. These services are available for additional fees paid on an annual or transactional basis.



•Consulting Serviceshelp ensure the successful implementation of our solutions. Tested methodologies, certified professionals and best practices
developed from real-world experience allow our consulting services organization to provide guidance and support to partners and customers to maximize the effectiveness of their access infrastructure implementations. For pre- and post-sale
consulting, Citrix Consulting, a consulting services organization, provides both exploratory and fee-based consulting services. These services include on-site systems design and implementation services targeted primarily at enterprise-level clients
with complex IT environments. Citrix Consulting is also responsible for the development of best practice knowledge that is disseminated to businesses with which we have a business relationship and end-users through training and written
documentation. Leveraging these best practices enables our integration resellers to provide more complex systems, reach new buyers within existing customer organizations and provide more sophisticated system proposals to prospective customers.



•Technical Support Servicesaccommodate the unique ongoing support needs of customers. Our technical support services are specifically designed
to address the variety of challenges facing access infrastructure environments. We offer several support-level options, global coverage and personalized relationship management. Post-sale technical support is offered through Citrix-operated support
centers located in the United States, Ireland, Japan, Hong Kong, Australia, Singapore and India. In most cases, we provide technical advice to channel distributors and entities with which we have a technology relationship, who act as the first line
of technical assistance for end-users. In addition, Citrix appliance maintenance provides a convenient way for customers to receive technical support, software upgrades, if and when available, for appliances and return material authorization access
in the event of appliance failure. In some cases, end-users can also choose from a Citrix-delivered fee-based support program ranging from one-time incident charges to an enterprise-level support agreement covering multiple sites and servers. In
addition, we also provide free technical advice through online support systems, including our Web-based “Knowledge Center.”



•Product Training & Certificationteaches customers and partners how to optimally utilize our products and keep their organizations
running smoothly. Authorized Citrix training is available when and how it is needed. Traditional or virtual instructor-led training offerings feature Citrix Certified Instructors conducting scheduled classes in a classroom or remote setting at one
of approximately 260 Citrix Authorized Learning Centers™, or CALCs, worldwide. CALCs are staffed







with instructors that have been certified by us and teach their students using Citrix-developed courseware. Self-Paced Online offerings, available to students 24 hours a day, seven days a week,
provide technically robust course content without an instructor and often include hands-on practice via virtual labs. Certifications are available for administrators, engineers and architects.

Our SaaS products generally do not require post-sale services except in the case of some corporate contracts which include integration
services at the time of implementation.

Technology

Our products are based on a full range of industry-standard technologies. In addition, certain of our products are also based on our proprietary technologies.



•Independent Computing Architecture Protocol, or ICA®, consists of server- and client-side technology that allows graphical user interfaces to be transmitted securely over any network, and displayed on almost any client
device. We offer client-side support for Windows-, Macintosh-, Linux-, Windows Phone-, iPhone- and Android-based devices such as PCs, laptops, tablets, thin clients, netbooks and smartphones. ICA allows applications and desktops to run on a central
server enabling centralized management of applications, desktops, end-users, servers, licenses and other system components for greater efficiency and lower cost. ICA enhances information security by minimizing or eliminating data from traveling
across the network by sending and receiving encrypted representation of screen pixels, keystrokes and mouse clicks. ICA is uniquely designed to consume minimal network bandwidth and resist to network latency which allows virtual desktops and
applications to be used over LANs, WANs, WiFi and 3G connections.



•Citrix HDX Technologiesis a family of innovations that optimize the end-to-end user experience in virtual desktop and virtual application
environments. These technologies incorporate our ICA protocol and include HDX Broadcast, MediaStream, Realtime, 3D, Plug-n-Play and IntelliCache features which work together to provide a hi-definition user experience across a wide array of
applications, devices and networks. HDX also provides Adaptive Orchestration which dynamically adjusts HDX capabilities to adapt to specific device, network and application scenarios and to deliver a better user experience.



•NetScaler®Software Packet Engine, or the Packet Engine, forms the foundation of our NetScaler line of products. The Packet Engine allows high-performance networking and packet processing without the need for special purpose hardware.



•Xen®Open
Source Technologyis the basis for our hypervisor products, including XenClient. The Xen®hypervisor
is a key component of the XenServer™ product line. See Part I—Item 1A entitled “Risk Factors,” for more information regarding the open source technology.



•Citrix®Internet Overlay Platformis foundational technology for GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, GoToTraining, GoToAssist and GoToAssist Express. The platform implements one of the largest multicast overlay data networks in the world using the Internet.
It provides proprietary screen-sharing technology that separately optimizes screen transmission for each endpoint device (such as a remote PC during an online meeting or remote access session).



•Citrix®PSTN/VoIP Bridgeis core technology that allows the seamless integration of PSTN/VoIP audio conferencing. This technology is used extensively in our web-based collaboration and communication products including GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar,
GoToTraining, and Hi-Def Conferencing.



•HDFaces™in GoToMeeting®delivers high-definition video conferencing and one-to-many video streaming over the public
Internet. It includes proprietary network transport protocols and transcoding software that optimize video quality for each endpoint device.

Innovation is a core Citrix competency. We have many additional unique inventions that are important enablers of our continued leadership in desktop and application virtualization, web collaboration,
application networking and virtual infrastructure.

Customers

We take a unique approach to solving the challenges of globalization, datacenter consolidation, regulatory compliance, disaster preparedness and competitiveness faced by our customers. In addition, we
help their IT organizations change the cost, complexity, security and inflexibility of enterprise computing. Our products provide new capabilities for collaboration, communication, user support, desktop management, networking and datacenter
management, and we believe they consistently deliver lower business and computing costs. At the same time, our solutions significantly increase business agility, helping our customers to quickly adapt to business, economic and environmental changes.
The strategic value that we offer requires us to engage with multiple buyers, each with a different perspective on the problems we solve. We believe that the primary IT buyers involved in decision-making related to virtual computing solutions are
the following:



•Strategic IT Executives including chief information officers, chief technology officers and vice presidents of infrastructure, who have responsibility
for ensuring that IT services are enablers to business initiatives and are delivered with the best performance, availability, security and cost.







•Desktop Operations Managers who are responsible for managing Windows Desktop environments including corporate help desks.



•IT Infrastructure Managers who are responsible for managing and delivering Windows-based applications.



•Network Architects who are responsible for delivering Web-based applications who have primary responsibility for the WAN infrastructure for all
applications.



•Server Operations Managers who are responsible for specifying datacenter systems and managing daily operations.



•Individuals and professional consumers, or prosumers, who are responsible for choosing personal solutions and helping small business select
simple-to-use computing solutions.



•Small Business Owners who are responsible for choosing the systems needed to support their business goals, such as SaaS.

Technology Relationships

We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future products and go-to-market.
These relationships include cross-licensing, OEM, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers.

Microsoft

Since our inception, we have had a number of license agreements with Microsoft, including patent cross-license and source code licensing
agreements that have provided us access to source code for versions of Microsoft Windows Server. These agreements are not required for our software development processes on Windows Server and do not provide for payments to or from Microsoft. The
agreements are designed to allow Citrix to provide technical support for our products that run on the Microsoft Windows Server platform, including XenApp and XenDesktop. Additionally, we have collaborated with Microsoft on various technologies,
including terminal services, application networking and virtualization.

Additional Relationships

Through our Citrix Ready program, more than 15,000 products have been verified to work with Citrix technologies. In addition, numerous
partners proactively incorporate Citrix products and technologies such as Citrix Receiver, Citrix XenServer, Citrix XenDesktop, Citrix XenClient, Citrix XenApp, Citrix NetScaler and Citrix HDX (ICA) technology into their customer offerings. Our HDX
and Citrix Receiver technologies are often included with or offered for thin clients, industry-standard servers and mobile devices such as Apple iPhone and iPad, Windows Mobile, Blackberry and Google Android devices. Licensees include Dell,
Fujitsu, HP and Wyse Technologies, among others. The XenClient technology is developed in cooperation with Intel and is licensed for shipment by desktop computer manufacturers including Dell and HP.

Research and Development

We focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and core technologies in the virtual computing infrastructure
market and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing products. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers, both directly from and indirectly through our channel
distributors.

We believe that our software development teams and core technologies represent a significant competitive
advantage for us. Included in the software development teams is a group focused on research activities that include prototyping ways to integrate emerging technologies and standards into our product offerings, such as emerging Web services
technologies, management standards and Microsoft’s newest technologies. Many groups within the software development teams have expertise in XML-based software development, integration of acquired technology, multi-tier Web-based application
development and deployment, SSL secure access, hypervisor technologies, VoIP-based audio technology, Web-based video technology and building software as a service. We maintain teams located close to Microsoft in Redmond, Washington which are focused
on enhancing and adding value to the next generation of Microsoft Windows Server, virtualization and management products. We incurred research and development expenses of approximately $326.6 million in 2010, $282.0 million in 2009 and $288.1
million in 2008.

Sales, Marketing and Services

We market and license our products and services through multiple channels worldwide, including VARs, VADs, SIs, independent software vendors, or ISVs, direct over-the-web and OEMs. These distribution
channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. We provide training and certification to integrators, VARs and consultants for a full-range of Citrix-based infrastructure products, solutions and services through our Citrix
Partner Network program to members known as Citrix Solution Advisors™. In addition, our Online Services division provides software as a service through direct corporate sales and direct over-the-web through our websites.







We offer perpetual and term-based software licenses for our products, along with annual
subscriptions for software updates, technical support and online services. Perpetual licenses allow our customers to use the version of software initially purchased into perpetuity, while term-based licenses are limited to a specified period of
time. Software update subscriptions give customers the right to upgrade to new software versions if and when any updates are delivered during the subscription term. Perpetual license software products come primarily in electronic-based forms and, in
selected markets, we offer pre-packaged shrink-wrap products to meet local customer needs. Our Online Services SaaS products are accessed over the Internet for usage during the subscription period. Our hardware appliances come pre-loaded with
software for which customers can purchase perpetual licenses and annual support and maintenance.

Our corporate marketing
organization provides sales event support, sales collateral, advertising, direct mail and public relations coverage to our indirect channels to aid in market development and in attracting new customers. Our partner development organization actively
supports our VADs and VARs to improve their commitment and capabilities with Citrix solutions. Our customer sales organization consists of field-based systems sales engineers and corporate sales professionals who work directly with our largest
customers and coordinate integration services provided by our VARs and SIs. Additional sales personnel, working in central locations and in the field, provide additional support including recruitment of prospective partners and technical training
with respect to our products.

Although we work with multiple VADs and VARs, one distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted for 17%
of our total net revenues in 2010, 14% of our total net revenues in 2009 and 12% of our total net revenues in 2008. Our channel distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its
subsidiaries, each of which covers different countries or regions. Each of these agreements is separately negotiated and is independent of any other contract (such as a master distribution agreement). None of these contracts was individually
responsible for over 10% of our total net revenues in each of the last three fiscal years. In addition, there was no individual VAR that accounted for over 10% of our total net revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008.

The Citrix Partner Network™ includes three categories of partners: Citrix Solution Advisors™, Citrix Ready®Technology Partners, and Citrix Global SIs™. This network represents the knowledge, skills and experience of
the entire spectrum of our partners around the world, and makes it easier for end-users to engage their services and benefit from their solutions. Equally important, the Citrix Partner Network is designed to help partners build their business by
sharing in opportunities for virtualization and networking optimization solutions that arise from mutual customers and complement the sale of their own products.

We are not obligated to accept product returns from our channel distributors under any conditions, unless the product item is defective in manufacture. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 for
information regarding our revenue recognition policy.

International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for
approximately 43% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, 44% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 46% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. For detailed information on our
international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Segment Revenue

During the first quarter of 2010, we changed how we
measure profitability internally, develop our annual plan and allocate our resources from a geography-based approach (which included the Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa; Asia-Pacific and our Online Services division), to a product
division-based approach. This change reflects how we market and sell our products. Accordingly, we have revised our reportable segments to reflect the way we are currently managing and viewing the business. Our revenues are derived from sales of
Enterprise division products which primarily include our Desktop Solutions, Datacenter and Cloud







Solutions and related technical services and from our Online Services division’s web collaboration, remote access and support services. The Enterprise division and the Online Services
division constitute our two reportable segments. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Operations

We control all purchasing, inventory, scheduling, order processing and accounting functions related to our operations. For our software products, production, warehousing and shipping are performed by
our independent contractor HP, Ireland. Master software CD-ROMs, development of user manuals, packaging designs, initial product quality control and testing are primarily performed at our facilities. In some cases, independent contractors also
duplicate CD-ROMs, print documentation and package and assemble products to our specifications.

While it is generally our
practice to promptly ship product upon receipt of properly finalized purchase orders, we sometimes have orders that have not shipped upon receipt of a purchase order. Although the amount of such product license orders may vary, the amount, if any,
of such orders at the end of a fiscal year is not material to our business. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance.

We believe that our fourth quarter revenues and expenses are affected by a number of seasonal factors, including the lapse of many
corporations’ fiscal year budgets and an increase in amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans due to compensation plan accelerators that are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common
within our industry. Such factors historically have resulted in first quarter revenues in any year being lower than the immediately preceding fourth quarter. We expect this trend to continue through the first quarter of 2011. In addition, our
European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues.

Competition

We sell our
products in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. As the markets for our products and services continue
to develop, additional companies, including those with significant market presence in the computer appliances, software and networking industries could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe
price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial
condition. See “—Technology Relationships” and Part I—Item 1A entitled “Risk Factors.”

Desktop Solutions

We have established a very large installed customer base in the application virtualization market due to our early success applying this solution to remote access challenges. Today, this technology is
part of an evolution to a new way of managing desktops which is establishing a larger, encompassing market defined as desktop virtualization. Our primary competition in this market is the existing IT desktop management practice of manually
configuring physical desktops which is time-consuming, expensive and inconsistent. We also face numerous competitors that provide automation of these processes and alternative approaches including VMWare’s View product. We believe XenDesktop
gives Citrix a competitive advantage by providing customers multiple ways to manage desktops within one, integrated desktop virtualization system.







Online Services

Our SaaS products for web collaboration, remote support and remote access continue to maintain solid leadership positions, particularly
among small and medium-sized businesses, or SMBs, in extremely competitive markets. We differentiate our SaaS products by designing simple, secure, reliable and cost-efficient services that deliver superior customer experience. Our competitors range
from large, established technology firms to small, internet-based startups.

We have been a market leader in SaaS-based secure
remote access with our GoToMyPC product for many years. Our direct competition includes LogMeIn, free solutions such as Microsoft’s Live Mesh and those from many internet startups. In addition, new remote access features in desktop operating
systems like Microsoft Windows and Macintosh OSX provide alternatives to our solution. We differentiate by continuing our focus on security, ease-of-use and support for multiple desktop operating systems.

In web collaboration, we compete primarily with Cisco Systems, Inc.’s, or Cisco’s, WebEx product which
currently has the leading market share in this space. Our products, GoToMeeting and GoToWebinar, have proven competitive based on ease-of-use and the All You Can Meet®pricing model. In 2008, we acquired an audio services company, with advanced VoIP-based audio technology, giving us an opportunity to market audio conference calling
services directly to SMBs and enterprises. We further differentiate our collaboration products by integrating PSTN, VoIP and toll-free audio services. We believe these features give us competitive advantage among individual, prosumer and SMB
customers. We expect to continue to expand our collaboration offerings with GoToTraining™, an online training service purpose-built for the corporate training market.

Our on-demand support products, marketed under the GoToAssist brand, have achieved the largest market share worldwide for Web-based clientless remote support. This product line includes versions
purpose-built for individual users, consultants and small businesses, positioning Citrix as the only provider of remote support solutions for all segments of the market. In remote support, we compete with Cisco’s WebEx and LogMeIn.

In addition, to accelerate the European expansion of our Online Services division’s SaaS products, in February 2011, we acquired
Netviewer AG, or Netviewer, a privately held European SaaS vendor in collaboration and IT services. Netviewer will become part of our Online Services division and enable the extension of our SaaS leadership in Europe.

Datacenter and Cloud Solutions

In the server virtualization market, we compete directly with VMware which was first to market with this technology and is widely regarded as the market leader. We believe XenServer, our server
virtualization product, has features that are competitive with VMware’s ESX Server in terms of performance, scalability and other enterprise-class capabilities. XenServer is offered as a free download which significantly increases the reach of
server virtualization to customers of all sizes and geographies. In 2008, Microsoft entered this market with a hypervisor-based server virtualization product called Hyper-V which is also available free of charge. We monetize the XenServer and
Hyper-V products by selling advanced management, storage integration and automation capabilities offered through
Citrix®Essentials™.

Our NetScaler web application delivery products compete against other established competitors including, Cisco and F5 Networks, Inc., or F5. Both compete with us for traditional enterprise sales
opportunities, while F5 is our principal competitor in the Internet-centric market segment. We continue to enhance NetScaler’s feature capability and aggressively market NetScaler to our existing customer base.

Our Access Gateway or SSL/VPN product faces competition from Cisco and Juniper Networks, Inc., or Juniper. Both competitors are well
known and established in the SSL/VPN market. In contrast, we have not had a presence in that market for as long as our competitors and we do not command the same level of brand recognition. We do, however, have the largest market share measured in
units. Our competitive success in this market has come from bundling our SSL/VPN product with our other products, primarily XenApp, to offer a comprehensive end-to-end virtual computing solution, a key differentiator for us.

Our Citrix Repeater family of products competes with Cisco, Riverbed Technology, Inc., or Riverbed, and Blue Coat Systems, or Blue Coat.
Cisco enjoys the largest market share, benefiting from their leadership in the networking market. Riverbed and Blue Coat are less established companies than Citrix, but have the advantage of being focused solely on WAN optimization. We continue to
develop enhanced features and functionality for our Citrix Repeater products, in addition to optimizing their performance with existing Citrix products, to differentiate them from our competition. We are also able to bundle them with existing
products and aggressively market them to our installed-base, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage.

Proprietary Technology

Our success is dependent upon certain proprietary technologies and core intellectual property. We have
been awarded numerous domestic and foreign patents and have numerous pending patent applications in the United States and foreign countries. Our technology is also protected under copyright laws. Additionally, we rely on trade secret protection and
confidentiality and proprietary information agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We have trademarks or registered trademarks in the United States and other countries, including Citrix®, Citrix Access Gateway™,
Citrix Cloud Center™, Citrix Essentials™, Citrix Receiver™, Citrix







Repeater™, Citrix Subscription Advantage™, Citrix Synergy™, Branch Repeater®, Dazzle®, EdgeSight®, FlexCast™, GoToAssist®, GoToMeeting®, GoToMyPC®, GoToWebinar®, GoToTraining®, GoView®, GoToLabs™, GoToManage®, HiDef Conferencing®, HiDef
Corporate®, ICA®, nCore™, NetScaler®, Simplicity is Power™, Support Smarter®, VPX™, Xen®, XenApp®, XenCenter®, XenClient™, XenDesktop®, XenEnterprise®, XenMotion®XenServer®, Xen Source®and Xen Summit®. While our competitive position could be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information, we believe that because of the rapid pace of technological
change in the industry, factors such as the technical expertise, knowledge and innovative skill of our management and technical personnel, our technology relationships, name recognition, the timeliness and quality of support services provided by us
and our ability to rapidly develop, enhance and market software products could be more significant in maintaining our competitive position. See Part I—Item 1A entitled “Risk Factors.”

Available Information

Our Internet address is http://www.citrix.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual reports on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after
such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2010, we had 5,637 employees. We believe our relations with employees are good. In certain countries outside the United States, our relations with employees are governed by labor regulations that provide for specific terms of
employment between our company and our employees.



