ITEM 1A.       RISK
FACTORS



In addition to the other information in this report,
you should carefully consider the following risks. If any of the following
risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or operating
results could be materially adversely affected. The risk factors summarized
below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not
currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating
results.



Changes
in consumer preferences may reduce demand for some of our products.



There is increasing
awareness of and concern for the health consequences of obesity. This may
reduce demand for our non-diet beverages, which could affect our profitability.



Consumers are seeking greater variety in their
beverages. Our future success will depend,
in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce different and
innovative beverages. In order to retain and expand our market share, we must
continue to develop and introduce different and innovative beverages and be
competitive in the areas of taste, quality and health, although there can be no
assurance of our ability to do so. There is no assurance that consumers
will continue to purchase our products in the future. Additionally, many of our
products are considered premium products and to maintain market share during
recessionary periods we may have to reduce profit margins, which would
adversely affect our results of operations. Product lifecycles for some
beverage brands and/or products and/or packages may be limited to a few years
before consumers’ preferences change. The beverages we currently market are in
varying stages of their product lifecycles and there can be no assurance that
such beverages will become or remain profitable for us. The beverage industry is subject to changing consumer preferences and
shifts in consumer preferences may adversely affect us if we misjudge such
preferences. We may be unable to achieve volume growth through product and
packaging initiatives. We also may be unable to penetrate new markets. If
our revenues decline, our business, financial condition and results of
operations will be adversely affected.



Significant
changes in government regulation may hinder sales.



The production, distribution and sale in the United
States of many of our products are subject to various federal and state
regulations, including, but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act; the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994; the Occupational
Safety and Health Act; various environmental statutes; and various other
federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production,
transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such
products. New statutes and regulations may also be instituted in the future.  If a regulatory authority finds that a
current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of
these regulations, we may be fined, or such products may have to be recalled
and/or reformulated and/or have the packaging changed, thus adversely affecting
our financial condition and operations. In particular, California law requires
that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed
by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth
defects. While we do not believe that any of our beverage products are required
to display warnings under this law, we cannot predict whether an important
component of any of our products might be added to the California list in the
future. We also are unable to predict whether or to what extent a warning under
this law would have an impact on costs or sales of our products.



Public
health officials and health advocates are focusing on obesity, especially among
children, and are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sweetened
beverages. Possible new local and/or county and/or state and/or federal taxes,
increased regulation on labeling and negative publicity may reduce sales of our
products and may adversely affect our financial condition or results of
operations.










Additionally,
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has recently proposed revising
regulations with respect to serving size information and nutrition labeling on
food and beverage products.  If
definitive regulation is promulgated, we may incur significant costs to alter
our existing packaging materials to comply with such regulations.  Additionally, revised serving size
information may impact and/or reduce and/or otherwise affect the purchase and
consumption of our products by our consumers.



The
ongoing economic downturn and continued uncertainty in the financial markets
and other adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of
the major countries in which we do business may adversely affect our industry,
business and results of operations.



The global credit and financial markets have continued
to experience extreme disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and
credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic
growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic
stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further
deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic
conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a
number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future
business activities. The current adverse global economic conditions and
tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers to postpone
spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their
existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties
experienced by our suppliers or customers could result in product delays,
increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. We are unable
to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the
credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions, and if the
current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our
business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.



Operations
outside the United States expose us to uncertain conditions and other risks in
international markets.





Fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results.



We are
exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales,
expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than
the U.S. dollar. We have not used instruments to hedge certain foreign currency
risks and are not protected against foreign currency fluctuations. As a result,
our reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results
from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be
unsustainable over time.










Increased competition could hurt our business.



The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of
competition are pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors and
marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced
by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially
greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do.



Important
factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include the taste and
flavor of our products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective
development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different
packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with
all liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially
better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and
internationally known producers such as TCCC, PepsiCo, Red Bull Gmbh, the DPS
Group, Kraft Foods Inc., and Nestle Beverage Company. We also compete with companies
that are smaller or primarily national or local in operations such as Tree Top
and Ocean Spray. Our products also compete with private label brands such as
those carried by grocery store chains, convenience store chains, and club
stores. Our Java MonsterTMproduct line competes directly with Starbucks
Frappuccino, Starbucks Double Shot, Starbucks Double Shot Energy Plus Coffee
and other Starbucks coffee drinks, Rockstar Roasted, Caribou Coffee, Cinnabon
coffee drinks, Godiva dairy based drinks and Full Throttle Coffee.



There can be no assurance that we will not encounter
difficulties in maintaining our current revenues or market share or position
due to competition in the beverage industry. If our revenues decline, our
business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely
affected.



We derive a substantial portion of revenues from
our energy drinks and competitive pressure in the “energy drink” category could
adversely affect our operating results.





We rely
on bottlers and other contract packers to manufacture our products. If we are
unable to maintain good relationships with our bottlers and contract packers
and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or
unavailable to us, our business could suffer.



We do not directly manufacture our products, but
instead outsource such manufacturing to bottlers and other contract packers.In the event of a disruption or delay, we
may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities at commercially
reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period. In addition,
there are limited alternative packing facilities in the United States, Canada,
Australia, Brazil, the United Kingdom and Europe with adequate capacity and/or
suitable equipment for many of










our products, including Hansen’s® brand energy drinks
in 8.3-ounce cans, our PET tea line, Hansen’s® Sparkling beverages in
10.5-ounce sleek cans, aseptic juice products, juices in 64-ounce PET plastic
bottles, Monster Energy®, NitrousTMMonster Energy®, X-Presso MonsterTM-Hammer, Lost® EnergyTMand Rumba®, Samba, Tango energy drinks in
6.75-ounce and/or 8.3-ounce and/or 12-ounce and/or 15.5-ounce and/or 16-ounce
and/or 24-ounce and/or 32-ounce and/or 500ml aluminum cans and/or 550ml BRE aluminum
cans and/or 500ml glass bottles and/or 12-ounce, 15-ounce and 24-ounce aluminum
cap cans, our Java MonsterTMproduct line in 15-ounce aluminum cans,
Monster Hitman Energy ShooterTM’s, our
Peace TeaTMproduct
line in 23-ounce aluminum cans and other products. A disruption or delay in
production of any of such products could significantly affect our revenues from
such products as alternative co-packing facilities in the United States and
abroad with adequate capacity may not be available for such products either at
commercially reasonable rates, and/or within a reasonably short time period, if
at all. Consequently, a disruption in production of such products could
adversely affect our revenues.



We rely on bottlers and distributors to distribute our DSD
products.  If we are unable to maintain
good relationships with our existing bottlers and distributors and/or secure
such bottlers and distributors, our business could suffer.



We continually seek to expand distribution of our products by entering
into agreements with regional bottlers or other direct store delivery
distributors having established sales, marketing and distribution
organizations. Many of our bottlers and distributors are affiliated with and
manufacture and/or distribute other soda, carbonated and non-carbonated brands
and other beverage products (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic), including
energy drinks. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products.



The
TCCC North American Bottlers and AB Distributors are our primary domestic and
international distributors of our Monster Energy® beverages. If we are unable
to maintain good relationships with the TCCC North American Bottlers and AB
Distributors, or if the TCCC North American Bottlers and/or AB Distributors do
not market and promote our products above the products of our competitors,
sales of our Monster Energy® beverages could be adversely affected. The
recently announced proposed transactions between CCE and TCCC could affect our
existing distribution arrangements. Detailed deal terms have not yet been fully
disclosed. We are in the process of evaluating the potential impact the
proposed transactions could have on the distribution of our products.



The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our
success. If our DSD brands prove to be less attractive to our existing bottlers
and distributors and/or if we fail to attract additional bottlers and
distributors, and/or our bottlers and/or distributors do not market and promote
our products with greater focus in preference to the products of our
competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could
be adversely affected.



Our customers are material to our success.  If we are unable to maintain good
relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer.



Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, convenience
chains, grocery chains, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers
to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at
any time, which could cause our business to suffer.



The DPS Group, a former customer of the DSD division, accounted for
approximately 13% and 16% of our net sales for the years ended December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. Our distribution agreement with the DPS Group was
terminated by us effective November 9, 2008. The related terminated
distributor territories are now serviced by a combination of the TCCC North
American Bottlers and AB Distributors. If the TCCC North American Bottlers
and/or AB Distributors are generally not as successful in selling our products
as the DPS Group was, this could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and consolidated results of operations.










CCE, a customer of the DSD segment with sales in specific markets in
the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and certain countries in Europe,
accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales for the year ended December 31,
2009. Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club), a customer of both the DSD
and Warehouse divisions, accounted for approximately 9%, 11% and 12% of our net
sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. A decision by CCE, Wal-Mart, Inc. (including Sam’s Club) or
any other large customer to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease
carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and consolidated results of operations.



Increases
in cost or shortages of raw materials or increases in costs of co-packing could
harm our business.



The principal raw materials used by us are aluminum cans, PET plastic
bottles, as well as juice concentrates, sugar, sucralose, milk and cream, the
costs of which are subject to fluctuations. In addition, certain of our co-pack
arrangements allow such co-packers to increase their charges based on certain
of their own cost increases. We are uncertain whether the prices of any of the
above or any other raw materials or ingredients will rise in the future and
whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers. We
do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage the risks
associated with securing sufficient ingredients or raw materials.



In addition, some of these raw materials, such as
certain sizes of cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers.



Our
failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect
our business and financial results.



We may
not correctly estimate demand for our products. 
Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise,
particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid
growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for
our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials
including, but not limited to, PET plastic bottles, cans, glass, labels,
sucralose, flavors, supplements, juice concentrates, certain sweeteners, or
packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term
basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain juice concentrates,
supplements and sweeteners have been and could, from time to time in the
future, be experienced. Such shortages could interfere with and/or delay
production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect
on our business and financial results. We generally do not use hedging
agreements or alternative instruments to manage this risk.



The costs
of packaging supplies are subject to price increases from time to time and we
may be unable to pass all or some of such increased costs on to our customers.



Many of our packaging supplies contracts allow our
suppliers to alter the costs they charge us for packaging supplies based on
changes in the costs of the underlying commodities that are used to produce
those packaging supplies, such as resin for PET bottles, aluminum for cans and
pulp and paper for cartons and/or trays. These changes in the prices we pay for
our packaging supplies occur at certain predetermined times that vary by
product and supplier. In some cases, we fix the prices of certain packaging
supplies for a reasonable period. In other cases, we bear the risk of increases
in the costs of these packaging supplies, including the underlying costs of the
commodities that comprise these packaging supplies. We do not use derivative
instruments to manage this risk. If the costs of these packaging supplies
increase, we may be unable to pass these costs along to our customers through
corresponding adjustments to the prices we charge, which could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.










We rely
upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers.  If we are unable to source our flavors on
acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our
business.



Generally,
flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. Consequently, we
do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and certain of
our concentrates readily available to us and we may be unable to obtain these
flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. If we must
replace a flavor supplier, we could experience temporary disruptions in our
ability to deliver products to our customers which could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.



Our
intellectual property rights are critical to our success, and the loss of such
rights could materially adversely affect our business.



We own numerous trademarks that are very important
to our business.  We also own the
copyright in and to a portion of the content on the packaging of our products.
We regard our trademarks, copyrights, and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success and attempt to protect such intellectual property with
registered and common law trademarks and copyrights, restrictions on disclosure
and other actions to prevent infringement. However, there can be no assurance
that other third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks and
similar proprietary rights. If we lose some or all of our intellectual property
rights, our business may be materially adversely affected.



If we are
unable to maintain brand image or product quality, or if we encounter product
recalls, our business may suffer.



Our success depends on our ability to build and
maintain brand image for our existing products, new products and brand
extensions. We have no assurance that our advertising, marketing and
promotional programs will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image
and on consumer preferences. Product quality and/or ingredient content issues,
efficacy or lack thereof, real or imagined, or allegations of product
contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the
affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. We may be
required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific
co-packers, markets or batches. Product recalls could adversely affect our
profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance.



While
we have to date not experienced any credible product liability litigation,
there is no assurance that we will not experience such litigation in the
future. In the event we were to experience product liability claims or a
product recall, our financial condition and business operations could be
materially adversely effected.



If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels
or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient
quantities, or if our retailers’ inventory levels are too high, our operating
results will be adversely affected.



If we do not accurately
anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take
to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our
results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to meet our
shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or
retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be
delayed or lost. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis,
we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. If the
inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too
high, they will not place orders for additional products, which would
unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results.



If we are
not able to retain the full-time services of senior management there may be an
adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating performance until we find
suitable replacements.










Our business is dependent, to a large extent, upon
the services of our senior management. 
We do not maintain key person life insurance for any members of our
senior management. The loss of services of either Mr. Sacks, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Schlosberg, President and Chief Financial
Officer, Mr. Hall, President of the Monster Beverage Division, or any other key
members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until
suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel
with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to
locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.



Climate
change may negatively affect our business.



There is concern that a gradual increase in global
average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around
the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters.
While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of
our products, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural
productivity in certain regions, which may limit availability or increase the
cost of certain key ingredients used in our products. Increased frequency or
duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production
capabilities, disrupt our supply chain including, without limitation, the
availability of and/or result in higher prices for juice concentrates and
natural flavors, or impact demand for our products. In addition, public
expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in
increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to
make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the
effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business
and results of operations. Sales of our products may also be influenced to some
extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Weather
conditions may influence consumer demand for certain of our beverages, which
could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.



Potential
changes in accounting practices and/or taxation may adversely affect our
financial results.



We cannot predict the impact that future changes in
accounting standards or practices may have on our financial results. New
accounting standards could be issued that change the way we record revenues,
expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could
adversely affect our reported earnings. Increases in direct and indirect income
tax rates could affect after tax income. 
Equally, increases in indirect taxes (including environmental taxes
pertaining to the disposal of beverage containers) could affect our products’
affordability and reduce our sales.



Volatility
of stock price may restrict sale opportunities.



Our
stock price is affected by a number of factors, including stockholder
expectations, financial results, the introduction of new products by us and our
competitors, general economic and market conditions, estimates and projections
by the investment community and public comments by other persons and many other
factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to achieve
analysts’ earnings forecasts, which may be based on projected volumes and sales
of many product types and/or new products, certain of which are more profitable
than others. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve projected
levels or mixes of product sales. As a result, our stock price is subject to
significant volatility and stockholders may not be able to sell our stock at
attractive prices. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, our
stock price high was $44.02 and stock price low was $27.91.



Provisions
in our organizational documents and control by insiders may prevent changes in
control even if such changes would be beneficial to other stockholders.



Our organizational documents may limit changes in
control. Furthermore, as of February 12, 2010, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg
together may be deemed to control approximately 24.8% of our outstanding common
stock. Consequently, Mr. Sacks and Mr. Schlosberg could exercise
significant control over matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders,
including electing directors, amending organizational documents and
disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt, even though
such actions may be favorable to the other common stockholders.










Our cash
flow may not be sufficient to fund our long term goals.



We may
be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to support our capital expenditure
plans and general operating activities. In addition, the terms and/or
availability of our credit facility and/or the activities of our creditors
could affect the financing of our future growth.



Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may
cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.



At December 31,
2009, we had $328.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $99.3 million in
short- and long-term investments. We have historically invested these amounts
in U.S. Treasury bills, government agencies and municipal securities (which may
have an auction reset feature), corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper and
money market funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are
subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may
be exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various
sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. These
market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative
adverse effect on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial
condition. At the current time, we are not increasing our investments in
auction rate securities nor investing in corporate bonds.





If the
issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to refinance their debts
and call the notes or successfully close future auctions and their credit
ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional impairment charges
on these investments in the future. If uncertainties in the credit and capital
markets continue or there are ratings downgrades on the auction rate securities
held by us, we may be










required to recognize
additional impairments on these investments. We may be required to wait until
market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity
of the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’
recorded value (See “Part II, Item 7A – Qualitative And Quantitative
Disclosures About Market Risks” and “Part II, Item 8, Note 2 and 3 in our
consolidated financial statements).



If we fail to maintain effective
disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial
reporting on a consolidated basis, our stock price and investor confidence in
our Company could be materially and adversely affected.



We are required to maintain both disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective
for the purposes described in “Part II, Item 9A – Controls and Procedures.”
If we fail to do so, our business, results of operations, financial condition
or the value of our stock could be materially harmed.



Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to
significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results.



We are
a party, from time to time, to various litigation claims and legal proceedings,
including, but not limited to, intellectual property, fraud, unfair business
practices and false advertising, breach of contract claims, securities actions
and shareholder derivative actions. Material legal proceedings are described
more fully in “Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and in Part II,
Item 8, Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K.



Defending
these proceedings will result in significant ongoing expenditures and the
continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation
of our business, which could have a negative effect on our business operations.
Our failure to successfully defend or settle any of these litigations or legal
proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our
insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions,
revenue and profitability, and could cause the market value of our common stock
to decline.



We must continually
maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems.



We
rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. During
2009, we commenced the implementation of the SAP enterprise resource planning
system to replace our legacy systems in North America. This implementation
subjects us to take on inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and
changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer
orders, potential disruption of the internal control structure, substantial
capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or
difficulties in transitioning to a new system. The implementation of this
system may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs
the costs of implementation, or at all. Any information technology system
disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an
adverse effect on our business and operations. As of January 2010, we had
completed our North American transition to the SAP enterprise resource planning
system. It is our intention to complete the transition for our international
operations within fiscal 2010. We estimate the remaining costs for
implementation of the initiative will be approximately $0.8 million.



