Item 1A.RISK FACTORS

This report
and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our
management’s assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties facing our
business. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international
operations. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity and stock price materially and adversely.

Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval.

Our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, including the
FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the EMA. We are required in the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we can manufacture, market and sell our products. Once approved, the
FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to require additional testing, change product labeling or mandate withdrawals of our products. Also, regulatory agencies could add new regulations or change existing
regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products. Regulatory reform efforts currently under discussion by U.S. policymakers may include changes to applicable laws and regulations that could have
a significant impact on our business. For example, the 2007 creation of the FDAAA significantly added to the FDA’s authority, allowing the FDA to (i) require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical stud
- -







ies; (ii) mandate labeling changes to products and (iii) require sponsors to implement a REMS for a product. Failure to comply with FDAAA requirements could result in significant civil
monetary penalties, reputational harm and increased product liability risk. We are unable to predict when and whether any changes to regulatory policy affecting our business could occur, and such changes could have a material adverse impact on our
business.

Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval has been and will continue to be increasingly
difficult, time-consuming and costly. For example, in October 2009 we received Complete Response Letters from the FDA for the BLA for our late-stage product candidate Prolia

TM

in the treatment and prevention of PMO and in the treatment and prevention of bone loss due to HALT in breast and
prostate cancer patients. The Complete Response Letter related to the PMO indication requested several items, including further information on the design and background adverse event rates that will inform the methodology of our previously submitted
post-marketing surveillance program. The FDA also requested a new clinical program to support approval of Prolia

TM

for the prevention of PMO, updated safety data and stated that a REMS is necessary for Prolia

TM

. The Complete Response Letter related to the HALT indication requested additional information regarding the safety of
Prolia

TM

in patients with breast cancer receiving
aromatase inhibitor therapy and patients with prostate cancer receiving ADT. The FDA specifically requested results from additional adequate and well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating that Prolia

TM

has no detrimental effects on either time to disease progression or
OS. On February 19, 2010, we announced that the FDA has evaluated the content of our Complete Response submission for Prolia

TM

in the treatment of PMO, which we submitted on January 25, 2010, and classified it as a Class 2 resubmission. With the
Class 2 designation, the FDA set a corresponding PDUFA action date of July 25, 2010. A significant delay in regulatory approval to market and sell Prolia

TM

for the treatment of PMO could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.

®

®

®

®

®

KRAS

The occurrence of a number of high profile safety events has caused an increased public and governmental concern about potential safety
issues relating to pharmaceutical and biological products and certain of our products and product candidates. (See “—Our ESA products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.”) As a result of
this increased concern, safety signals and safety concerns resulting from clinical trials (including sub-analyses and meta-analyses), market use or other sources are receiving greater scrutiny. Actual or perceived safety problems could lead to
significant revised or restrictive labeling of our approved products or a class of products, potentially including limitations on the use of approved products in certain patients because of:



•the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns with respect to any of our products by regulatory agencies







•an increased rate or number of previously-identified safety-related events



•the discovery of significant problems or safety signals or trends with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products



•subsequent concerns about the sufficiency of the data or studies underlying the label or changes to the underlying safety/efficacy analysis related to
results from clinical trials, including sub-analyses, or meta-analysis (a meta-analysis is the review of studies using various statistical methods to combine results from previous separate but related studies) of clinical trials or clinical data
performed by us or others



•new legislation or rules by regulatory agencies

For example, on December 16, 2009, based on the TREAT results, we updated the boxed warning in the labeling information for ESAs, to reflect an increased risk of stroke when ESAs are
administered to CRF patients to target Hb levels of 13 g/dL and above. (See —“Our ESA products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.”)

In addition to revised labeling for our products, discovery of new safety information or previously unknown safety concerns and/or safety
signals with our products could also lead to:



•requirement of risk management activities (including a REMS) related to the promotion and sale of our products



•mandated PMCs or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved products



•product recalls of certain of our approved products



•revocation of approval for our products from the market completely, or within particular therapeutic areas, and/or



•delay in or fewer treatments being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies

Product safety concerns could cause regulatory agencies to impose risk management activities upon us (including a REMS), which may require
substantial costs and resources to negotiate, develop and implement. The results of these risk management activities could:



•impact the ability of healthcare providers to prescribe, dispense or use our products



•limit patient access to our products



•place administrative burdens on healthcare providers in prescribing our products, or



•affect our ability to compete against products that do not have a REMS or similar risk management activities

We currently have approved REMS for our ESAs, ENBREL and Nplate®and are currently in discussions with the FDA regarding an update to the existing REMS for ENBREL and a REMS for our product candidate ProliaTM.

Further, if new medical data or product quality issues suggest an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified
side-effects, we may withdraw some or all affected product — either voluntarily or by regulatory mandate — in certain therapeutic areas, or completely recall a product presentation from the market for some period or permanently. For
example, in September 2009, we initiated a voluntary recall of a limited number of ENBREL SureClick®lots due to
a defect in the glass syringe barrel which resulted in a small number of broken syringes following assembly of the autoinjector device. We may experience the same or other problems in the future resulting in broader product recalls or adverse event
trends, which may adversely affect the sales of our products. Additionally, if other parties (including our licensees, such as J&J and Pfizer, or independent investigators) report or fail to effectively report to regulatory agencies side effects
or other safety concerns that occur from their use of our products in clinical trials or studies or from marketed use, resulting regulatory action could adversely affect the sales of our products and our business and results of operations.

If regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied with regulations in the R&D of a product candidate, a new
indication for an existing product or information to support a current indication, they may not







approve the product candidate or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication in its current form or at all, and we would not be able to market and sell it. If we were unable to
market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Further, safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies performed by us or by
others (including our licensees or independent investigators) from the marketed use of our drugs that result in revised safety-related labeling or restrictions on the use of our approved products could negatively impact healthcare provider
prescribing behavior, use of our products, regulatory or private health organization medical guidelines and reimbursement for our products all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Our ESA products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.

®

New England Journal of Medicine

New England Journal of Medicine

Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approva

l

“Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement
from third-party payers.”

We also have ongoing PMC studies for our ESAs which must be conducted
to maintain regulatory approval and marketing authorization. We have agreed with the FDA to a robust pharmacovigilance program to continue to study the safety surrounding the use of ESAs in the oncology setting and we initiated Study 782 as part of
our Aranesp®pharmacovigilance program, a phase 3 non-inferiority study evaluating OS when comparing NSCLC
patients on Aranesp®to patients receiving placebo. We are currently identifying clinical sites for Study 782
and have begun enrolling patients in the study. Further, in 2008 the FDA and EMA reviewed interim results from the Preoperative Epirubicin Paclitaxel Aranesp®(“PREPARE”) study in neo-adjuvant breast cancer, a PMC study, which were ultimately incorporated into the ESA labeling in both the United States and the EU.
We received the final results from the PREPARE study in 2009, which were substantially consistent with the interim results, and provided that data to the FDA and EMA. Although we cannot predict the results or the outcomes of ongoing clinical
trials, or the extent to which regulatory authorities may require additional labeling changes as a result of these or other trials, we cannot exclude the possibility that adverse results from clinical trials, including PMCs, could have a material
adverse impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of our ESAs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.







Regulatory authorities outside the United States have also reviewed and
scrutinized the use of our ESA products. In June 2008, the EMA recommended updating the product information for ESAs with a new warning for their use in cancer patients, which was approved by the European Commission in October 2008. The product
information for all ESAs was updated to advise that in some clinical situations blood transfusions should be the preferred treatment for the management of anemia in patients with cancer and that the decision to administer ESAs should be based on a
benefit-risk assessment with the participation of the individual patient. Since the October 2008 revision, we have experienced a reduction of Aranesp®sales in the supportive cancer care setting in the EU and, although we cannot predict what further impact the revised EU ESA product information could have on our
business, the reimbursement, use and sales of Aranesp®in Europe could further be materially adversely affected,
which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Moreover, we continue to receive results
from meta-analyses or previously initiated clinical trials using ESAs, including PMCs, and adverse results could negatively impact the use and sales of our ESAs. For example, in September 2008, we announced that we had received a summary of
preliminary results from the Cochrane Collaboration’s independent meta-analysis of patient-level data from previously conducted, randomized, controlled, clinical studies evaluating ESAs in cancer patients which we submitted to the FDA and the
EMA. This Cochrane meta-analysis of patient-level data from previous studies corroborates prior analyses indicating that the use of ESAs may increase the risk of death in cancer patients. The studies in the analysis all predate the current label,
which advises using the least amount of ESA necessary to avoid transfusion but they do not exclude the potential for adverse outcomes when ESAs are prescribed according to the current label.

We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new
indications.

.

“Our current products and products in
development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval.”







Patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of our, our
licensees, partners or independent investigator’s clinical trials which could:



•delay the clinical trial program



•require additional or longer trials to gain approval



•prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or new indications for existing products



•render the product candidate commercially unfeasible or limit our ability to market existing products completely or in certain therapeutic areas.

Clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard of medical care. However in certain diseases,
such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In these diseases, the duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on an out of date standard of medical care,
limiting the utility and application of such trials. We may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates, new indications for existing products or maintenance of our current
labels on this basis. Further, clinical trials conducted by others, including our licensees, partners or independent investigators, may result in unfavorable clinical trials results that may call into question the safety of our products in off-label
or on label uses that may result in label restrictions and/or additional trials.

Even after a product is
on the market, safety concerns may require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of a pharmacovigilance program of our product or for approval of a new indication. For example, we are moving forward with Study 782 as part of our
Aranesp®pharmacovigilance program. (See “—Our ESA products continue to be under review and
receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.”) Additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required by the FDA, could result in substantial additional expense and the outcomes could result in additional label restrictions or the
loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, any negative results from such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals,
the use, reimbursement and sales of our products.

Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.

Sales of all of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from
third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. We rely in large part on the reimbursement of our principal products through government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States and similar
programs in foreign countries. (See“Item 1. Business — Reimbursement”) The government-sponsored healthcare systems in Europe and other foreign countries are the primary payers of healthcare costs in those regions.
Governments and private payers may regulate prices, reimbursement levels and/or access to our products to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products. We cannot predict the availability or level of coverage and reimbursement for our
approved products or product candidates and a reduction in coverage and/or reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations.

Healthcare reform, focused on expanding healthcare coverage to millions of uninsured Americans and reducing the rate of increase in the cost
of healthcare, remains a priority for President Obama, U.S. Congress and a number of states. Developments in this area have been highly dynamic and difficult to predict. As recently as February 23, 2010, President Obama released a new proposal for
healthcare reform which includes a combination of provisions from both the Senate and House of Representatives bills passed in late 2009. Certain healthcare reform proposals being considered, which may or may not be adopted into law, could:



•restrict the coverage and reimbursement of our products by Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs



•reduce the number of years of data exclusivity for innovative biological products potentially leading to earlier biosimilar competition and/or







•require additional healthcare reform costs to be borne by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.

We cannot predict whether these or any future proposed reform measures will be adopted into law. Healthcare cost-containment measures or
other healthcare system reforms that are adopted could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and any changes to the current U.S. healthcare system that reduce the coverage and reimbursement of our products, or restrict the way our
products are used or prescribed, could have a material adverse impact on our business. (See “—Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval.”)

Other initiatives reviewing the coverage or reimbursement of our products could result in less extensive coverage or lower reimbursement rates. For example, in March 2007, CMS announced a review of
all Medicare coverage policies related to the administration of ESAs in non-renal disease applications which is a precursor to a NCD. In July 2007, CMS issued a NCD where it determined that ESA treatment was not reasonable and necessary for
certain clinical conditions and established Medicare coverage parameters for FDA-approved ESA use in oncology. We believe the restrictions in the NCD on the coverage and reimbursement of ESAs has had a material adverse effect on the use,
reimbursement and sales of Aranesp®, which has had a significant impact to our business. We believe that the NCD
may continue to impact us in the future.

In the dialysis setting, the reimbursement rates for our products
may also be subject to downward pressure. In the United States, dialysis providers are primarily reimbursed for EPOGEN®by the federal government through the ESRD Program of Medicare. The ESRD Program reimburses approved dialysis providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs while the remainder is paid by other sources, including patients, state Medicaid
programs, private insurance, and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. The ESRD Program reimbursement methodology is established by federal law and is monitored and implemented by CMS. Since April 2006, the Medicare reimbursement for
ESAs administered to dialysis patients has been subject to an EMP, the Medicare payment review mechanism used by CMS to monitor EPOGEN®and Aranesp®utilization and
hematocrit outcomes of dialysis patients. CMS revised the EMP, effective January 2008, further limiting reimbursement for EPOGEN®and Aranesp®in certain
cases. Further reduction in reimbursement in the dialysis setting could have a material adverse effect on sales of EPOGEN®and Aranesp®, and our
business.

In addition, on July 30, 2008, CMS issued a listing of potential topics for future NCDs as a step to increase
transparency in the NCD process, which included as potential topics the use of ESAs in ESRD and CKD. Medicare currently does not have a NCD for the use of ESAs for anemia in patients who have CKD and CMS has not announced whether it will proceed
with a NCD for ESAs in ESRD or CKD. However, CMS announced it had scheduled a MEDCAC meeting for March 24, 2010 to review the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients who have CKD, which may consider the results of the TREAT study. In February 2010,
CMS released the voting questions the MEDCAC will address, including whether the available evidence in both CKD not on dialysis and







ESRD clearly (i) demonstrates the benefits and risks of ESA therapy, (ii) supports a baseline Hb range or (iii) justifies a dose response or maximum dose. CMS will decide whether more evidence is
needed to determine whether ESA treatment is reasonable and necessary to support continued Medicare coverage. CMS may consider initiating a NCA or a NCD following the MEDCAC and a NCD for ESAs in the renal setting, which may include non-coverage
and/or new dosing and treatment restrictions, could negatively affect use, reimbursement and coverage, and product sales of our ESA products. Also included in the initial potential future NCD topic list is the category of thrombopoiesis stimulating
agents (platelet growth factors), the category of drugs that includes Nplate®although CMS has not announced
whether it will proceed with a NCD related to thrombopoiesis stimulating agents.

Additional initiatives
addressing the coverage or reimbursement of our products could result in less extensive coverage or lower reimbursement, which could negatively affect sales of our products. For example, on September 15, 2009, CMS released its proposed rule to
implement a bundled prospective payment system for ESRD facilities as required by the MIPPA. Although we cannot predict what the final rule on the bundled payment system for ESRD facilities will include, implementation of the rule as proposed could
have a material adverse impact on the coverage and reimbursement, use and sales of EPOGEN®and Sensipar®. Healthcare providers may narrow the circumstances in which they prescribe or administer our products if
reimbursement rates are reduced or in anticipation of reimbursement being reduced, which could reduce the use and/or price of our products. A reduction in the use or price of our products could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of
operations.

If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if we fail to
prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected.

In recent years,
policymakers have proposed reforming U.S. patent laws and regulations. For example, patent reform legislation was introduced in both houses of the U.S. Congress in 2009, and the Senate Judiciary Committee approved a patent reform bill on
April 2, 2009. In general, the proposed legislation attempts to address issues surrounding the increase in patent litigation by, among other things, establishing new procedures for challenging patents. While we cannot predict what form any new
patent reform laws or regulations ultimately may take, final legislation could introduce new substantive rules and procedures for challenging patents, and certain reforms that make it easier for competitors to challenge our patents could have a
material adverse effect on our business.







We may not be able to develop commercial products.

Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few R&D projects produce a commercial product.
We intend to continue to make significant R&D investments. Product candidates or new indications for existing products (collectively, “product candidates”) that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the
market for a number of reasons, such as:



•the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results



•the product candidate was not effective or more effective than currently available therapies in treating a specified condition or illness



•the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics



•the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals



•the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use



•the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize



•other parties have or may have proprietary rights relating to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable
terms, or at all



•we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent investigators may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing
activities



•the regulatory pathway to approval for product candidates is uncertain or not well-defined

For example, after discussions with the FDA we have decided not to file for approval of motesanib in refractory thyroid cancer until there is
more clarity on what would constitute an appropriate regulatory filing package for that indication. Further, several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process. For example, in
June 2004, we announced that the phase 2 study of Glial Cell Lined-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (“GDNF”) for the treatment of advanced Parkinson’s disease did not meet the primary study endpoint upon completion of nine months of the
double-blind treatment phase of the study. The conclusion was reached even though a small phase 1 pilot investigator-initiated open-label study over a three-year period appeared to result in improvements for advanced Parkinson’s disease
patients. Subsequently, we discontinued clinical development of GDNF in patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease.

Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations.

We and certain of our subsidiaries
are involved in legal proceedings. Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts, fines, penalties and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Defense of litigation
claims can be expensive, time-consuming and distracting and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical
trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Amgen
and Immunex have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products.

We are also
involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We have received subpoenas from a number of government entities, including the U.S. Attorney’s Offices for the Eastern District of New York and the Western
District of Washington, as well as the Attorneys General of New







Although we cannot predict whether additional proceedings may be
initiated against us, or predict when these matters may be resolved, it is not unusual for investigations such as these to continue for a considerable period of time and to require management’s attention and significant legal expense. A
determination that we are in violation of the various federal and state laws that govern the sales and marketing of our products could result in federal criminal liability and/or federal or state civil or administrative liability, and thus could
result in substantial financial damages or criminal penalties and possible exclusion from future participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we may see new governmental investigations of or actions against us citing novel
theories of recovery. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the period in which such liabilities are incurred.

Our stock price is volatile.

Our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology industry, is volatile. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. Events such as a delay
in product development or even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, our revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may be subject to
significant fluctuations.

The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption which has led to
uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. Historically, we have occasionally and opportunistically accessed the capital markets to support certain business activities including acquisitions, in-licensing activities, share
repurchases and to refinance existing debt. In the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business and results of operations. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.

Current economic conditions may magnify certain risks that affect our business.

Our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by economic conditions. Sales of our principal products are
dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and private payer healthcare and insurance programs. (See “—Our sales depend on
coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.”) As a result of the current global economic downturn, our third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. A reduction in the availability or extent
of reimbursement from government and/or private payer healthcare programs could have a material adverse affect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations.







Additionally, we rely upon third-parties for
certain parts of our business, including licensees and partners, wholesale distributors of our products, contract clinical trial providers, contract manufacturers and single third-party suppliers. Because of the recent volatility in the financial
markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third-parties which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Current economic conditions may
adversely affect the ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations. Further, economic
conditions appear to have affected, and may continue to affect, the business practices of our wholesale distributors in a manner that has and may continue to contribute to lower sales of our products. For example, in the first quarter of 2009,
certain of our wholesale distributors lowered their levels of inventory on hand, which we believe was done to reduce their carrying costs and improve their results of operations Although we monitor our distributors’, customers’ and
suppliers’ financial condition and their liquidity, in order to mitigate our business risks, some of our distributors, customers and suppliers may become insolvent, which could negatively impact our business and results of
operations.

We maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as cash equivalents and marketable securities on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet. The value of our investments may be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations, downgrades in credit ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors which may result in other than temporary declines in
the value of our investments. Any of these events could cause us to record impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or to realize losses on the sale of investments.

We rely on single-source third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.

We rely on single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the
formulation, fill and finish of our products. Certain of these raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug application with regulatory
agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier.

Among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices and components include:



•regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others



•adverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting the supplier







•unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components



•labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak or otherwise



•failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality and product failures, product contamination and/or recall

These events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could adversely
affect our product sales and operating results materially. For example, we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Puerto Rico facility without impact on our
ability to supply these products. However, we may experience these or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products. Also, certain of the raw materials required
in the commercial and clinical manufacturing and the formulation of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In addition, one of our marketed products also includes bovine
serum and HSA. Some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. We continue to investigate alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative
manufacturing processes that do not require the use of certain biologically derived substances as such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall.

A material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from other countries, used in the
manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt our commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. This could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our
products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. Further, any disruptions or delays by us or by third-party suppliers or partners in converting to alternatives to certain biologically derived substances and
alternative manufacturing processes or our ability to gain regulatory approval for the alternative materials and manufacturing processes could increase our associated costs or result in the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value of
certain related assets, which could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations.

Manufacturing
difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.

Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. We currently manufacture all of our principal products and plan to manufacture many of our product candidates. In addition, we currently use
third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of ENBREL, Sensipar®/Mimpara®and Nplate®as well as our late-stage product candidate denosumab and plan to use contract manufacturers to produce a number of our other late-stage product candidates. Our
ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by:



•availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source
or supplier



•capacity of our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers



•facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses



•labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak



•compliance with regulatory requirements



•changes in forecasts of future demand



•timing and actual number of production runs



•updating of manufacturing specifications







•production success rates and bulk drug yields



•timing and outcome of product quality testing

If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. If we are at any time unable to
provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of
operations.

Our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy
FDA or other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take longer than five years to build and license a new manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to
qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. In order to maintain supply, mitigate risks associated with the majority of our formulation, fill and finish operations being performed in a single facility and to satisfy anticipated demand for our
late-stage product candidates, in particular denosumab, we must successfully implement certain manufacturing projects on schedule.

We manufacture and formulate, fill and finish substantially all our products at our
Puerto Rico manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at this facility, we may not be able to supply these products.

We currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for EPOGEN®, Aranesp®,
Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®, and substantially all of the formulation, fill and finish operations for ENBREL, and all of the bulk manufacturing for Aranesp®, Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®at our
manufacturing facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico. In addition if denosumab is approved by the FDA, it will be primarily produced at the Puerto Rico facility. Our global supply of these products is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and
efficient operation of this facility. A number of factors could adversely affect our operations, including:



•power failures and/or other utility failures



•breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment



•improper installation or operation of equipment



•labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak



•inability or unwillingness of third-party suppliers to provide raw materials and components



•natural or other disasters, including hurricanes



•failures to comply with regulatory requirements, including those of the FDA







In the past, the Puerto Rico facility has experienced manufacturing component shortages and
there was evidence of adverse trends in the microbial bioburden of the production environment that reduced the production output. The same or other problems may result in our being unable to supply these products, which could adversely affect our
product sales and operating results materially. Although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to
remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. The extent of the coverage of our insurance could limit our ability to mitigate for lost sales and such losses could materially adversely affect our product sales and operating results. Our Puerto
Rico facility is also subject to the same difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing experienced in our other manufacturing facilities. For example, the limited number of lots of ENBREL voluntarily recalled in September 2009 were
manufactured at our Puerto Rico facility and we have made commitments to the FDA to address the causes behind the recall. In future inspections, our failure to adequately address the FDA’s expectations could lead to further inspections of the
facility or regulatory actions. (See “—Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.”)

Our marketed products face substantial competition.

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. Our competitors market products or are actively
engaged in R&D in areas where we have products, where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. In the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs currently
approved for other indications that may later be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. Large pharmaceutical companies and generic manufacturers of pharmaceutical
products are expanding into the biotechnology field with increasing frequency. These companies may have greater resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of
technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these
competitors may bring to market. As a result, our products may compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or superior performance, are easier to administer or that are otherwise competitive with our products.

We expect to face increasing competition from biosimilar products which could impact our profitability.

We currently face competition in Europe from biosimilar products, and we expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars in the
future. Lawmakers in the United States have proposed bills to create a regulatory pathway for the abbreviated approval of biosimilars, and the EU has already created such a regulatory pathway. To the extent that governments adopt more permissive
approval frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader marketing approval for biosimilars, our products will become subject to increased competition. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger such
competition, and we could face more litigation regarding the validity and/or scope of our patents.

In the EU, the European
Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. In 2006, the EMA developed and issued final
regulatory guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilar products. The final guidelines included clinical trial guidance for certain biosimilar products, including erythropoietins and G-CSFs, recommending that applicants seeking
approval of such biosimilar products conduct pharmacodynamic, toxicological and clinical safety studies as well as a pharmacovigilance program. Some companies have received and other companies are seeking approval to market erythropoietin and G-CSF
biosimilars in the EU, presenting additional competition for our products. (See“— Our marketed products facesubstantial competition.”) For example, following the expiration of the principal European
patent relating to recombinant G-CSF in August 2006, the European Commission issued marketing authorizations for the first G-CSF biosimilar products and the product was launched in certain EU countries in 2008 and 2009. There are several G-CSF
biosimilars available in the EU marketed by different companies and these G-CSF biosimilar







products compete with NEUPOGEN®and Neulasta®. We cannot predict to what extent the entry of biosimilar products or other competing products will impact future
NEUPOGEN®or Neulasta®sales in the EU. Our inability to compete effectively could reduce sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may
negatively impact our bargaining power and profit margins.

®

®

Our marketing of ENBREL is dependent in part upon Pfizer (formerly Wyeth).

On October 15, 2009, Pfizer and Wyeth completed their merger and our relationship with Pfizer may be different than our prior
relationship with Wyeth. Under a co-promotion agreement, we and Pfizer market and sell ENBREL in the United States and Canada. A management committee comprised of an equal number of representatives from us and Pfizer is responsible for overseeing
the marketing and sales of ENBREL including strategic planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan and the establishment of a brand team. The brand







team, with equal representation from us and Pfizer, prepares and implements the annual marketing plan, which includes a minimum level of financial and sales personnel commitment from each party,
and is responsible for all sales activities. If Pfizer fails to effectively deliver on its marketing commitments to us or if we and Pfizer fail to coordinate our efforts effectively, our sales of ENBREL may be materially adversely affected.

We may be forced to undertake cost savings and/or restructuring initiatives in the future.

As a result of various regulatory and reimbursement developments that began in 2007, we completed a restructuring of our worldwide operations
in order to improve our cost structure while continuing to make significant R&D investments and build the framework for our future growth. As part of these actions, we reduced staff, made changes to certain capital projects, closed certain
production operations and abandoned leases primarily for certain R&D facilities that will not be used in our operations. Our business continues to face a variety of challenges. As a result, we may be forced to undertake further cost saving
and/or restructuring initiatives in the future. The current economic climate has forced many U.S. companies to cut costs in order to maintain their competitive standing, including through restructurings and reorganizations. We have worked, and we
continue to work, to increase cost efficiencies and to reduce discretionary expenditures. The anticipated benefits of our cost reduction initiatives are based on forecasts which could vary substantially from actual results, and we cannot provide
assurance that any such cost saving initiatives will not have a material adverse effect on our business.

Guidelines and
recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.

Government agencies promulgate
regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. However, professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases
from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as
usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies and reimbursement of our products by government and private payers. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased
use and/or dosage of our products. Some examples of agency and organizational guidelines include:



•On July 31, 2009, the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes group (“KDIGO”) released its Clinical Practice Guideline for the
Diagnosis, Evaluation, Prevention, and Treatment of Chronic Kidney Disease-Mineral and Bone Disorder (“CKD-MBD”). The guideline includes detailed recommendations for the diagnosis and evaluation of the three components of CKD-MBD followed
by recommendations for treatment. These recommendations could affect how healthcare providers prescribe Sensipar®for ESRD patients. The impact of the KDIGO is guidelines on clinical practice or the use of Sensipar®is not yet known.



•In August 2007, the National Kidney Foundation (“NKF”) distributed to the nephrology community final updated Kidney Disease Outcomes
Quality Initiative (“KDOQI”) clinical practice guidelines and clinical practice recommendations for anemia in CKD. The NKF-KDOQI™Anemia Work Group recommended in their 2007 Update to the NKF-KDOQI™Anemia Management Guidelines that physicians target Hb in the range of 11 g/dL to 12 g/dL, and also stipulated that the target not be above 13 g/dL.



•In February 2007, following the reported results from our Anemia of Cancer (“AoC”) 103 Study, the United States Pharmacopoeia Dispensing
Information Drug Reference Guides removed Aranesp®in the treatment of AoC.

Any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our product
sales and operating results materially. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price
for our common stock.







Our corporate compliance and risk mitigation programs cannot guarantee that we are in
compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or that we effectively manage all operational risks.

Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or
maintain regulatory approval.

Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.

Continual process improvement efforts may result
in the carrying value of certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets becoming impaired or other related charges being incurred.

In connection with our continuous process improvement activities, we evaluate our processes and procedures in order to identify opportunities to achieve greater efficiencies in how we conduct our business
in order to reduce costs. In particular, we evaluate our manufacturing practices and related processes to increase production yields and/or success rates as well as capacity utilization to gain increased cost efficiencies. Depending on the timing
and outcomes of these process improvement initiatives, the carrying value of certain manufacturing or other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of impairment charges and/or the recognition of other related
charges. The recognition of such charges, if any, could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations.



