Item 1A.RISK
    FACTORS



This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain
    forward looking statements that are based on current
    expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our
    future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our
    beliefs and our management’s assumptions. These statements
    are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain
    risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
    predict. You should carefully consider the risks and
    uncertainties facing our business. The risks described below are
    not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the
    risks that affect many other companies, such as employment
    relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and
    international operations. Further, additional risks not
    currently known to us or that we currently believe are
    immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity
    and stock price materially and adversely.



Our sales
    depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party
    payers.



Sales of all of our principal products are dependent on the
    availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from
    third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and
    private insurance plans. Governments and private payers may
    regulate prices, reimbursement levelsand/oraccess to our products to control costs or to affect levels of
    use of our products. We rely in large part on the reimbursement
    of our principal products through government programs such as
    Medicare and Medicaid in the United States and similar programs
    in foreign countries and a reduction in the coverageand/orreimbursement for our products could have a material adverse
    effect on our product sales and results of operations.



The government-sponsored healthcare systems in Europe and many
    other foreign countries are the primary payers for healthcare
    expenditures, including payment for drugs and biologics, in
    those regions. While mandatory price reductions have been a
    recurring aspect of business for the pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology industries in Europe, given the current worldwide
    economic conditions, certain European country governments have
    increased the frequency and size of such mandatory price
    reductions to extract further cost savings. For example, in 2010
    countries such as Greece announced price reductionsand/ormandated rebates for certain pharmaceutical and biological
    products that substantially exceeded prior levels. We expect
    that other countries may followand/ortake
    similar or more extensive actions to reduce expenditure on drugs
    and biologics, including mandatory price reductions, preference
    for biosimilar products or reduction in the amount of
    reimbursement. While we cannot fully predict the extent of
    further price reductions by countries in Europe or the impact
    such price reductions will have on our business, such reductions
    in priceand/orthe
    coverage and reimbursement for our products in European
    countries could have a material adverse effect on our product
    sales and results of operations.



In March 2010 the United States adopted significant healthcare
    reform through the enactment of the PPACA and the Heathcare and
    Education Reconciliation Act. (See Reimbursement —
    U.S. Healthcare Reform.) A major goal of the new healthcare
    reform law is to provide greater access to healthcare coverage
    for more Americans. Accordingly, the new healthcare reform law
    requires individual U.S. citizens and legal residents to
    maintain qualifying health coverage, imposes certain
    requirements on employers with respect to offering health
    coverage to employees, amends insurance regulations regarding
    when coverage can be provided and denied to individuals, and
    expands existing government healthcare coverage programs to more
    individuals in more situations, with most of these changes going
    into effect in January 2014. We do not expect a significant
    increase in sales of our products as a result of the 2014
    expansions in healthcare coverage. The new healthcare reform law
    does have several components, with varied implementation dates
    that began in 2010, that have and are expected to continue to
    adversely impact our business. While we cannot fully predict the
    ultimate impact the new healthcare reform law will have on us,
    we expect that the new law will continue to have a material
    adverse effect on our business and results of operations.



Public and private insurers have pursued, and continue to
    pursue, aggressive cost containment initiatives, including
    increased focus on comparing the effectiveness, benefits and
    costs of similar treatments, which could result in lower
    reimbursement rates for our products. A substantial portion of
    our U.S. business relies on reimbursement under Medicare
    Part B coverage. Any deterioration in the timeliness or
    certainty of payment from CMS to physicians, including as a
    result of changes in policy or regulations, or as a result of
    operational difficulties, could negatively impact the
    willingness of physicians to prescribe our products for patients
    relying on







Other initiatives reviewing the coverage or reimbursement of our
    products could result in less extensive coverage or lower
    reimbursement rates. For example, in July 2007, CMS issued an
    NCD where it determined that ESA treatment was not reasonable
    and necessary for certain clinical conditions and established
    Medicare coverage parameters for FDA-approved ESA use in
    oncology. Generally, an NCD is a national policy statement
    granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage or
    reimbursement for a specific medical item or service. We believe
    the restrictions in the 2007 NCD changed the way ESAs are used
    in clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of
    treated patients, the average ESA dose and the duration of ESA
    therapy in the oncology setting. As a result, we believe these
    restrictions have had a material adverse effect on the use,
    reimbursement and sales of
    Aranesp®,

    which has had a significant impact to our business.



30-day

and/or

and/or



Further, the list of potential future NCDs issued by CMS in late
    2008 included the category of thrombopoiesis stimulating agents
    (platelet growth factors), the category of drugs that includes
    Nplate®,

    and a discussion on bisphosphonates used to treat osteoporosis.
    CMS has not announced whether it will proceed with an NCA
    related to





thrombopoiesis stimulating agents and, while
    Prolia®is not a bisphosphonate, there is the possibility that CMS might
    evaluate other agents, including RANK Ligand inhibitors such as
    Prolia®and
    XGEVAtm.



®

®

®

®

®



Additional initiatives addressing the coverage or reimbursement
    of our products could result in less extensive coverage or lower
    reimbursement, which could negatively affect sales of our
    products. For example, since April 2006, the Medicare
    reimbursement for ESAs administered to dialysis patients has
    also been subject to an EMP, the Medicare payment review
    mechanism used by CMS to monitor
    EPOGEN®and
    Aranesp®utilization and hematocrit outcomes of dialysis patients. CMS
    revised the EMP, effective January 2008, further limiting
    reimbursement for
    EPOGEN®and
    Aranesp®in certain cases. Further reduction in reimbursement in the
    dialysis setting could have a material adverse effect on sales
    of
    EPOGEN®and
    Aranesp®,

    and our business.



If, for any of these or other reasons, reimbursement rates are
    reduced, or if healthcare providers anticipate reimbursement
    being reduced, providers may narrow the circumstances in which
    they prescribe or administer our products, which could reduce
    the useand/orsales
    of our products. A reduction in the use and sales of our
    products could have a material adverse effect on our business
    and our results of operations.



Our
    current products and products in development cannot be sold if
    we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.







Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval has been and will
    continue to be increasingly difficult, time-consuming and
    costly. For example, in October 2009 we received Complete
    Response Letters from the FDA for the BLA for
    Prolia®in the treatment and prevention of PMO and in the treatment and
    prevention of bone loss due to hormone ablation therapy
    (“HALT”) in breast and prostate cancer patients. The
    Complete Response Letter related to the PMO indication requested
    several items, including further information on the design and
    background adverse event rates to inform the methodology of our
    previously submitted post-marketing surveillance program. The
    FDA also requested a new clinical program to support the
    approval of
    Prolia®for the prevention of PMO, updated safety data and stated that a
    REMS is necessary for
    Prolia®.

    The Complete Response Letter related to the HALT indication
    requested additional information regarding the safety of
    Prolia®in patients with breast cancer receiving aromatase inhibitor
    therapy and patients with prostate cancer receiving Androgen
    Deprivation Therapy. The FDA specifically requested results from
    additional adequate and well-controlled clinical trials
    demonstrating that
    Prolia®has no detrimental effects on either time to disease progression
    or overall survival.



®

®

®

and/or



The occurrence of a number of high profile safety events has
    caused an increased public and governmental concern about
    potential safety issues relating to pharmaceutical and
    biological products and certain of our products and product
    candidates. (See Our ESA products continue to be under review
    and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.) As a result of
    this increased concern in recent years, the U.S. regulatory
    environment has evolved and safety signals and safety concerns
    resulting from clinical trials (includingsub-analysesand meta-analyses), market use or other sources are receiving
    greater scrutiny. Actual or perceived safety problems could lead
    to revised or restrictive labeling of our approved products or a
    class of products, potentially including limitations on the use
    of approved products in certain patients because of:



•the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy
    concerns with respect to any of our products by regulatory
    agencies•an increased rate or number of previously-identified
    safety-related events•the discovery of significant problems or safety signals or
    trends with a similar product that implicates an entire class of
    products







•subsequent concerns about the sufficiency of the data or studies
    underlying the label or changes to the underlying
    safety/efficacy analysis related to results from clinical
    trials, includingsub-analyses,or meta-analysis (a meta-analysis is the review of studies using
    various statistical methods to combine results from previous
    separate but related studies) of clinical trials or clinical
    data performed by us or others•new legislation or rules by regulatory agencies



For example, in December 2009, based on the TREAT results, we
    updated the boxed warning in the labeling information for ESAs,
    to reflect an increased risk of stroke when ESAs are
    administered to CRF patients to target Hb levels of 13 g/dL and
    above. In October 2010, we submitted additional proposed
    labeling changes regarding the use of ESAs in CRF patients not
    on dialysis that would limit treatment to patients who are most
    likely to benefit, specifically those with significant anemia
    (<10 g/dL), and who are at high risk for transfusion and
    for whom transfusion avoidance is considered clinically
    important, including those in whom it is important to preserve
    kidney transplant eligibility. We are working with the FDA to
    determine the appropriate use of ESAs in CKD patients and to
    determine any future ESA labeling changes required in connection
    with TREAT or the CRDAC meeting. (See Our ESA products continue
    to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory
    authorities.)



In addition to revised labeling for our products, discovery of
    new safety information or previously unknown safety concernsand/orsafety signals with our products or similar products could also
    lead to:



•requirement of risk management activities (including a REMS) or
    other FDA compliance actions related to the promotion and sale
    of our products•mandated PMCs or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved
    products•product recalls of our approved products•revocation of approval for our products from the market
    completely, or within particular therapeutic areas, and/or•increased timelines or delays in being approved by the FDA or
    other regulatory bodies•fewer treatments or product candidates being approved by
    regulatory bodies



Product safety concerns could cause regulatory agencies to
    impose risk management activities upon us (including a REMS),
    which may require substantial costs and resources to negotiate,
    develop, implement and administer. The results of these risk
    management activities could:



•impact the ability of healthcare providers to prescribe,
    dispense or use our products•limit patient access to our products•reduce patient willingness to use our products•place administrative burdens on healthcare providers in
    prescribing our products•affect our ability to compete against products that do not have
    a REMS or similar risk management activities



We currently have approved REMS for our ESAs, ENBREL,
    Prolia®and
    Nplate®,

    and we use third-party service providers to assist in the
    administration of our REMS that include elements to assure safe
    use. For example, our
    Nplate®and ESA REMS each require applicable healthcare providers and
    institutions to enroll in the program, receive education about
    the product and the REMS and document and report certain
    information to us over time. We are responsible for tracking and
    documenting certain elements of healthcare provider and
    institution compliance with the
    Nplate®and ESA REMS and providing the FDA with periodic assessment
    reports to demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met.
    If we or third-party service providers acting on our behalf fail
    to effectively implementand/oradminister the REMS for our products, we may be required to
    modify such REMS, and we may be subject to FDA enforcement
    actions or to civil penalties.



Further, if new medical data or product quality issues suggest
    an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified
    side-effects, we may withdraw some or all affected
    product — either voluntarily or by regulatory





®

®

®

and/or



If regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied
    with regulations in the R&D of a product candidate, a new
    indication for an existing product or information to support a
    current indication, they may not approve the product candidate
    or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication
    in its current form or at all, and we would not be able to
    market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our
    products or product candidates, our business and results of
    operations would be materially and adversely affected. Further,
    safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical
    trials or studies performed by us or by others (including our
    licensees or independent investigators) from the marketed use of
    our drugs or similar products that result in revised
    safety-related labeling or restrictions on the use of our
    approved products could negatively impact healthcare provider
    prescribing behavior, use and sales of our products, regulatory
    or private health organization medical guidelines and
    reimbursement for our products all of which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.



Our ESA
    products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by
    regulatory authorities.



®

(<10 g/dL),





and/or



®

®

®



Regulatory authorities outside the United States have also
    reviewed and scrutinized the use of our ESA products. In June
    2008, the EMA recommended updating the product information for
    ESAs with a new warning for their use in cancer patients, which
    was approved by the EC in October 2008. The product information
    for all ESAs was updated to advise that, in some clinical
    situations, blood transfusions should be the preferred treatment
    for the management of anemia in patients with cancer and that
    the decision to administer ESAs should be based on a
    benefit-risk assessment with the participation of the individual
    patient. Since the October 2008 revision, we have experienced a
    reduction of
    Aranesp®sales in the supportive cancer care setting in the EU and,
    although we cannot predict what further impact the revised EU
    ESA product information could have on our business, the
    coverage, reimbursement, use and sales of
    Aranesp®in Europe could further be materially adversely affected, which
    would have a material adverse effect on our business and results
    of operations.



Moreover, we continue to receive results from meta-analyses or
    previously initiated clinical trials using ESAs, including PMCs,
    and adverse results could negatively impact the use and sales of
    our ESAs. For example, in September 2008, we announced that we
    had received a summary of preliminary results from the Cochrane
    Collaboration’s independent meta-analysis of patient-level
    data from previously conducted, randomized, controlled, clinical
    studies evaluating ESAs in cancer patients which we submitted to
    the FDA and the EMA. This Cochrane meta-analysis of
    patient-level data from previous studies corroborates prior
    analyses indicating that the use of ESAs may increase the risk
    of death in cancer patients. The studies in the analysis all
    predate the current label, which advises using the least amount
    of ESA necessary to avoid transfusion but they do not exclude
    the potential for adverse outcomes when ESAs are prescribed
    according to the current label.





We must
    conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize
    and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for
    new indications.







Further, we rely on unaffiliated third-party vendors to perform
    certain aspects of our clinical trial operations. In the event
    that any of these vendors has unforeseen issues that negatively
    impact the quality of its work, our ability to evaluate clinical
    results may also be negatively impacted. As a result, this could
    adversely affect our ability to file for, gain or maintain
    regulatory approvals worldwide on a timely basis.



Patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects
    in the course of our, our licensees, partners or independent
    investigator’s clinical trials which could:



•delay the clinical trial program•require additional or longer trials to gain approval•prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or new
    indications for existing products•render the product candidate commercially unfeasible or limit
    our ability to market existing products completely or in certain
    therapeutic areas.



Clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard
    of medical care. However in certain diseases, such as cancer,
    the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In these diseases, the
    duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may
    result in the design of such clinical trials being based on an
    out of date standard of medical





care, limiting the utility and application of such trials. We
    may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be
    able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates,
    new indications for existing products or maintenance of our
    current labels on this basis. Further, clinical trials conducted
    by others, including our licensees, partners or independent
    investigators, may result in unfavorable clinical trials results
    that may call into question the safety of our products in
    off-label or on label uses that may result in label restrictionsand/oradditional trials.



Even after a product is on the market, safety concerns may
    require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of
    a pharmacovigilance program of our product or for approval of a
    new indication. For example, we have initiated Study’782 as
    part of our
    Aranesp®pharmacovigilance program. (See Our ESA products continue to be
    under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.)
    Additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required
    by the FDA, could result in substantial additional expense and
    the outcomes could result in additional label restrictions or
    the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each
    of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and
    results of operations. Additionally, any negative results from
    such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the
    use, reimbursement and sales of our products.



We expect
    to face increasing competition from biosimilar products which
    could impact our profitability.



We currently face competition in Europe from biosimilar
    products, and we expect to face increasing competition from
    biosimilars in the future. Lawmakers in the United States have
    recently enacted healthcare reform legislation which included an
    abbreviated regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars.
    The EU has already created such a regulatory pathway. To the
    extent that governments adopt more permissive approval
    frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader marketing
    approval for biosimilars, our products will become subject to
    increased competition. Expiration or successful challenge of
    applicable patent rights could trigger such competition, and we
    could face more litigation regarding the validityand/orscope
    of our patents.



class-specific

®

®



On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the
    PPACA which authorized the FDA to approve biosimilar products
    under a new abbreviated pathway. The new law established a
    period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference
    products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation
    and outlined statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar
    approval standards that take into account patient safety
    considerations. Under this framework, data exclusivity protects
    the data in the innovator’s regulatory application by
    prohibiting, for a period of 12 years, others from gaining
    FDA approval based in part on reliance or reference to the
    innovator’s data in their application to the FDA. The new
    law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic
    products. As part of the implementation process, the FDA
    published several questions in the Federal Register for public
    comment. The FDA held a public meeting in November 2010 to seek
    stakeholder input on the subject and accepted written comments
    through 2010. The agency has the authority to approve biosimilar
    products but has not announced whether it will first publish
    guidance or rules for biosimilar applicants before approving
    biosimilar products. With the likely introduction of biosimilars
    in the United States, we expect in the future to face greater
    competition from





biosimilar products and downward pressure on our product prices,
    sales and revenues, subject to our ability to enforce our
    patents. Further, biosimilar manufacturers with approved
    products in Europe may seek to quickly obtain U.S. approval
    now that the regulatory pathway for biosimilars has been
    enacted. In addition, critics of the 12-year exclusivity period
    in the biosimilar pathway law will likely seek to shorten the
    data exclusivity period. President Obama’s proposed 2012
    budget includes a proposal to lower the data exclusivity period
    to seven years, but this would require new legislation be passed
    by the Congress. Critics may also encourage the FDA to interpret
    narrowly the law’s provisions regarding which new products
    receive data exclusivity.



We may
    not be able to develop commercial products.



Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is
    highly uncertain, and very few R&D projects produce a
    commercial product. We intend to continue to make significant
    R&D investments. Product candidates or new indications for
    existing products (collectively, “product candidates”)
    that appear promising in the early phases of development may
    fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as:



•the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical
    trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical
    trial results, for reasons that could include changes in the
    standard of care of medicine•the product candidate was not effective or more effective than
    currently available therapies in treating a specified condition
    or illness•the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing
    therapeutics•the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or
    animals•the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA or EMA, did not
    approve our product candidate for an intended use•the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture
    and commercialize•other parties have or may have proprietary rights relating to
    our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let
    us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all•we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent
    investigators may fail to effectively conduct clinical
    development or clinical manufacturing activities•the regulatory pathway to approval for product candidates is
    uncertain or not well-defined



For example, after discussions with the FDA we have decided not
    to file for approval of motesanib in refractory thyroid cancer
    until there is more clarity on what would constitute an
    appropriate regulatory filing package for that indication.
    Further, several of our product candidates have failed or been
    discontinued at various stages in the product development
    process. For example, in June 2004, we announced that the phase
    2 study of Glial Cell Lined-Derived Neurotrophic Factor
    (“GDNF”) for the treatment of advanced
    Parkinson’s disease did not meet the primary study endpoint
    upon completion of nine months of the double-blind treatment
    phase of the study. The conclusion was reached even though a
    small phase 1 pilot investigator-initiated open-label study over
    a three-year period appeared to result in improvements for
    advanced Parkinson’s disease patients. Subsequently, we
    discontinued clinical development of GDNF in patients with
    advanced Parkinson’s disease.



Our
    marketed products face substantial competition.



We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products
    compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which
    our products may be indicated. Our competitors market products
    or are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have
    products, where we are developing product candidates or new
    indications for existing products. In the future, we expect that
    our products will compete with new drugs currently in
    development, drugs currently approved for other indications that
    may later be approved for the same indications as those of our
    products and drugs approved for other indications that are used
    off-label. Large pharmaceutical companies and generic
    manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are expanding into the
    biotechnology field with increasing frequency. These companies
    may have greater resources than we do. In addition, some of our
    competitors may have technical





or competitive advantages over us for the development of
    technologies and processes. These resources may make it
    difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover,
    develop and market new products and for our current products to
    compete with new products or new product indications that these
    competitors may bring to market. As a result, our products may
    compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or
    superior performance, better safety profile, are easier to
    administer or that are otherwise competitive with our products.



Concentration
    of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and
    consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may
    negatively impact our bargaining power and profit
    margins.



®

®



We rely
    on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials,
    medical devices and components.



We rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw
    materials, medical devices and components necessary for the
    manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. Certain
    of those raw materials, medical devices and components are the
    proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers
    and are specifically cited in our drug application with
    regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that
    specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from
    another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved
    such supplier.



Among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw
    materials, medical devices and components include:



•regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or
    others•adverse financial or other strategic developments at or
    affecting the supplier•unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical
    devices or components•labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic
    flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise•failure to comply with our quality standards which results in
    quality and product failures, product contaminationand/orrecall•discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in
    raw materials, medical devices or components



These events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy
    demand for our products, which could adversely affect our
    product use, sales and operating results materially. For
    example, we have experienced shortages in certain components
    necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our
    products in our Puerto Rico facility without impact on our
    ability to supply these products. Further, quality issues which
    result in unexpected additional demand for certain components
    may lead to shortages of required raw materials or components
    (such as we have experienced with
    EPOGEN®glass vials). We may experience or continue to experience these
    or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments,
    supply constraints, contract disputesand/orstock-outs of our products.





Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial
    and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from
    other countriesand/orderived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In
    addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum
    and human serum albumin. Some countries in which we market our
    products may restrict the use of certain biologically derived
    substances in the manufacture of drugs. We continue to
    investigate alternatives to certain biological sources and
    alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use
    of certain biologically derived substances because such raw
    materials may be subject to contaminationand/orrecall.



A material shortage, contamination, recalland/orrestriction of the use of certain biologically derived
    substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from
    other countries and that are used in the manufacture of our
    products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial
    manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated
    withdrawal of our products from the market. This could adversely
    affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which
    could adversely affect our product sales and operating results
    materially. Further, any disruptions or delays by us or by
    third-party suppliers or partners in converting to alternatives
    to certain biologically derived substances and alternative
    manufacturing processes or our ability to gain regulatory
    approval for the alternative materials and manufacturing
    processes could increase our associated costs or result in the
    recognition of an impairment in the carrying value of certain
    related assets, which could have a material and adverse affect
    on our results of operations.



Manufacturing
    difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our
    products and limit our product sales.



Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult,
    complex and highly regulated. We currently manufacture all of
    our principal products and plan to manufacture many of our
    product candidates. In addition, we currently use third-party
    contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of
    ENBREL,
    Prolia®,

    Sensipar®/Mimpara®,

    Nplate®and
    XGEVAtmand plan to use contract manufacturers to produce or assist in
    the production of a number of our late-stage product candidates.
    Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our
    products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient
    operation of our facilities and those of our third-party
    contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by:



•availability or contamination of raw materials, components and
    equipment used in the manufacturing process, particularly those
    for which we have no other source or supplier•capacity of our facilities and those of our contract
    manufacturers•contamination by microorganisms or viruses•natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or
    fires•labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic
    flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise•degree of compliance with regulatory requirements•changes in forecasts of future demand•timing and actual number of production runs•updating of manufacturing specifications•production success rates and yields•timing and outcome of product quality testing



If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products is
    interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, supply
    constraints, stock-outsand/orrecalls of our products. For example, over the past several
    years we have initiated a number of voluntary recalls of certain
    lots of our products. (See Our current products and products in
    development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain
    regulatory approval.) If we are at any time unable to provide an
    uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose
    patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing
    therapeutics instead of our products, which could materially and
    adversely affect our product sales and results of operations.





Our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party
    contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy FDA or
    other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued
    review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take
    longer than five years to build, validate and license a new
    manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to
    qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. For example, in
    order to maintain supply and to satisfy anticipated future
    demand for denosumab, we are qualifying the expansion of our
    existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto Rico site. In
    addition, we are completing the construction and qualification
    of a new formulation and filling facility at our Puerto Rico
    site in order mitigate the risk associated with the majority of
    our formulation and fill operations being performed in a single
    facility. Upon completion, these facilities will require
    licensure by the various regulatory authorities.



and/or



We
    perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing
    activities at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility and a
    substantial amount of our clinical manufacturing activities at
    our Thousand Oaks, California manufacturing facility; if
    significant natural disasters or production failures occur at
    the Puerto Rico facility, we may not be able to supply these
    products or, at the Thousand Oaks facility, we may not be able
    to continue our clinical trials.



We currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for
    EPOGEN®,

    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®,

    NEUPOGEN®,

    Prolia®and
    XGEVAtmand substantially all of the formulation, fill and finish
    operations for ENBREL, and all of the bulk manufacturing for
    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®,

    and
    NEUPOGEN®at our manufacturing facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico. In
    addition, we expect/plan to perform substantially all of the
    bulk manufacturing for
    Prolia®and
    XGEVAtmat the Puerto Rico facility once the facility has been approved
    by the FDA for that purpose. We also perform substantially all
    of the bulk manufacturing and formulation, fill and finish, and
    packaging for product candidates to be used in clinical trials
    at our manufacturing facility in Thousand Oaks, California. The
    global supply of our products and product candidates is
    significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient
    operation of these facilities. A number of factors could
    adversely affect our operations, including:



•power failuresand/orother
    utility failures•breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment•improper installation or operation of equipment•labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic
    flu outbreak•inability or unwillingness of third-party suppliers to provide
    raw materials and components•natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or
    fires







•failures to comply with regulatory requirements, including those
    of the FDA



In the past, the Puerto Rico facility has experienced
    manufacturing component shortages and there was evidence of
    adverse trends in the microbial bioburden of the production
    environment that reduced the production output. The same or
    other problems may result in our being unable to supply these
    products, which could adversely affect our product sales and
    operating results materially. Although we have obtained limited
    insurance to protect against certain business interruption
    losses, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be
    adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available
    on acceptable terms, if at all. The extent of the coverage of
    our insurance could limit our ability to mitigate for lost sales
    and such losses could materially adversely affect our product
    sales and operating results. Our Puerto Rico facility is also
    subject to the same difficulties, disruptions or delays in
    manufacturing experienced in our other manufacturing facilities.
    For example, the limited number of lots of ENBREL and
    EPOGEN®voluntarily recalled in 2009 and 2010 were manufactured at our
    Puerto Rico facility. In future inspections, our failure to
    adequately address the FDA’s expectations could lead to
    further inspections of the facility or regulatory actions. (See
    Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit
    supply of our products and limit our product sales.)



If our
    intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated,
    circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and
    future intellectual property litigation, our business could be
    adversely affected.



,

and/or



Further, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, products approved by the
    FDA under a NDA may be the subject of patent litigation with
    generic competitors before the five year period of data
    exclusivity provided for under the Hatch-Waxman Act has expired
    and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the
    product.



Over the next several years, the existing patents on our
    principal products will begin to expire. (See Item 1.
    Business — Marketed Products.) As our patents expire,
    competitors may be able to legally produce and market similar
    products or technologies, including biosimilars, which may
    result in a reduction in the use and sales of our products.
    While we have, and we continue to seek, additional patent
    protection on certain of our products, including for specific
    processes for making our products, formulations and particular
    uses of our products, competitors may be able to design around
    or otherwise circumvent any such additional patents and sell
    competing products. Although we continue to develop and obtain
    patent protection for new product candidates, we may not be able
    to replace the revenue lost upon the expiration of the patents
    on our current products.





In recent years, policymakers have proposed reforming
    U.S. patent laws and regulations. For example, patent
    reform legislation was introduced in both the House and the
    Senate during the 111th Congress in 2009 but was not
    adopted into law. Legislation was again introduced in the Senate
    and passed the Senate Judiciary Committee on February 3,
    2011. In general, the proposed legislation attempts to address
    issues surrounding the increase in patent litigation by, among
    other things, establishing new procedures for challenging
    patents. While we cannot predict what form any new patent reform
    laws or regulations may ultimately take, final legislation could
    introduce new substantive rules and procedures for challenging
    patents, and certain reforms that make it easier for competitors
    to challenge our patents could have a material adverse effect on
    our business.



Our
    business may be affected by litigation and government
    investigations.



We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal
    proceedings. (See Note 19, Contingencies and commitments in
    the notes to our consolidated financial statements in our annual
    report.) Civil and criminal litigation is inherently
    unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts,
    fines, penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programsand/orinjunctive relief that affect how we operate our business.
    Defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time-consuming
    and distracting and it is possible that we could incur judgments
    or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or
    change the way we operate our business, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    position or cash flows. In addition, product liability is a
    major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product
    liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products
    that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability
    claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert
    management’s attention, and adversely affect our reputation
    and the demand for our products. Amgen and Immunex have
    previously been named as defendants in product liability actions
    for certain of our products.





Throughout these investigations, and in litigation, the
    government entities are asserting that we violated various state
    and federal laws. These investigations are very burdensome,
    expensive and time-consuming for us to explain and defend to
    these entities. Although we cannot predict whether additional
    proceedings may be initiated against us, or predict when these
    matters may be resolved, it is not unusual for investigations
    such as these to continue for a considerable period of time and
    to require management’s attention and significant legal
    expense. A determination that we are in violation of the various
    federal and state laws that govern the sales and marketing of
    our products could result in federal criminal liabilityand/orfederal or state civil or administrative liability, and thus
    could result in substantial financial damages or criminal
    penalties and possible exclusion from future participation in
    the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we may see new
    governmental investigations of or actions against us citing
    novel theories of recovery. Any of these results could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    position or cash flows in the period in which such liabilities
    are incurred.





Our stock
    price is volatile.



Our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology
    industry, is volatile. Our revenues and operating results may
    fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. Events
    such as a delay in product development or even a relatively
    small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period
    to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, our
    revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may
    be subject to significant fluctuations.



The capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility
    and disruption which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity
    issues for both borrowers and investors. Historically, we have
    occasionally and opportunistically accessed the capital markets
    to support certain business activities including acquisitions,
    in-licensing activities, share repurchases and to refinance
    existing debt. In the event of adverse capital and credit market
    conditions, we may not be able to obtain capital market
    financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally
    recognized credit rating agencies could adversely affect our
    cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price
    of our securities.



Current
    economic conditions may magnify certain risks that affect our
    business.



and/or



We are exposed to sovereign risk in some European countries
    where we sell directly to public healthcare systems. Economic
    and fiscal conditions in these countries could affect the amount
    and timing of the collection of our receivables. For example,
    the government of Greece has issued one-, two- and three-year
    zero-coupon bonds to various pharmaceutical vendors in lieu of
    payment of past due receivables dating from 2007 to 2009.



and/or





for our products could also cause us to experience excess
    inventory write-offsand/orexcess capacity or impairment charges at certain of our
    manufacturing facilities.





We maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as
    cash equivalents and marketable securities on our Consolidated
    Balance Sheet. The value of our investments may be adversely
    affected by interest rate fluctuations, downgrades in credit
    ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors
    that may result in other than temporary declines in the value of
    our investments. Any of those events could cause us to record
    impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or
    to realize losses on the sale of investments.



Guidelines
    and recommendations published by various organizations can
    reduce the use of our products.



Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines
    directly applicable to us and to our products. However,
    professional societies, health technology assessment
    organizations, practice management groups, insurance carriers,
    physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations
    involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish
    guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers,
    administrators and payers, and patient communities.
    Recommendations by government agencies or those other
    groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage,
    dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies as
    well as reimbursement of our products by government and private
    payers. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by
    patients, healthcare providers and payers could result in
    decreased useand/ordosage of our products. Some examples of agency and
    organizational guidelines include:



•In August 2007, the National Kidney Foundation (“NKF”)
    distributed to the nephrology community final updated Kidney
    Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (“KDOQI”) clinical
    practice guidelines and clinical practice recommendations for
    anemia in CKD. The
    NKF-KDOQItmAnemia Work Group recommended in its 2007 Update to the
    NKF-KDOQItmAnemia Management Guidelines that physicians target Hb in the
    range of 11 g/dL to 12 g/dL, and also stipulated that the target
    not be above 13 g/dL.•In December 2008, the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes
    group (“KDIGO”), anot-for-profitfoundation managed by NKF, announced that it was developing a
    new global anemia guideline. The announcement stated that an
    updated anemia guideline is necessary in light of new study
    results, particularly the data from the TREAT trial, which had
    become available since the
    NKF-KDOQItm’s

    clinical practice guidelines and clinical practice
    recommendations for anemia in CKD were released. KDIGO has
    stated that its new guidelines are expected to be released for
    public review and comment in early to mid-2011 and that final
    guidelines could be available by early 2012.•In February 2007, following the reported results from our Anemia
    of Cancer 103 Study, the U.S. Pharmacopoeia Dispensing
    Information Drug Reference Guides removed
    Aranesp®in the treatment of anemia of cancer.







In addition, Health Technology Assessment organizations, such as
    NICE in the United Kingdom and the Canadian Agency for Drugs and
    Technologies in Health, make reimbursement recommendations to
    payers in their jurisdictions based on the clinical
    effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and service impact of new,
    emerging and existing medicines and treatments.



Any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use,
    dosage or reimbursement of our products could adversely affect
    our product sales and operating results materially. In addition,
    the perception by the investment community or stockholders that
    such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use
    and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market
    price for our common stock.



The
    commercialization of certain of our product candidates and the
    marketing of certain of our products is dependent in part on our
    partners.



We have entered into agreements with third parties to assist in
    the commercialization of certain of our product candidates and
    the marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic
    areas. (See Business Relationships.) Many of these agreements
    involve the sharing of certain decisions and a division of
    responsibilities, costs and benefits. If our partners fail to
    effectively deliver on their marketing and commercialization
    commitments to us or if we and our partners fail to coordinate
    our efforts effectively, sales of our products may be materially
    adversely affected.



Our corporate compliance and risk mitigation programs cannot
    guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially
    applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all
    potentially applicable foreign regulationsand/orthat
    we effectively manage all operational risks.



and/or

and/or

and/or



Continual
    process improvement efforts may result in the carrying value of
    certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets
    becoming impaired or other related charges being
    incurred



Our business continues to face many challenges. In response to
    these challenges, we have worked and continue to work to improve
    cost efficiencies and to reduce discretionary expenditures. As
    part of those efforts, we undertake continuous process
    improvement activities to evaluate our processes and procedures
    in order to identify opportunities for achieving greater
    efficiencies in how we conduct our business. In particular, we
    evaluate our manufacturing operations to identify opportunities
    to increase production yieldsand/orsuccess rates as well as capacity utilization. Depending on the
    timing and outcomes of these process improvement initiatives,
    the carrying value of certain manufacturing or other assets may
    not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of
    impairmentand/orother
    related charges. The recognition of such charges, if any, could
    have a material adverse affect on our results of operations.





The
    adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax
    liabilities could affect our profitability.We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States
    and other jurisdictions in which we do business. Our provision
    for income taxes and results of operations in the future could
    be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure,
    changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing
    statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax
    assets and liabilities, and changes in applicable tax laws. In
    addition, President Obama’s administration has announced
    proposals for U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could
    adversely affect our provision for income taxes. There are also
    other tax proposals that have been introduced, that are being
    considered, or that have been enacted by the U.S. Congress
    or the legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions that could
    materially adversely affect our provision for income taxes, tax
    liabilities or our results of operations. For example, the
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico recently enacted tax legislation
    effective on January 1, 2011 that, in certain
    circumstances, imposes a temporary excise tax for companies that
    purchase products from related Puerto Rico manufacturers.