ITEM 1. BUSINESS

1(a) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

(i) General. The Stanley Works (“Stanley” or the “Company”) was founded in 1843 by Frederick T.
Stanley and incorporated in 1852. Stanley is a diversified worldwide supplier of tools and
engineered solutions for professional, industrial and construction and do-it-yourself use, as well
as engineered security solutions for industrial and commercial applications. Stanley®is
a brand recognized around the world for quality and value.

Net sales from continuing operations have increased from $2.2 billion in 2002 to a record $4.4 billion in 2008, declining to $3.7 billion in
2009 associated with the economic recession. The increase reflects execution of the Company’s profitable growth and diversification strategy. The
growth in net sales from continuing operations predominantly relates to acquisitions, particularly
in the Industrial and Security segments. The Company sold the CST/berger business in 2008, and the
entry door and home décor businesses in 2004, along with several other small divestitures over the
past few years. Results have been recast for these discontinued operations. Refer to Note E,
Acquisitions, and Note T, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of acquisitions and divestitures over the past three years.
At January 2, 2010, Stanley employed approximately 16,700 people worldwide. The Company’s principal
executive office is located at 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053 and its telephone
number is (860) 225-5111.

On November 2, 2009, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with The Black &
Decker Corporation (“Black & Decker”), a global manufacturer and marketer of quality power tools
and accessories, hardware and home improvement products, and technology-based fastening systems.
Under the terms of the transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both
companies, Black & Decker shareholders will receive a fixed ratio of 1.275 shares of the Company’s
common stock for each share of Black & Decker common stock they own. Based on the $52.47 closing
price of the Company’s common stock on January 27, 2010, the consideration to be received by Black
& Decker shareholders represents $66.90 per Black & Decker share, or approximately $4.2 billion in
aggregate value. Upon closing, it is expected that the Company’s shareholders will own
approximately 50.5% of the equity of the combined company and Black & Decker shareholders will own
approximately 49.5%. While the U.S. anti-trust review is complete, the closing of the transaction
is subject to other customary closing conditions, including foreign regulatory approvals and the
approval of Stanley and Black & Decker shareholders who will vote on the merger proposal in special
meetings to be held on March 12, 2010. Closing of the transaction is expected to occur on March
12, 2010.

(ii) Restructuring Activities. Information regarding the Company’s restructuring activities is
incorporated herein by reference to the material captioned “Restructuring Activities” in Item 7 and
Note O, Restructuring and Asset Impairments, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
in Item 8.

1(b) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

Financial information regarding the Company’s business segments is incorporated herein by reference
to the material captioned “Business Segment Results” in Item 7 and Note P, Business Segments and
Geographic Areas, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

1(c) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

The Company’s operations are classified into three business segments: Security, Industrial, and
Construction & Do-It-Yourself. All segments have significant international operations in developed
countries, but do not have large investments that would be subject to expropriation risk in
developing countries. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the U.S. dollar
translation of international operations in each segment.

Security

The Security segment is a provider of access and security solutions primarily for retailers,
educational, financial and healthcare institutions, as well as commercial, governmental and
industrial customers. The Company provides an extensive suite of mechanical and electronic security
products and systems, and a variety of security services. These include security integration
systems, software, related installation, maintenance, monitoring services, automatic doors,
door closers, exit devices, healthcare storage and supply chain solutions, patient protection
products, hardware (includes hinges, gate hardware, cabinet pulls, hooks, braces and shelf
brackets) and locking mechanisms.
Security products are sold primarily on a direct sales basis and, in certain instances, through third party distributors.





Industrial

The Industrial segment manufactures and markets: professional and automotive mechanics tools and
storage systems; hydraulic tools and accessories; plumbing, heating and air conditioning tools;
assembly tools and systems; and specialty tools. These products are sold to industrial customers
and distributed primarily through third party distributors as well as through direct sales forces.

Professional and automotive mechanics tools and storage systems include wrenches, sockets,
electronic diagnostic tools, tool boxes and high-density industrial storage and retrieval systems.
Hydraulic tools and accessories include hand-held hydraulic tools and mounted hydraulic tools used
by scrap yards, contractors, utilities, railroads and public works as well as mounted demolition
hammers and compactors designed to work on skid steer loaders, mini-excavators, backhoes and large
excavators. Plumbing, heating and air conditioning tools include pipe wrenches, pliers, press
fitting tools, and tubing cutters. Assembly tools and systems include electric and pneumatic
assembly tools; these are high performance precision tools, controllers and systems for tightening
threaded fasteners used chiefly by vehicle manufacturers. Specialty tools are used for assembling,
repairing and testing electronic equipment.

Construction & Do-It-Yourself

The Construction & Do-It-Yourself (“CDIY”) segment manufactures and markets hand tools, consumer
mechanics tools, storage systems, and pneumatic tools and fasteners. These products are sold to
professional end users as well as consumers, and are distributed primarily through retailers and
distributors (including home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards).
Hand tools include measuring and leveling tools, planes, hammers, demolition tools, knives and
blades, screwdrivers, saws, chisels and consumer tackers. Consumer mechanics tools include wrenches
and sockets. Storage systems include plastic and metal tool boxes and storage units. Pneumatic
tools and fasteners include nail guns, staplers, nails and staples that are used for construction,
remodeling, furniture making, pallet manufacturing and other applications involving the attachment
of wooden materials.

Competition

The Company competes on the basis of its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, its
commitment to customer service, strong customer relationships, the breadth of its product lines and
its emphasis on product innovation.

The Company encounters active competition in all of its businesses from both larger and smaller
companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products
appropriate for the same uses. The Company has a large number of competitors; however, aside from a
small number of competitors in the consumer hand tool and consumer hardware businesses who produce
a range of products somewhat comparable to the Company’s, the majority of its competitors compete
only with respect to one or more individual products or product lines in that segment. Certain
large customers offer private label brands (“house brands”) that compete across a wider spectrum of
the Company’s CDIY segment product offerings. The Company is one of the largest manufacturers of
hand tools in the world. The Company is a significant manufacturer of pneumatic fastening tools and
related fasteners for the construction, furniture and pallet industries as well as a leading
manufacturer of hydraulic tools used for heavy construction, railroad, utilities and public works.
The Company also believes that it is among the largest direct providers of commercial access
security integration and alarm monitoring services in North America.

Customers

A substantial portion of the Company’s products are sold to home centers and mass merchants in the
U.S. and Europe. A consolidation of retailers both in North America and abroad has occurred over
time. While this consolidation and the domestic and international expansion of these large
retailers provide the Company with opportunities for growth, the increasing size and importance of
individual customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential sales volume loss. The loss of
certain of the larger home centers or mass merchants as customers could have a material adverse
effect on the Company until either such customers were replaced or the Company made the necessary
adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. Despite the trend toward customer
consolidation, the Company has been able to maintain a diversified customer base and has decreased
customer concentration risk over the past several years, as sales from continuing operations in
markets outside of the home center and mass merchant distribution channels have grown at a
greater rate through a combination of acquisitions and other efforts to broaden the customer base,
primarily in the Security and Industrial segments.
In this regard, sales to the Company’s largest customer as a percentage of total sales
have decreased from 22% in 2002 to less than 6% in 2009.





Within the Security segment, a large portion of sales are generated in the retail sector. The
Security segment also has significant sales to commercial, governmental and educational customers.

Raw Materials

The Company’s products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but
not limited to steel, aluminum, zinc, brass, copper and nickel, as well as resin. Additionally, the
Company uses other commodity based materials for components and packaging including, but not
limited to, plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. The raw materials required are procured
globally and available from multiple sources at competitive prices. The Company does not anticipate
difficulties in obtaining supplies for any raw materials or energy used in its production
processes.

Backlog

Due to short order cycles and rapid inventory turnover in most of the Company’s CDIY and Industrial
segment businesses, backlog is generally not considered a significant indicator of future
performance. At February 6, 2010, the Company had approximately $320 million in unfilled orders.
All of these orders are reasonably expected to be filled within the current fiscal year. As of
February 2, 2009, unfilled orders amounted to $348 million.

Patents and Trademarks

No business segment is dependent, to any significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or
concessions and the loss of these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not have a
material adverse effect on any of the business segments. The Company owns numerous patents, none of
which individually is material to the Company’s operations as a whole. These patents expire at
various times over the next 20 years. The Company holds licenses, franchises and concessions, none
of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the Company’s operations as a whole.
These licenses, franchises and concessions vary in duration, but generally run from one to
40 years.

The Company has numerous trademarks that are used in its businesses worldwide. The
STANLEY®and STANLEY in a Notched Rectangle®trademarks are material to all
three business segments. These well-known trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and
are among the world’s most trusted brand names. The Company’s tagline, “Make Something
Greattm” is the centerpiece of the brand strategy for all segments. The
BEST®, Blick®, HSM®, National®, Sargent &
Greenleaf®, S&G®Sonitrol®, Sonitrol Globe
Design®, GdPtm, and Xmark®trademarks are material to
the Security segment. The LaBounty®, MAC®, Mac Tools®,
Proto®, Vidmartm, Facom®, Virax®and
USAG®trademarks are material to the Industrial segment. In the CDIY segment, the
Bostitch®, Bailey®, Powerlock®, Tape Rule Case Design
(Powerlock), and FatMax®family of trademarks are material. The terms of these
trademarks vary, typically, from 10 to 20 years, with most trademarks being renewable indefinitely
for like terms.

Environmental Regulations

The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign
countries where it has operations. Future laws and regulations are expected to be increasingly
stringent and will likely increase the Company’s expenditures related to environmental matters.

The Company is a party to a number of proceedings before federal and state regulatory agencies
relating to environmental remediation. Additionally, the Company, along with many other companies,
has been named as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) in a number of administrative proceedings
for the remediation of various waste sites, including sixteen active Superfund sites. Current laws
potentially impose joint and several liabilities upon each PRP. In assessing its potential
liability at these sites, the Company has considered the following: whether responsibility is being
disputed, the terms of existing agreements, experience at similar sites, and the Company’s
volumetric contribution at these sites.

The Company’s policy is to accrue environmental investigatory and remediation costs for identified
sites when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be
reasonably estimated. The amount of liability recorded is based on an evaluation of currently
available facts with respect to each individual site and includes such factors as existing
technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and prior experience in remediation of
contaminated sites. The liabilities recorded do not take into account any claims for recoveries
from insurance or third parties. As assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, the amounts recorded are
reviewed periodically and adjusted to





reflect
additional technical and legal information that
becomes available. As of January 2, 2010, the Company had reserves of $30 million for remediation
activities associated with Company-owned properties, as well as for Superfund sites, for losses
that are probable and estimable.

The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based on estimates. Amounts recorded
are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal information that
becomes available. Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given
the inherent uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures. Subject to the imprecision in
estimating future environmental costs, the Company does not expect that any sum it may have to pay
in connection with environmental matters in excess of the amounts recorded will have a materially
adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

Employees

At January 2, 2010, the Company had approximately 16,700 employees, nearly 8,200 of whom were
employed in the U.S. Approximately 700 U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements negotiated with 19 different local labor unions who are, in turn, affiliated with
approximately 6 different international labor unions. The majority of the Company’s hourly-paid and
weekly-paid employees outside the U.S. are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. The
Company’s labor agreements in the U.S. expire in 2010, 2011 and 2012. There have been no
significant interruptions or curtailments of the Company’s operations in recent years due to labor
disputes. The Company believes that its relationship with its employees is good.

1(d) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

Financial information regarding the Company’s geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference
to Note P, Business Segments and Geographic Areas, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8.

1(e) AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company’s website is located at http://www.stanleyworks.com. This URL is intended to be an
inactive textual reference only. It is not intended to be an active hyperlink to our website. The
information on our website is not, and is not intended to be, part of this Form 10-K and is not
incorporated into this report by reference. Stanley makes its Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and amendments
to each available free of charge on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing them
with, or furnishing them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.



