ITEM 1.BUSINESS



1(a) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS



(i) General. The Stanley Works (“Stanley”) was
    founded in 1843 by Frederick T. Stanley and incorporated in
    1852. Stanley is a diversified global provider of hand tools,
    mechanical access solutions and electronic security solutions.
    Stanley®is a brand recognized around the world for quality and value.



On March 12, 2010, Stanley completed a merger (the
    “Merger”) with the Black & Decker
    Corporation (“Black & Decker”).
    Black & Decker, which was incorporated in Maryland in
    1910, is a leading global manufacturer and marketer of power
    tools and accessories, hardware and home improvement products,
    and technology-based (engineered) fastening systems.
    Black & Decker enjoys worldwide recognition of its
    strong brand names and a superior reputation for quality,
    design, innovation and value. In connection with the Merger,
    Stanley changed its name to Stanley Black & Decker,
    Inc. Throughout this document, references to the
    “Company” refer to Stanley Black & Decker,
    Inc. The Company’s consolidated financial statements
    include Black & Decker’s results of operations
    and cash flows from March 13, 2010.



As detailed in Note E, Merger and Acquisitions, of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8,
    Black & Decker stockholders received 1.275 shares
    of Stanley common stock for each share of Black &
    Decker common stock outstanding as of the merger date.
    Outstanding Black & Decker equity awards (primarily
    stock options) were similarly exchanged for Stanley equity
    awards. After the exchange was completed, pre-merger Stanley
    shareowners retained ownership of 50.5% of the newly combined
    company. Based on the $57.86 closing price of Stanley common
    stock on March 12, 2010, the aggregate fair value of the
    consideration transferred to consummate the Merger was
    $4.657 billion.





Additionally, it is projected that revenue synergies from the
    Merger will be in the range of $300 million to
    $400 million by 2013, which implies a benefit of
    $0.35 — $0.50 of earnings per diluted share. Revenue
    synergies are expected to add an incremental 50 basis
    points (approximately $50 million) to 2011 revenue growth
    and have a modest earnings impact, with remaining revenue
    synergies to be achieved in 2012 and 2013. The anticipated
    revenue synergies will come from: geographic expansion into
    Latin America and other emerging markets, leveraging
    pre-existing infrastructure (30%); channel and cross-selling of
    existing products, such as the sale of power tools through the
    Company’s industrial and automotive repair distributors
    (30%); brand expansion, i.e. utilizing the array of powerful
    brands in different product categories and channels and





expanding across the globe, as exemplified by the recent
    introduction of DeWalt hand tools in certain channels, (30%);
    and joint new product development, which entails leveraging
    development expertise from both legacy companies to pursue new
    product opportunities (10%). The CDIY segment is expected to
    realize approximately two-thirds of the revenue synergies, and
    the remainder will be split evenly in the Industrial and
    Security segments. In 2011, the Company intends to increase
    capital expenditures to 2.5% — 2.8% of revenues
    partially as a result of infrastructure improvements to foster
    attainment of the revenue synergies. In 2012 and beyond, the
    capital expenditure ratio is expected to return to more
    historical levels (2.0% — 2.5% of revenues) in 2012.



Net sales from continuing operations have increased from
    $3.7 billion in 2009 to a record $8.4 billion in 2010,
    primarily as a result of the Merger, double digit organic growth
    in the legacy Stanley Industrial segment, as well as the effects
    of several smaller acquisitions. The Company sold the CST/berger
    business in 2008 along with several other small divestitures in
    2008. Results have been recast for these discontinued
    operations. Refer to Note E, Merger and Acquisitions, and
    Note T, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a
    discussion of acquisitions and divestitures over the past three
    years.



At January 1, 2011, the Company employed approximately
    36,700 people worldwide. The Company’s principal
    executive office is located at 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain,
    Connecticut 06053 and its telephone number is(860) 225-5111.



(ii) Restructuring Activities. Information regarding the
    Company’s restructuring activities is incorporated herein
    by reference to the material captioned “Restructuring
    Activities” in Item 7 and Note O, Restructuring
    and Asset Impairments, of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements in Item 8.



1(b) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS



Financial information regarding the Company’s business
    segments is incorporated herein by reference to the material
    captioned “Business Segment Results” in Item 7
    and Note P, Business Segments and Geographic Areas, of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.



1(c) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS



The Company’s operations are classified into three
    reportable business segments: Construction &
    Do-It-Yourself (“CDIY”), Security, and Industrial. All
    segments have significant international operations in developed
    countries, but do not have large investments that would be
    subject to expropriation risk in developing countries.
    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the
    U.S. dollar translation of international operations in each
    segment.



After consummation of the Merger, the Black & Decker
    businesses were assessed and integrated into the Company’s
    existing reportable segments. The legacy Black &
    Decker segments: Power Tools and Accessories,
    Hardware & Home Improvement (“HHI”) and
    Fastening and Assembly Systems, were integrated into the
    Company’s CDIY, Security and Industrial segments,
    respectively, with the exception of the Pfister plumbing
    products business which was formerly part of HHI but is included
    in the CDIY segment. The results of Black &
    Decker’s operations are presented within each of these
    segments and reflect activity since the Merger date.



CDIY



The CDIY segment manufactures and markets hand tools, corded and
    cordless electric power tools and equipment, lawn and garden
    products, consumer portable power products, home products,
    accessories and attachments for power tools, plumbing products,
    consumer mechanics tools, storage systems, and pneumatic tools
    and fasteners. These products are sold to professional end
    users, distributors, and consumers, and are primarily
    distributed through retailers (including home centers, mass
    merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards). Hand tools
    include measuring and leveling tools, planes, hammers,
    demolition tools, knives and blades, screwdrivers, saws, chisels
    and consumer tackers. Corded and cordless electric power tools
    and equipment include drills, impact wrenches and drivers,
    wet/dry vacuums, lights, radios/chargers, grinders, various
    saws, polishers, plate joiners, jointers, lathes, dust
    management systems, routers, planers, tile saws, sanders, air
    tools, building instruments, air compressors, laser products,
    and
    Workmate®products. Lawn and garden products include hedge trimmers,
    string trimmers, lawn mowers, edgers, pruners, shears,
    shrubbers, blowers/vacuums, chain saws, and related accessories.
    Consumer portable power products include inverters,





jump-starters, vehicle battery chargers, rechargeable
    spotlights, and other related products. Home products are
    comprised of stick, canister and hand-held vacuums, flexible
    flashlights, paint tools and cleaning solutions. Accessories and
    attachments for power tools include drill bits, hammer bits,
    router bits, hacksaws and blades, circular saw blades, jig and
    reciprocating saw blades, diamond blades, screwdriver bits and
    quick-change systems, bonded and other abrasives and worksite
    tool belts and bags. Plumbing products consist of a variety of
    conventional and decorative lavatory, kitchen, tub and shower
    faucets. Consumer mechanics tools include wrenches and sockets.
    Storage systems include plastic boxes, sawhorses and storage
    units. Pneumatic tools and fasteners include nail guns,
    staplers, nails and staples that are used for construction,
    remodeling, furniture making, pallet manufacturing and other
    applications involving the attachment of wooden materials.



The Company’s product service program supports its power
    tools and lawn and garden products. Replacement parts and
    product repair services are available through a network of
    company-operated service centers. At January 1, 2011, there
    were approximately 100 such service centers, of which
    approximately 80 were located in the United States of America.
    The remaining centers are located around the world, primarily in
    Canada, Europe and Asia. These company-operated service centers
    are supplemented by several hundred authorized service centers
    operated by independent local owners. The Company also operates
    reconditioning centers in which power tools, lawn and garden
    products, and electric cleaning and lighting products are
    reconditioned and then resold through various company-operated
    factory outlets and service centers and various independent
    distributors.



Security



The Security segment provides access and security solutions
    primarily for consumers, retailers, educational, financial and
    healthcare institutions, as well as commercial, governmental and
    industrial customers. The Company provides an extensive suite of
    mechanical and electronic security products and systems, and a
    variety of security services. These include security integration
    systems, software, related installation, maintenance, and
    monitoring services, automatic doors, door closers, electronic
    keyless entry systems, exit devices, healthcare storage and
    supply chain solutions, patient protection products, hardware
    (including door and cabinet knobs and hinges, door stops, kick
    plates, house numbers, gate hardware, cabinet pulls, hooks,
    braces and shelf brackets), locking mechanisms, electronic
    keyless entry systems, keying systems, tubular and mortise door
    locksets. Security products are sold predominantly on a direct
    sales basis, distributed through retailers (including home
    centers) and in certain instances, through third party
    distributors.



Industrial



The Industrial segment manufactures and markets professional
    industrial and automotive mechanics tools and storage systems,
    metal and plastic fasteners and engineered fastening systems,
    hydraulic tools and accessories, and specialty tools. These
    products are sold to industrial customers including automotive,
    transportation, electronics, aerospace, machine tool and
    appliance industries and are distributed through third party
    distributors as well as through direct sales forces. Through its
    acquisition of CRC-Evans Pipeline International
    (“CRC-Evans”) in 2010, the Industrial segment also
    provides services and specialized tools and equipment such as
    custom pipe handling, joint welding and coating equipment used
    in the construction of large and small diameter pipelines.



Professional and automotive mechanics tools and storage systems
    include wrenches, sockets, electronic diagnostic tools, power
    tools, tool boxes and high-density industrial storage and
    retrieval systems. Metal and plastic fasteners and engineered
    fastening systems include blind riveting, stud welding,
    specialty screws, prevailing torque nuts and assemblies, insert
    systems, metal and plastic fasteners, and self-piercing riveting
    systems, as well as electric and pneumatic assembly tools. These
    are high performance precision tools, controllers and systems
    for tightening threaded fasteners used chiefly by vehicle
    manufacturers. Hydraulic tools and accessories are comprised of
    hand-held hydraulic tools and mounted hydraulic tools used by
    scrap yards, contractors, utilities, railroads and public works
    as well as mounted demolition hammers and compactors designed to
    work on skid steer loaders, mini-excavators, backhoes and large
    excavators. Specialty tools are used for assembling, repairing
    and testing electronic equipment.





Competition



The Company competes on the basis of its reputation for product
    quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer
    service, strong customer relationships, the breadth of its
    product lines and its innovative products and customer value
    propositions.



The Company encounters active competition in all of its
    businesses from both larger and smaller companies that offer the
    same or similar products and services or that produce different
    products appropriate for the same uses. The Company has a large
    number of competitors; however, aside from a small number of
    competitors in the consumer hand tool and consumer hardware
    businesses who produce a range of products somewhat comparable
    to the Company’s, the majority of its competitors compete
    only with respect to one or more individual products or product
    lines in that segment. Certain large customers offer private
    label brands (“house brands”) that compete across a
    wider spectrum of the Company’s CDIY segment product
    offerings. The Company is one of the largest manufacturers of
    hand and power tools in the world. The Company is a significant
    manufacturer of pneumatic fastening tools and related fasteners
    for the construction, furniture and pallet industries as well as
    a leading manufacturer of hydraulic tools used for heavy
    construction, railroad, utilities and public works. The Company
    also believes that it is among the larger direct providers of
    commercial access security integration and alarm monitoring
    services in North America and France.



Customers



A significant portion of the Company’s products are sold to
    home centers and mass merchants in the U.S. and Europe. A
    consolidation of retailers both in North America and abroad has
    occurred over time. While this consolidation and the domestic
    and international expansion of these large retailers has
    provided the Company with opportunities for growth, the
    increasing size and importance of individual customers creates a
    certain degree of exposure to potential sales volume loss. As a
    result of the Company’s diversification strategy, legacy
    Stanley sales to U.S. home centers and mass merchants
    declined from a high of approximately 40% in 2002 to 14% in
    2010. On a pro-forma combined basis (as if combined the entire
    year), Stanley and Black & Decker 2010 sales to
    U.S. home centers and mass merchants were approximately
    31%, including nearly 21% of sales to the combined
    Company’s two largest customers. As acquisitions in the
    various growth platforms (electronic/convergent Security,
    mechanical security, engineered fastening, infrastructure
    solutions and healthcare solutions) are made in future years,
    the proportion of sales to these valued U.S. home center
    and mass merchant customers is expected to decrease.



Raw Materials



The Company’s products are manufactured using both ferrous
    and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to steel,
    zinc, copper, brass, aluminum and nickel, and resin also
    represents a significant commodity used in production.
    Additionally, the Company uses other commodity-based materials
    for components and packaging including, but not limited to,
    plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. The raw materials
    required are procured globally and available from multiple
    sources at competitive prices. The Company does not anticipate
    difficulties in obtaining supplies for any raw materials or
    energy used in its production processes.



Backlog



Due to short order cycles and rapid inventory turnover in most
    of the Company’s CDIY and Industrial segment businesses,
    backlog is generally not considered a significant indicator of
    future performance. At February 5, 2011, the Company had
    approximately $705 million in unfilled orders.
    Substantially all of these orders are reasonably expected to be
    filled within the current fiscal year. As of February 6,
    2010 and February 2, 2009, unfilled orders amounted to
    $320 million and $348 million, respectively.



Patents and Trademarks



No business segment is dependent, to any significant degree, on
    patents, licenses, franchises or concessions and the loss of
    these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not
    have a material adverse effect on any of the business segments.
    The Company owns numerous patents, none of which individually is
    material to





the Company’s operations as a whole. These patents expire
    at various times over the next 20 years. The Company holds
    licenses, franchises and concessions, none of which individually
    or in the aggregate are material to the Company’s
    operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and
    concessions vary in duration, but generally run from one to
    40 years.



The Company has numerous trademarks that are used in its
    businesses worldwide. The
    STANLEY®and STANLEY in a Notched
    Rectangle®trademarks are material to all three business segments. These
    well-known trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value
    and are among the world’s most trusted brand names. The
    Company’s tagline, “Make Something
    Great®”

    is the centerpiece of the brand strategy for all segments. In
    the CDIY segment, the
    Bostitch®,

    Bailey®,

    Powerlock®,

    Tape Rule Case
    Design®,

    FatMax®,

    Black &
    Decker®,

    DeWalt®,

    DustBuster®,

    Porter-Cable®,

    Workmate®and
    Pfister®family of trademarks are material. The
    BEST®,

    Blicktm,

    HSM®,

    National®,

    Sargent &
    Greenleaf®,

    S&G®Sonitrol®,

    Xmark®,

    Kwikset®,

    Weiser®,

    and
    Baldwin®trademarks are material to the Security segment. The
    CRC®,

    LaBounty®,

    MAC®,

    Mac
    Tools®,

    Proto®,

    Vidmar®,

    Facom®,

    Virax®,

    USAG®,

    and Emhart
    Teknologiestmtrademarks are material to the Industrial segment. The terms of
    these trademarks vary, typically, from 10 to 20 years, with
    most trademarks being renewable indefinitely for like terms.



Environmental Regulations



The Company is subject to various environmental laws and
    regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries where it has
    operations. Future laws and regulations are expected to be
    increasingly stringent and will likely increase the
    Company’s expenditures related to environmental matters.



clean-up



The EPA and the Santa Ana Regional Water Quality Control Board
    have each initiated administrative proceedings against
    Black & Decker and certain of its current or former
    affiliates alleging that Black & Decker and numerous
    other defendants are responsible to investigate and remediate
    alleged groundwater contamination in and adjacent to a160-acreproperty located in Rialto, California. The cities of Colton and
    Rialto, as well as Goodrich Corporation, also initiated lawsuits
    against Black & Decker and certain of its former or
    current affiliates in the Federal District Court for California,
    Central District alleging similar claims that Black &
    Decker is liable under CERCLA, the Resource Conservation and
    Recovery Act, and state law for the discharge or release of
    hazardous substances into the environment and the contamination
    caused by those alleged releases. The City of Colton also has a
    companion case in California State court, which is currently
    stayed for all purposes. Certain defendants in that case have
    cross-claims against other defendants and have





asserted claims against the State of California. The
    administrative proceedings and the lawsuits generally allege
    that West Coast Loading Corporation (“WCLC”), a
    defunct company that operated in Rialto between 1952 and 1957,
    and an as yet undefined number of other defendants are
    responsible for the release of perchlorate and solvents into the
    groundwater basin, and that Black & Decker and certain
    of its current or former affiliates are liable as a
    “successor” of WCLC. The Company believes that neither
    the facts nor the law support an allegation that
    Black & Decker is responsible for the contamination
    and is vigorously contesting these claims.



In addition, the Company is a party to a number of proceedings
    before federal and state regulatory agencies relating to
    environmental remediation. Also, the Company, along with many
    other companies, has been named as a PRP in a number of
    administrative proceedings for the remediation of various waste
    sites, including 36 active Superfund sites. Current laws
    potentially impose joint and several liabilities upon each PRP.
    In assessing its potential liability at these sites, the Company
    has considered the following: whether responsibility is being
    disputed, the terms of existing agreements, experience at
    similar sites, and the Company’s volumetric contribution at
    these sites.





The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is
    based on estimates. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically
    and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal
    information that becomes available. Actual costs to be incurred
    in future periods may vary from the estimates, given the
    inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures. Subject
    to the imprecision in estimating future contingent liability
    costs, the Company does not expect that any sum it may have to
    pay in connection with these matters in excess of the amounts
    recorded will have a materially adverse effect on its financial
    position, results of operations or liquidity.



Employees



At January 1, 2011, the Company had approximately
    36,700 employees, nearly 14,400 of whom were employed in
    the U.S. Approximately 950 U.S. employees are covered
    by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with 21 different
    local labor unions who are, in turn, affiliated with
    approximately 6 different international labor unions. The
    majority of the Company’s hourly-paid and weekly-paid
    employees outside the U.S. are not covered by collective
    bargaining agreements. The Company’s labor agreements in
    the U.S. expire in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. There have
    been no significant interruptions or curtailments of the
    Company’s operations in recent years due to labor disputes.
    The Company believes that its relationship with its employees is
    good.



1(d) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS



Financial information regarding the Company’s geographic
    areas is incorporated herein by reference to Note P,
    Business Segments and Geographic Areas, of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.





1(e) AVAILABLE INFORMATION



The Company’s website is located athttp://www.stanleyblackanddecker.com.This URL is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.
    It is not intended to be an active hyperlink to our website. The
    information on our website is not, and is not intended to be,
    part of thisForm 10-Kand is not incorporated into this report by reference. The
    Company makes itsForms 10-K,10-Q,8-Kand
    amendments to each available free of charge on its website as
    soon as reasonably practicable after filing them with, or
    furnishing them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission.



