ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

AtDecember 29, 2012, the Company employed45,327people worldwide. The Company’s principal executive office is located at 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053 and its telephone number is (860) 225-5111.

Description of the Business

The Company’s operations are classified into three reportable business segments, which also represent its operating segments: Construction & Do-It-Yourself (“CDIY”), Security, and Industrial. The Company’s consolidated financial statements include Black & Decker’s results of operations and cash flows from March 13, 2010. All segments have significant international operations in developed countries, but do not have large investments that would be subject to expropriation risk in developing countries. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the U.S. dollar translation of international operations in each segment.

Additional information regarding the Company’s business segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to the material captioned “Business Segment Results” in Item 7 and Note P, Business Segments and Geographic Areas, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.














CDIY

The CDIY segment is comprised of the Professional Power Tool and Accessories business, the Consumer Power Tool business, which includes outdoor products and the Hand Tools, Fasteners & Storage business. The segment sells its products to professional end users, distributors and retail consumers. The majority of sales are distributed through retailers, including home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards. Annual revenues in the CDIY segment were$5.2 billionin2012, representing51%of the Company’s total revenues.

The Professional Power Tool and Accessories business sells professional grade corded and cordless electric power tools and equipment including drills, impact wrenches and drivers, grinders, saws, routers and sanders. The business also sells power tool accessories which include drill bits, router bits, abrasives and saw blades.

The Hand Tools, Fasteners & Storage business sells measuring and leveling tools, planes, hammers, demolition tools, knives, saws and chisels. Fastening products include pneumatic tools and fasteners including nail guns, nails, staplers and staples. Storage products include tool boxes, sawhorses and storage units.

The Consumer Power Tool business sells corded and cordless electric power tools sold under the Black & Decker brand, lawn and garden products and home products. Lawn and garden products include hedge trimmers, string trimmers, lawn mowers, edgers, and related accessories. Home products include hand held vacuums, paint tools and cleaning appliances.

Security

The Security segment is comprised of the Convergent Security Solutions ("CSS") and Mechanical Access Solutions ("MAS") businesses. Annual revenues in the Security segment were$2.4 billionin2012, representing24%of the Company’s total revenues.

The CSS business designs, supplies and installs electronic security systems and provides electronic security services, including alarm monitoring, video surveillance, fire alarm monitoring, systems integration and system maintenance. Purchasers of these systems typically contract for ongoing security systems monitoring and maintenance at the time of initial equipment installation. The business also sells healthcare solutions, which includes medical carts and cabinets, asset tracking solutions, infant protection, pediatric protection, patient protection, wander management, fall management, and emergency call products. The CSS business sells to consumers, retailers, educational, financial and healthcare institutions, as well as commercial, governmental and industrial customers. Products are sold predominantly on a direct sales basis.

The MAS business sells and installs automatic doors, commercial hardware, locking mechanisms, electronic keyless entry systems, keying systems, tubular and mortise door locksets. MAS sells to commercial customers primarily through direct and independent distribution channels.

Industrial

The Industrial segment is comprised of the Industrial and Automotive Repair ("IAR"), Engineered Fastening and Infrastructure businesses. Annual revenues in the Industrial segment were$2.6 billionin2012, representing25%of the Company’s total revenues.

The IAR business sells hand tools, power tools, and engineered storage solution products. The business sells to industrial customers in a wide variety of industries and geographies. The products are distributed through third party distributors as well as a direct sales force.

The Engineered Fastening business primarily sells engineered fastening products and systems designed for specific applications. The product lines include stud welding systems, blind rivets and tools, blind inserts and tools, drawn arc weld studs, engineered plastic fasteners, self-piercing riveting systems and precision nut running systems. The business sells to customers in the automotive, manufacturing, and aerospace industries, amongst others, and its products are distributed through direct sales forces and, to a lesser extent, third party distributors.

The Infrastructure business consists of CRC-Evans and the Company’s Hydraulics businesses. The product lines within the Infrastructure business include custom pipe handling machinery, joint welding and coating machinery, weld inspection services and hydraulic tools and accessories. The business sells to the oil and natural gas pipeline industry and other industrial customers. The products and services are primarily distributed through a direct sales force and, to a lesser extent, third party distributors.












Operating Segments – Other Information

Competition

The Company competes on the basis of its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer service, strong customer relationships, the breadth of its product lines and its innovative products and customer value propositions.

The Company encounters active competition in the CDIY and Industrial segments from both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services. Certain large customers offer private label brands (“house brands”) that compete across a wider spectrum of the Company’s CDIY segment product offerings. Competition in the Security segment is generally fragmented via both large international players and regional companies. Competition tends to be based primarily on price, the quality of service and comprehensiveness of the services offered to the customers.

Major Customers

A significant portion of the Company’s CDIY products are sold to home centers and mass merchants in the U.S. and Europe. A consolidation of retailers both in North America and abroad has occurred over time. While this consolidation and the domestic and international expansion of these large retailers has provided the Company with opportunities for growth, the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential sales volume loss. As a result of the Company’s diversification strategy, sales to U.S. home centers and mass merchants declined from a high of approximately 40% in 2002, to 15% before the Black & Decker merger. In2012, sales to U.S. home centers and mass merchants were 18%.  As acquisitions in the various growth platforms (Convergent and Mechanical Security, Engineered Fastening, Infrastructure and Healthcare) are made in future years, the proportion of sales to these valued U.S. and international home center and mass merchant customers is expected to continue to decrease to levels prior to the Black & Decker merger.

Working Capital

The Company continues to practice the operating disciplines encompassed by the Stanley Fulfillment System (“SFS”).  SFS has five primary elements that work in concert: sales and operations planning, operational lean, complexity reduction, global supply management, and order-to-cash excellence. The Company develops standardized business processes and system platforms to reduce costs and provide scalability.  SFS is instrumental in the reduction of working capital evidenced by the improvement in working capital turns for legacy Stanley from 4.6 in 2003 to 8.6 at the end of 2009, directly preceding the merger. Closing out 2010, once blended with the legacy Black & Decker working capital turns of 4.7, working capital turns for the combined company were 5.7 (excluding HHI, working capital turns were 5.9). The continued efforts to deploy SFS across the entire Company and increase turns has created significant opportunities to generate incremental free cash flow.  Working capital turns have experienced a 32% improvement from 5.7 at the end of 2010 to 7.5 at the end of 2012.  Going forward, the Company plans to further leverage SFS to generate ongoing improvements both in the existing business and future acquisitions in working capital turns, cycle times, complexity reduction and customer service levels, with a goal of achieving 10 working capital turns by mid-decade.

Raw Materials

The Company’s products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum and nickel. The Company also purchases resins, batteries, motors, and electronic components to use in manufacturing and assembly operations. The raw materials required are procured globally and available from multiple sources at competitive prices. As part of the Company's Enterprise Risk Management, the Company has implemented a supplier risk mitigation strategy in order to identify and address any potential supply disruption associated with commodities, components, finished goods and critical services. The Company does not anticipate difficulties in obtaining supplies for any raw materials or energy used in its production processes.

Backlog

Due to short order cycles and rapid inventory turnover in most of the Company’s CDIY and Industrial segment businesses, backlog is generally not considered a significant indicator of future performance. At February 2, 2013, the Company had approximately $850 million in unfilled orders, which mainly relate to the Company’s Security segment. Substantially all of these orders are reasonably expected to be filled within the current fiscal year. As of February 4, 2012 and February 5, 2011, unfilled orders amounted to $770 million and $705 million, respectively.


















Patents and Trademarks

No business segment is dependent, to any significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or concessions, and the loss of these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not have a material adverse effect on any of the business segments. The Company owns numerous patents, none of which individually is material to the Company's operations as a whole. These patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. The Company holds licenses, franchises and concessions, none of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the Company's operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and concessions vary in duration, but generally run from one to 40 years.



The Company has numerous trademarks that are used in its businesses worldwide. In the CDIY segment, the STANLEY®, FatMax®, DEWALT®, Black & Decker®, Bostitch®, Bailey®, Powerlock®, Tape Rule Case Design®, DustBuster®, Porter-Cable®, and Workmate® of trademarks are material. The STANLEY®, BEST®, Blick™, HSM®, Sargent & Greenleaf®, S&G® Sonitrol®, Niscayah®, and Xmark® trademarks are material to the Security segment. The DEWALT®, CRC®, LaBounty®, MAC®, Mac Tools®, Proto®, Vidmar®, Facom®, and Emhart Teknologies™ trademarks are material to the Industrial segment. The terms of these trademarks typically vary from 10 to 20 years, with most trademarks being renewable indefinitely for like terms.

Environmental Regulations

The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries where it has operations. Future laws and regulations are expected to be increasingly stringent and will likely increase the Company’s expenditures related to environmental matters.

In the normal course of business, the Company is involved in various lawsuits and claims. In addition, the Company is a party to a number of proceedings before federal and state regulatory agencies relating to environmental remediation. The Company’s policy is to accrue environmental investigatory and remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. In the event that no amount in the range of probable loss is considered most likely, the minimum loss in the range is accrued. The amount of liability recorded is based on an evaluation of currently available facts with respect to each individual site and includes such factors as existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and prior experience in remediation of contaminated sites. The liabilities recorded do not take into account any claims for recoveries from insurance or third parties. As assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, the amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal information that becomes available. As of

December 29, 2012

and

December 31, 2011

, the Company had reserves of

$188.0 million

and

$164.8 million

, respectively, for remediation activities associated with Company-owned properties, as well as for Superfund sites, for losses that are probable and estimable. Of the


amount,

$6.0 million

is classified as current and

$182.0 million

as long-term, which is expected to be paid over the estimated remediation period.  As of December 29, 2012, the Company has recorded an asset of $24.3 million related to funding by EPA and placed in trust in accordance with the Consent Decree associated with the West Coast Loading Corporation ("WCLC") proceedings, as further discussed in Note S, Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  Accordingly, the cash obligation as of December 29, 2012 of the Company associated with the aforementioned remediation activities is $163.7 million.  The range of environmental remediation costs that is reasonably possible is

$141 million

to

$283 million

, which is subject to change in the near term. The Company may be liable for environmental remediation of sites it no longer owns. Liabilities have been recorded on those sites in accordance with policy.

The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based on estimates. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal information that becomes available. Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future contingent liability costs, the Company does not expect that any sum it may have to pay in connection with these matters in excess of the amounts recorded will have a materially adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Additional information regarding environmental matters is available in Note S, Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Employees

AtDecember 29, 2012, the Company had45,327employees, 12,500 of whom are employed in the U.S. Approximately 800 U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with 21 different local labor unions who are, in turn, affiliated with approximately 6 different international labor unions. The majority of the Company’s hourly-paid and weekly-paid employees outside the U.S. are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Company’s labor agreements in the U.S. expire in 2013 and 2014. There have been no significant interruptions of the Company’s operations in recent years due to labor disputes. The Company believes that its relationship with its employees is good.










Research and Development Costs

Research and development costs, which are classified in SG&A, were$174.8 million,$139.3 millionand$124.5 millionfor fiscal years2012,2011and2010, respectively.

Available Information

The Company’s website is located at http://www.stanleyblackanddecker.com. This URL is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. It is not intended to be an active hyperlink to the Company's website. The information on the Company's website is not, and is not intended to be, part of this Form 10-K and is not incorporated into this report by reference. The Company makes its Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and amendments to each available free of charge on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing them with, or furnishing them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.





