ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

The Stanley Works (“Stanley”) was founded in 1843 by Fredrick T. Stanley
and incorporated in 1852. In March of 2010, Stanley completed a merger (“the Merger”) with the Black & Decker Corporation (“Black & Decker”). Black & Decker is recognized worldwide for its strong brand
names and a superior reputation for quality, design, innovation and value. Management believes the Merger represented a transformative event bringing together two highly complementary companies with iconic brands, rich business histories and common
distribution channels, yet minimal product overlap. The Merger also enabled a global offering in hand and power tools, as well as hardware, thus enhancing the Company’s value proposition to customers. In connection with the Merger, Stanley
changed its name to Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (“the Company”).

The Company is a diversified global provider of power and
hand tools, mechanical access solutions (i.e. automatic doors, commercial and residential locking systems), electronic security and monitoring systems and products and services for various industrial applications with 2011 consolidated annual
revenues of $10.4 billion. The Company is continuing to pursue a diversification strategy that involves industry, geographic and customer diversification to foster sustainable revenue, earnings and cash flow growth. The Company has four growth
platforms: security (both electronic and mechanical), engineered fastening, infrastructure and healthcare solutions. The Company intends to focus on organic growth across all of its businesses, with the majority of acquisition-related investments
being within the four growth platforms. Finally, approximately 51% of the Company’s annual revenues are generated in the United States in 2011, with the remainder largely from Europe, Latin America, and Canada.

Execution of this diversification strategy has entailed approximately $4.6 billion of acquisitions since 2002 (aside from the Merger) and increased brand
investment, enabled by strong cash flow generation. The September 2011 acquisition of Niscayah Group AB (“Niscayah”) for a total purchase price of $984.5 million and the July 2010 purchase of CRC-Evans Pipeline International
(“CRC-Evans”) for $451.6 million demonstrate this strategy. Niscayah is one of the largest access control and surveillance solutions providers in Europe. Niscayah’s integrated security solutions include video surveillance, access
control, intrusion alarms and fire alarm systems, and its offerings include design and installation services, maintenance and repair, and monitoring systems. The acquisition expands and complements the Company’s existing electronic security
offerings and further diversifies the Company’s operations and international presence. CRC-Evans is a full line supplier of specialized tools, equipment and services used in the construction of large diameter oil and natural gas transmission
pipelines both on and offshore. CRC-Evans also sells and rents custom pipe handling and joint welding and coating equipment used in the construction of large and small diameter pipelines. The acquisition of CRC-Evans served to establish the
beginning of the infrastructure platform whereby the Company can provide tools and services to a new set of high growth, high margin end markets and channels.

At December 31, 2011, the Company employed approximately 44,700 people worldwide. The Company’s principal executive office is located at 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053
and its telephone number is (860) 225-5111.

Description of the Business

The Company’s operations are classified into three reportable business segments, which also represents its operating segments: Construction & Do-It-Yourself (“CDIY”), Security, and
Industrial. The Company’s consolidated financial statements include Black & Decker’s results of operations and cash flows from March 13,






2010. All segments have significant international operations in developed countries, but do not have large investments that would be subject to expropriation risk in developing countries.
Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the U.S. dollar translation of international operations in each segment.

Additional information regarding the Company’s business segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to the material captioned
“Business Segment Results” in Item 7 and Note P, Business Segments and Geographic Areas, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

CDIY

The CDIY segment is comprised of the professional power tool and accessories
business, the consumer power tool business, which includes outdoor products, plumbing (Pfister) and the hand tools, fasteners & storage business. The segment sells its products to professional end users, distributors and retail consumers.
The majority of sales are distributed through retailers, including home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards. Annual revenues in the CDIY segment were $5.3 billion in 2011, representing 50% of the Company’s total
revenues.

The professional power tool and accessories business sells professional grade corded and cordless electric power tools and
equipment including drills, impact wrenches and drivers, grinders, saws, routers and sanders. The business also sells power tool accessories which include drill bits, router bits, abrasives and saw blades.

The consumer power tool business sells corded and cordless power tools sold under the Black & Decker brand, lawn and garden products and home
products. Lawn and garden products include hedge trimmers, string trimmers, lawn mowers, edgers, and related accessories. Home products include hand held vacuums, paint tools and cleaning appliances.

The hand tools, fasteners & storage business sells measuring and leveling tools, planes, hammers, demolition tools, knives, saws and chisels.
Fastening products include pneumatic tools and fasteners including nail guns, nails, staplers and staples. Storage products include tool boxes, sawhorses and storage units.

Security

The Security segment is comprised of the electronic security solutions and the
mechanical access solutions businesses. Annual revenues in the Security segment were $2.6 billion in 2011, representing 26% of the Company’s total revenues.

The electronic security solutions business designs, supplies and installs electronic security systems and provides electronic security services, including alarm monitoring, video surveillance, fire alarm
monitoring, systems integration and system maintenance. Purchasers of these systems typically contract for ongoing security systems monitoring and maintenance at the time of initial equipment installation. The electronic security business also sells
healthcare solutions, which includes medical carts and cabinets, asset tracking solutions, infant protection, pediatric protection, patient protection, wander management, fall management, and emergency call products. The electronic security
solutions business sells to consumers, retailers, educational, financial and healthcare institutions, as well as commercial, governmental and industrial customers. Products are sold predominantly on a direct sales basis.

The mechanical access solutions business sells and installs automatic doors, residential and commercial hardware, locking mechanisms, electronic keyless
entry systems, keying systems, tubular and mortise door locksets. The mechanical access solutions business sells to both residential and commercial customers, with distribution through direct sales, through retailers (including home centers) and,
through third party distributors.






Industrial

The Industrial segment is comprised of the industrial and automotive repair tools, engineered fastening and infrastructure businesses. Annual revenues in the Industrial segment were $2.5 billion in 2011,
representing 24% of the Company’s total revenues.

The industrial and automotive repair business sells hand tools, power tools, and
engineered storage solution products. The business sells to industrial customers in a wide variety of industries and geographies. The products are distributed through third party distributors as well as a direct sales force.

The engineered fastening business primarily sells engineered fasteners designed for specific applications. The product lines include stud welding
systems, blind rivets and tools, blind inserts and tools, drawn arc weld studs, engineered plastic fasteners, self-piercing riveting systems and precision nut running systems. The business sells to customers in the automotive, manufacturing, and
aerospace industries, amongst others, and its products are distributed through direct sales forces.

The infrastructure business consists of
the CRC-Evans business, and the Company’s hydraulics business. The business’s product lines include custom pipe handling machinery, joint welding and coating machinery, weld inspection services and hydraulic tools and accessories.
The business sells to the oil and natural gas pipeline industry and other industrial customers. The products and services are primarily distributed through a direct sales force.

Operating Segments – Other Information

Competition

The Company competes on the basis of its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer service, strong customer
relationships, the breadth of its product lines and its innovative products and customer value propositions.

The Company encounters active
competition in the CDIY and Industrial segments from both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services. Certain large customers offer private label brands (“house brands”) that compete across a wider
spectrum of the Company’s CDIY segment product offerings. Competition in the Security segment is generally fragmented via both large international players and regional companies. Competition tends to be based primarily on price, the quality of
service and comprehensiveness of the services offered to the customers.

Major Customers

A significant portion of the Company’s CDIY and Industrial products are sold to home centers and mass merchants in the U.S. and Europe. A
consolidation of retailers both in North America and abroad has occurred over time. While this consolidation and the domestic and international expansion of these large retailers has provided the Company with opportunities for growth, the increasing
size and importance of individual customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential sales volume loss. As a result of the Company’s diversification strategy, sales to U.S. home centers and mass merchants declined from a high of
approximately 40% in 2002, to 15% before the Merger. In 2011, sales to U.S. home centers and mass merchants were 18%. As acquisitions in the various growth platforms (electronic and mechanical security, engineered fastening, infrastructure and
healthcare solutions) are made in future years, the proportion of sales to these valued U.S. and international home center and mass merchant customers is expected to continue to decrease to pre-Merger levels.

Working Capital

The Company continues
to practice the operating disciplines encompassed by the Stanley Fulfillment System (“SFS”). SFS has five primary elements that work in concert: sales and operations planning, operational lean, complexity reduction, global supply
management, and order-to-cash excellence. The Company develops






standardized business processes and system platforms to reduce costs and provide scalability. SFS is instrumental in the reduction of working capital evidenced by the improvement in working
capital turns for legacy Stanley from 4.6 in 2003 to 8.6 at the end of 2009, directly preceding the merger. Closing out 2010, once blended with the legacy Black & Decker working capital turns of 4.7, working capital turns for the combined
company were 5.7. The opportunity to deploy SFS across the entire combined enterprise and increase turns represented a significant opportunity to generate incremental free cash flow. Through the initial integration of the legacy Black &
Decker businesses and the ongoing improvement of the legacy Stanley businesses with the SFS model, working capital turns experienced a 23% improvement from the end of 2010 to 7.0 at the end of 2011 (excluding the impact of Niscayah). In 2012 and
beyond, the Company plans to further leverage SFS to generate ongoing improvements both in the existing business and future acquisitions in working capital turns, cycle times, complexity reduction and customer service levels.

Raw Materials

The Company’s
products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum and nickel. The Company also purchases resins, batteries, motors, and electronic components to use in
manufacturing and assembly operations. The raw materials required are procured globally and available from multiple sources at competitive prices. The Company employs a supplier risk mitigation strategy in order to identify and address any potential
supply disruption associated with commodities, components, finished goods and critical services. The Company does not anticipate difficulties in obtaining supplies for any raw materials or energy used in its production processes.

Backlog

Due to short order cycles and
rapid inventory turnover in most of the Company’s CDIY and Industrial segment businesses, backlog is generally not considered a significant indicator of future performance. At February 4, 2012, the Company had approximately $770 million in
unfilled orders, which mainly relate to the Company’s Security segment. Substantially all of these orders are reasonably expected to be filled within the current fiscal year. As of February 5, 2011 and February 6, 2010, unfilled
orders amounted to $705 million and $320 million, respectively.

Patents and Trademarks

No business segment is dependent, to any significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or concessions and the loss of these patents, licenses,
franchises or concessions would not have a material adverse effect on any of the business segments. The Company owns numerous patents, none of which individually is material to the Company’s operations as a whole. These patents expire at
various times over the next 20 years. The Company holds licenses, franchises and concessions, none of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the Company’s operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and concessions
vary in duration, but generally run from one to 40 years.

The Company has numerous trademarks that are used in its
businesses worldwide. In the CDIY segment, the STANLEY®,
FatMax®, DEWalt®, Black & Decker®,
Bostitch®, Bailey®, Powerlock®, Tape
Rule Case Design®, DustBuster®, Porter-Cable®, and Workmate®of trademarks are material. The STANLEY®, BEST®, Blicktm, HSM®, National®,
Sargent & Greenleaf®, S&G®Sonitrol®, Niscayah®, Xmark®, Kwikset®, Weiser®, and Baldwin®trademarks are material to the Security segment. The DEWalt®, CRC®, LaBounty®, MAC®, Mac Tools®, Proto®, Vidmar®, Facom®, USAG®, and Emhart Teknologiestmtrademarks are material to the Industrial segment. The terms of these trademarks typically vary from 10 to
20 years, with most trademarks being renewable indefinitely for like terms.

Environmental Regulations

The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries where it has operations. Future laws and
regulations are expected to be increasingly stringent and will likely increase the Company’s expenditures related to environmental matters.






The amount recorded for identified contingent
liabilities is based on estimates. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal information that becomes available. Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given
the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future contingent liability costs, the Company does not expect that any sum it may have to pay in connection with these matters in excess of the
amounts recorded will have a materially adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Additional information regarding environmental matters is available in Note S, Contingencies, of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8.

Employees

At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 44,700 employees, 16,600 of whom are employed in the U.S. Approximately 800 U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements
negotiated with 21 different local labor unions who are, in turn, affiliated with approximately 6 different international labor unions. The majority of the Company’s hourly-paid and weekly-paid employees outside the U.S. are not covered by
collective bargaining agreements. The Company’s labor agreements in the U.S. expire in 2012, 2013, and 2014. There have been no significant interruptions of the Company’s operations in recent years due to labor disputes. The Company
believes that its relationship with its employees is good.

Available Information

The Company’s website is located at http://www.stanleyblackanddecker.com. This URL is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. It is not
intended to be an active hyperlink to our website. The information on our website is not, and is not intended to be, part of this Form 10-K and is not incorporated into this report by reference. The Company makes its Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K
and amendments to each available free of charge on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing them with, or furnishing them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.






