ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General

We provide scheduled air transportation for passengers and cargo throughout the United States
and around the world. Our global route network gives us a presence in every major domestic and
international market. Our route network is centered around the hub system we operate at airports in
Amsterdam, Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York-JFK, Paris-Charles
de Gaulle, Salt Lake City and Tokyo-Narita. Each of these hub operations includes flights that
gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region surrounding the hub to domestic
and international cities and to other hubs. Our network is supported by a fleet of aircraft that is
varied in terms of size and capabilities, giving us flexibility to adjust aircraft to the network.

Other key characteristics of our route network include:

•our alliances with foreign airlines, including our membership in SkyTeam, a global
airline alliance;•our transatlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia;•our domestic marketing alliance with Alaska Airlines, which expands our
west coast service; and•agreements with multiple domestic regional carriers, which operate as Delta Connection,
including our wholly-owned subsidiary, Comair, Inc.

We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices
are located at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta, Georgia. Our telephone number is (404) 715-2600 and our Internet address is www.delta.com.
Information contained on this website is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference in, this
Form 10-K.

International Alliances

We have bilateral and multilateral marketing alliances with foreign airlines to improve our
access to international markets. These arrangements can include codesharing, reciprocal frequent
flyer program benefits, shared or reciprocal access to passenger lounges, joint promotions, common
use of airport gates and ticket counters, ticket office co-location and other marketing agreements.
These alliances often present opportunities in other areas, such as airport ground handling
arrangements and aircraft maintenance insourcing.

Our international codesharing agreements enable us to market and sell seats to an expanded
number of international destinations. Under international codesharing arrangements, we and a
foreign carrier each publish our respective airline designator codes on a single flight operation,
thereby allowing us and the foreign carrier to offer joint service with one aircraft, rather than
operating separate services with two aircraft. These arrangements typically allow us to sell seats
on a foreign carrier’s aircraft that are marketed under our designator code and permit the foreign
airline to sell seats on our aircraft that are marketed under the foreign carrier’s designator
code.

We have international codeshare arrangements with Aeromexico, Air France, Air Nigeria,
Alitalia, Avianca, China Airlines, China Southern, CSA Czech Airlines, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines,
Korean Air, Olympic Air, Royal Air Maroc, VRG Linhas Aéreas (GOL), Vietnam Airlines and Virgin Blue
Airlines (and some affiliated carriers operating in conjunction with some of these airlines).





SkyTeam. In addition to our marketing alliance agreements with individual foreign airlines, we
are a member of the SkyTeam global airline alliance. The other members of SkyTeam are Aeroflot,
Aeromexico, Air Europa, Air France, Alitalia, China Southern, CSA Czech Airlines, Kenya Airways,
KLM, Korean Air, Tarom and Vietnam Airlines. Aerolineas Argentinas, China Eastern, Garuda Indonesia
and Saudi Arabian Airlines have announced their formal intent to join SkyTeam within the next 2
years.One goal of SkyTeam is to link the route networks of the member airlines, providing
opportunities for increased connecting traffic while offering enhanced customer service through
mutual codesharing arrangements, reciprocal frequent flyer and lounge programs and coordinated
cargo operations.

Transatlantic joint venture. In addition to being members in SkyTeam with Air France and KLM,
both of which are subsidiaries of the same holding company, and Alitalia, we have a transatlantic
joint venture agreement with these carriers. This agreement provides for the sharing of revenues
and costs on transatlantic routes, as well as coordinated pricing, scheduling, and product
development on included routes. Pursuant to this joint venture, we, Air France-KLM and Alitalia
operate an extensive transatlantic network, primarily on routes between North America and Europe,
and secondarily on routes between North America and Africa, the Middle East and India, and routes
between Europe and Central America and several countries in northern South America.

Proposed joint venture with Virgin Blue Airlines Group. In July 2009, we and Virgin Blue
International Airlines (VAustralia), Virgin Blue Airlines, Pacific Blue Airlines (Australia) and
Pacific Blue Airlines (New Zealand) filed an application with the U.S. Department of Transportation
(“DOT”) for antitrust immunity for a proposed joint venture that will expand the reach of Delta and
the Virgin Blue carriers between the United States and Australia and the South Pacific. In
September 2010, the DOT tentatively denied this application. We and the Virgin Blue carriers
subsequently submitted additional information about our proposed joint venture to the DOT and will
submit further information in early 2011. We expect the DOT to make a final ruling on this
application in 2011.

Domestic Alliances

We
have entered into a marketing alliance with Alaska Airlines, which includes mutual
codesharing and reciprocal frequent flyer and airport lounge access arrangements. Our alliance
agreement with Alaska Airlines provides for extensive cooperation with respect to our west coast
presence.

We also have frequent flyer and reciprocal lounge agreements with Hawaiian Airlines, and
codesharing agreements with American Eagle Airlines (“American Eagle”) and Hawaiian Airlines. These
marketing relationships are designed to permit the carriers to retain their separate identities and
route networks while increasing the number of domestic and international connecting passengers
using the carriers’ route networks.

Regional Carriers

We have air service agreements with multiple domestic regional air carriers that feed traffic
to our route system by serving passengers primarily in small-and medium-sized cities. These
arrangements enable us to increase the number of flights we have available in certain locations and
to better match capacity with demand. Approximately 21% of our passenger revenue in 2010 was
related to flying by regional air carriers.

Through our regional carrier program, we have contractual arrangements with nine regional
carriers to operate regional jet and, in certain cases, turbo-prop aircraft using our “DL”
designator code. In addition to our wholly-owned subsidiary, Comair, we have contractual
arrangements with: Atlantic Southeast Airlines, Inc. and SkyWest Airlines, Inc., both subsidiaries
of SkyWest, Inc.; Chautauqua Airlines, Inc. and Shuttle America Corporation, both subsidiaries of
Republic Airways Holdings, Inc.; Compass Airlines, Inc.; Pinnacle Airlines, Inc. and Mesaba
Aviation, Inc., both subsidiaries of Pinnacle Airlines Corp.; and American Eagle.





With the exception of American Eagle and a portion of the flights operated for us by SkyWest
Airlines as described below, these agreements are capacity purchase arrangements, under which we
control the scheduling, pricing, reservations, ticketing and seat inventories for the regional
carriers’ flights operating under our “DL” designator code, and we are entitled to all ticket,
cargo, mail and in-flight and ancillary revenues associated with these flights. We pay those
airlines an amount, as defined in the applicable agreement, which is based on a determination of
their cost of operating those flights and other factors intended to approximate market rates for
those services. These capacity purchase agreements are long-term agreements, usually with initial
terms of at least 10 years, which grant us the option to extend the initial term. Certain of these
agreements provide us the right to terminate the entire agreement, or in some cases remove some of
the aircraft from the scope of the agreement, for convenience at certain future dates.

Our arrangements with American Eagle, limited to certain flights operated to and from the Los
Angeles International Airport, as well as a portion of the flights operated for us by SkyWest
Airlines, are structured as revenue proration agreements. These proration agreements establish a
fixed dollar or percentage division of revenues for tickets sold to passengers traveling on
connecting flight itineraries.



Frequent Flyer Program

Our SkyMiles®frequent flyer program is designed to retain and increase traveler loyalty by
offering incentives to customers to increase travel on Delta. The SkyMiles program allows program
members to earn mileage for travel awards by flying on Delta, Delta’s regional carriers and other
participating airlines. Mileage credit may also be earned by using certain services offered by
program participants, such as credit card companies, hotels and car rental agencies. In addition, individuals and companies may purchase mileage
credits.
Miles will not expire, but are subject to all program rules.
We reserve the right to terminate the program with six months advance notice, and to
change the program’s terms and conditions at any time without notice.

SkyMiles program mileage credits can be redeemed for air travel on Delta and participating
airlines, for membership in our Delta Sky Clubs®and for other program participant awards. Mileage
credits are subject to certain transfer restrictions and travel awards are subject to
capacity-controlled seating. In 2010, program members redeemed more than
264 billion miles in the SkyMiles program for more than 12 million award redemptions. During this
period, 8.3% of revenue miles flown on Delta were from award travel.



Other Businesses

Cargo

Through the strength of our global network, our cargo operations are able to connect all of
the world’s major freight gateways. We generate cargo revenues in domestic and international
markets primarily through the use of cargo space on regularly scheduled passenger aircraft. We are
a member of SkyTeam Cargo, a global airline cargo alliance, whose other members are Aeromexico
Cargo, Air France Cargo, Alitalia Cargo, CSA Czech Airlines Cargo, KLM Cargo and Korean Air Cargo.
SkyTeam Cargo offers a global network spanning six continents, provides customers a consistent
international product line and permits its members to improve their efficiency and effectiveness in
the marketplace.





Delta TechOps, Delta Global Services,  MLT Vacations and Delta Private Jets

We have several other businesses arising from our airline operations, including aircraft
maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”), staffing services for third parties, vacation
wholesale operations and our private jet operations. Our MRO operations, known as Delta TechOps, is the largest airline MRO in
North America. In addition to providing maintenance and engineering support for our fleet of
approximately 750 aircraft, Delta TechOps serves more than 150 aviation and airline customers from
around the world. Delta TechOps employs approximately 8,500 maintenance professionals and is one of
the most experienced MRO providers in the world. Our staffing services business, Delta Global
Services, provides staffing services, professional security, training services and aviation
solutions to approximately 150 customers. Our vacation wholesale business, MLT Vacations, is one
of the largest providers of vacation packages in the United States. Our private jet operations, Delta
Private Jets, provides aircraft charters, aircraft management and programs allowing members to
purchase flight time by the hour.  In 2010, the total revenue
from these businesses was approximately $700 million.



Fuel

Our results of operations are significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability
of aircraft fuel. The following table shows our aircraft fuel consumption and costs for 2008
through 2010.

GallonsAveragePercentage ofConsumed(2)Cost(2)(3)Price PerTotal OperatingYear(Millions)(Millions)Gallon(2)(3)Expense(2)20103,823$8,901$2.3330%20093,853$8,291$2.1529%2008(1)2,740$8,686$3.1638%(4)



(1)Includes operations of Northwest Airlines, Inc. (“NWA”) for the period from October 30 to December 31,
2008.(2)Includes the operations of our contract carriers under capacity purchase agreements.(3)Net of fuel hedge losses under our fuel hedging program of $89 million, $1.4 billion
and $65 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.(4)Total operating expense for 2008 reflects a $7.3 billion non-cash charge from an
impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and $1.1 billion in primarily non-cash
merger-related charges. Including these charges, fuel costs accounted for 28% of total
operating expense.

Our aircraft fuel purchase contracts do not provide material protection against price
increases or assure the availability of our fuel supplies. We purchase most of our aircraft fuel
under contracts that establish the price based on various market indices. We also purchase aircraft
fuel on the spot market, from off-shore sources and under contracts that permit the refiners to set
the price.

We use derivative instruments, which generally consist of crude oil, heating oil and jet fuel
swap, collar and call option contracts, in an effort to manage our exposure to changes in aircraft
fuel prices.

We are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, but it is impossible to
predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. Weather-related events, natural
disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in government
policy concerning aircraft fuel production, transportation or marketing, changes in aircraft fuel
production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel
supply shortages and fuel price increases in the future.



Competition

We face significant competition with respect to routes, services and fares. Our domestic
routes are subject to competition from both new and established carriers, some of which have lower
costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. In particular, we
face significant competition at our domestic hub airports in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis,
Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York-JFK and Salt Lake City either directly at those airports or at the
hubs of other airlines that are located in close proximity to our hubs. We also face competition in
smaller to medium-sized markets from regional jet operators. Our ability to compete effectively
depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure. If we cannot maintain
our costs at a competitive level, then our business, financial condition and operating results
could be materially adversely affected.





Our international routes are subject to competition from both domestic and foreign carriers.
Through alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements with foreign carriers, U.S.
carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as services to and
beyond traditional European and Asian gateway cities. Similarly, foreign carriers have obtained
increased access to interior U.S. passenger traffic beyond traditional U.S. gateway cities through
these relationships. In particular, alliances formed by domestic and foreign carriers, including
the Star Alliance (among United Air Lines, Continental Airlines, Lufthansa German Airlines, Air
Canada and others) and the oneworld alliance (among American Airlines, British Airways, Qantas and
others) have significantly increased competition in international markets. The adoption of
liberalized Open Skies Aviation Agreements with an increasing number of countries around the world,
including in particular the Open Skies Treaties with the Member States of the European Union and
Japan, could significantly increase competition among carriers serving those markets.

Several joint ventures among U.S. and foreign carriers, including our transatlantic joint
venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia, have received grants of antitrust immunity allowing the
participating carriers to coordinate schedules, pricing, sales and inventory. Other joint ventures
that have received anti-trust immunity include a transatlantic alliance among United, Continental,
Air Canada and Lufthansa, a transpacific joint venture among United, Continental and All Nippon
Airways, a transatlantic joint venture among American, British Airways and Iberia, and a
transpacific joint venture between American and Japan Air Lines.

Consolidation
in the airline industry and changes in international alliances have
altered and will
continue to alter the competitive landscape in the industry by resulting in the formation of
airlines and alliances with increased financial resources, more extensive global networks and
altered cost structures.



Regulatory Matters

The DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) exercise regulatory authority over
air transportation in the U.S. The DOT has authority to issue certificates of public convenience
and necessity required for airlines to provide domestic air transportation. An air carrier that the
DOT finds fit to operate is given authority to operate domestic and international air transportation
(including the carriage of passengers and cargo). Except for constraints imposed by regulations
regarding “Essential Air Services,” which are applicable to certain small communities, airlines may
terminate service to a city without restriction.

The DOT has jurisdiction over certain economic and consumer protection matters, such as unfair
or deceptive practices and methods of competition, advertising, denied boarding compensation,
baggage liability and disabled passenger transportation. The DOT also has authority to review
certain joint venture agreements between major carriers and  engages in regulation of economic matters such as slot transactions. The FAA has primary responsibility for
matters relating to the safety of  air carrier flight operations, including airline operating certificates,
control of navigable air space, flight personnel, aircraft certification and maintenance and other
matters affecting air safety.

Authority to operate international routes and international codesharing arrangements is
regulated by the DOT and by the governments of the foreign countries involved. International
certificate authorities are also subject to the approval of the U.S. President for conformance with
national defense and foreign policy objectives.

The Transportation Security Administration and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, each a
division of the Department of Homeland Security, are responsible for certain civil aviation
security matters, including passenger and baggage screening at U.S. airports and international
passenger prescreening prior to entry into or departure from the U.S.

Airlines are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and
regulations. For example, the U.S. Department of Justice has jurisdiction over airline competition
matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail.
Labor relations in the airline industry, as discussed below, are generally governed by the Railway
Labor Act. Environmental matters are regulated by various federal, state, local and foreign
governmental entities. Privacy of passenger and employee data is regulated by domestic and foreign
laws and regulations.





Fares and Rates

Airlines set ticket prices in all domestic and most international city pairs with minimal governmental regulation, and the industry is characterized by significant price competition.
Certain international fares and rates are subject to the jurisdiction of the DOT and the
governments of the foreign countries involved. Many of our tickets are sold by travel agents, and
fares are subject to commissions, overrides and discounts paid to travel agents, brokers and
wholesalers.

Route Authority

Our flight operations are authorized by certificates of public convenience and necessity and
also by exemptions and limited-entry frequency awards issued by the DOT. The requisite approvals of
other governments for international operations are controlled by bilateral agreements (and a multi-lateral agreement in the case of the U.S. and the European Union) with, or
permits or approvals issued by, foreign countries. Because international air transportation is
governed by bilateral or other agreements between the U.S. and the foreign country or countries
involved, changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or
termination of such agreements, diminish the value of our international route authorities or
otherwise affect our international operations. Bilateral agreements between the U.S. and various
foreign countries served by us are subject to renegotiation from time to time.

Certain of our international route authorities are subject to periodic renewal requirements.
We request extension of these authorities when and as appropriate. While the DOT usually renews
temporary authorities on routes where the authorized carrier is providing a reasonable level of
service, there is no assurance this practice will continue in general or with respect to a specific
renewal. Dormant route authorities may not be renewed in some cases, especially where another U.S.
carrier indicates a willingness to provide service.

Airport Access

Operations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by us are
regulated by governmental entities through allocations of “slots” or similar regulatory mechanisms
which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents
the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time
period.

In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of slots, slot exemptions, operating
authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at Reagan National in Washington, D.C.
and LaGuardia, John F. Kennedy International Airport (“JFK”) and Newark in the New York City area.
Our operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or analogous regulatory
authorities. Similarly, our operations at Tokyo’s Narita Airport, London’s Gatwick and Heathrow
airports and other international airports are regulated by local slot coordinators pursuant to the
International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law.
We are beginning operations at Tokyo’s Haneda Airport, which is also regulated, in February 2011.
We currently have sufficient slots or analogous authorizations to operate our existing flights, and
we have generally been able to obtain the rights to expand our operations and to change our
schedules. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so in the future because,
among other reasons, such allocations are subject to changes in governmental policies.

Environmental Matters

Noise. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 recognizes the rights of operators of
airports with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as such programs
do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air
transportation system. This statute generally provides that local noise restrictions on Stage 3
aircraft first effective after October 1, 1990, require FAA approval. While we have had sufficient
scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions in the past, our operations could be
adversely impacted if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.

Emissions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) is authorized to regulate
aircraft emissions and has historically implemented emissions control standards previously adopted
by the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”). Our aircraft comply with the existing
EPA standards as applicable by engine design date. ICAO has adopted additional aircraft engine
emissions standards applicable to engines certified after December 31, 2007, but the EPA has not
yet proposed a rule that incorporates these new ICAO standards.





Concern about aviation environmental issues, including climate change and greenhouse gases,
has led to taxes on our operations in the United Kingdom and in Germany, both of which have levied
taxes directly on our customers. We may face additional regulation of aircraft emissions in the
United States and abroad and become subject to further taxes, charges or additional requirements
to obtain permits or purchase allowances or emission credits for greenhouse gas emissions in
various jurisdictions. This could result in taxation or permitting requirements from multiple
jurisdictions for the same operations. Ongoing bilateral discussions between the United States and
other nations as well as discussions at the ICAO Assembly and Conference of the Parties, most
recently in Cancun in December 2010, may lead to international treaties or other actions focusing
on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from aviation.

The European Union has required its member states to implement regulations including aviation
in its Emissions Trading Scheme (“ETS”). Under these regulations, any airline with flights
originating or landing in the European Union will be subject to the ETS and, beginning in 2012, may
be required to purchase emissions allowances if the airline exceeds the number of free allowances
allocated to it under the ETS. We expect that such a system would impose significant costs on our
operations in the European Union. The Air Transport Association and several U.S. carriers have filed
an action in the United Kingdom challenging the legality of the ETS on various grounds. This case
has been referred to the European Court of Justice for adjudication. Airlines will, however, be
required to comply with the ETS unless interim relief is granted.

Cap and trade restrictions have also been proposed in the United States. In addition, other
legislative or regulatory action, including by the EPA, to regulate greenhouse gas emissions is
possible. In particular, the EPA has found that greenhouse gases threaten the public health and
welfare, which could result in regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. In the event
that legislation or regulation is enacted in the U.S. or in the event similar legislation or
regulation is enacted in jurisdictions other than the European Union where we operate or where we
may operate in the future, it could result in significant costs for us and the airline industry. We
are monitoring and evaluating the potential impact of such legislative and regulatory developments.
In addition to direct costs, such regulation may have a greater effect on the airline industry
through increases in fuel costs that could result from fuel suppliers passing on increased costs
that they incur under such a system.

We seek to minimize the impact of carbon emissions from our operations through reductions in
our fuel consumption and other efforts. We have reduced the fuel needs of our aircraft fleet
through the retirement and replacement of certain elements of our fleet and with newer, more fuel
efficient aircraft. In addition, we have implemented fuel saving procedures in our flight and
ground support operations that further reduce carbon emissions. We are also supporting efforts to
develop alternative fuels and efforts to modernize the air traffic control system in the U.S., as
part of our efforts to reduce our emissions and minimize our impact on the environment.

Other Environmental Matters. We have been identified by the EPA as a potentially responsible
party (a “PRP”) with respect to certain Superfund Sites, and have entered into consent decrees
regarding some of these sites. Our alleged disposal volume at each of these sites is small when
compared to the total contributions of all PRPs at each site. We are aware of soil and/or ground
water contamination present on our current or former leaseholds at several domestic airports. To
address this contamination, we have a program in place to investigate and, if appropriate,
remediate these sites. Although the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with
certainty, management believes that the resolution of these matters will not have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.

We are also subject to various other federal, state and local laws governing environmental
matters, including the management and disposal of chemicals, waste and hazardous materials,
protection of surface and subsurface waters and regulation of air emissions and drinking water.

Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program

We participate in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program (the “CRAF Program”), which permits the
U.S. military to use the aircraft and crew resources of participating U.S. airlines during airlift
emergencies, national emergencies or times of war. We have agreed to make available under the CRAF
Program a portion of our international long-range aircraft during the contract period ending September 30,
2011.





As of January 1, 2011, the following numbers of our international long-range aircraft were
available for CRAF activation:

Number ofDescription ofInternationalAeromedicalTotalEvent Leading toPassengerAircraftAircraft byStageActivationAircraft AllocatedAllocatedStageIMinor Crisis5N/A5IIMajor Theater Conflict232144IIITotal National Mobilization593392

We have also committed 75 aircraft to international short-range requirements. The CRAF
Program has only been activated twice, both times at the Stage I level, since it was created in
1951.



Employee Matters

Railway Labor Act

Our relations with labor unions in the U.S. are governed by the Railway Labor Act. Under the
Railway Labor Act, a labor union seeking to represent an unrepresented craft or class of employees
is required to file with the National Mediation Board (the “NMB”) an application alleging a
representation dispute, along with authorization cards signed by at least 35% of the employees in
that craft or class. The NMB then investigates the dispute and, if it finds the labor union has
obtained a sufficient number of authorization cards, conducts an election to determine whether to
certify the labor union as the collective bargaining representative of that craft or class. Under
new voting rules implemented by the NMB on July 1, 2010, a labor union will be certified as the
representative of the employees in a craft or class if more than 50% of votes cast are for that
union. A certified labor union would commence negotiations toward a collective bargaining agreement
with the employer.

Under the Railway Labor Act, a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a labor
union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. Either party may request
that the NMB appoint a federal mediator to participate in the negotiations for a new or amended
agreement. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB may determine, at any time, that an
impasse exists and offer binding arbitration. If either party rejects binding arbitration, a 30-day
“cooling off” period begins. At the end of this 30-day period, the parties may engage in “self
help,” unless the U.S. President appoints a Presidential Emergency Board (“PEB”) to investigate and
report on the dispute. The appointment of a PEB maintains the “status quo” for an additional 60
days. If the parties do not reach agreement during this period, the parties may then engage in
“self help.” “Self help” includes, among other things, a strike by the union or the imposition of
proposed changes to the collective bargaining agreement by the airline. Congress and the President
have the authority to prevent “self help” by enacting legislation that, among other things, imposes
a settlement on the parties.

Collective Bargaining

As
of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 80,000 full-time equivalent employees. Approximately 17% of
these employees were represented by unions, including the following domestic employee groups.

ApproximateNumber of ActiveDate on which CollectiveEmployeesBargaining AgreementEmployee GroupRepresentedUnionBecomes AmendableDelta Pilots10,900ALPADecember 31, 2012Delta Flight Superintendents (Dispatchers)350PAFCADecember 31, 2013Comair Pilots1,100ALPAMarch 2, 2011Comair Maintenance Employees350IAMDecember 31, 2010Comair Flight Attendants700IBTDecember 31, 2010

Labor unions periodically engage in organizing efforts to represent various groups of our
employees, including at our airline subsidiary, that are not represented for collective bargaining
purposes.





Completion of Merger Integration

Integration of a number of the workgroups following our merger with NWA (including pilots, aircraft
maintenance technicians, dispatchers, meteorologists, simulator technicians, and office and clerical staff) has been completed. As discussed below, completion of the
integration of certain workgroups (including flight attendants, airport employees and reservations
employees) will require the final resolution of representation issues. We cannot predict when these
representation issues will be finally resolved.

Under procedures that have been utilized by the NMB, each labor union that represented
U.S.-based employees at pre-merger Delta or NWA, as well as other groups of employees with a
sufficient showing of interest, may invoke the NMB’s jurisdiction to address representation issues
arising from the merger. Once its jurisdiction is invoked, the NMB’s rules call for it to first
determine whether the airlines have combined or will combine to form a single carrier. On January
7, 2009, the NMB first ruled that Delta and NWA constitute a single transportation system for
representation purposes under the Railway Labor Act in response to applications filed by certain of
the pre-merger unions at Delta and NWA. The NMB subsequently made the same determination as the
unions filed applications to resolve post-merger representation issues in the remaining workgroups.

The NMB has utilized certain procedures to address and resolve representation issues arising
from airline mergers which generally have included the following:

•Where employees in the same craft or class at the two carriers are represented by the
same union, that union will be certified to represent the combined group, without an
election.•Where employees in the same craft or class at the two carriers have different
representation status—either they are represented by different unions or one group is
represented by a union and the other is not—the NMB’s rules provide for a representation
election among the combined employee groups if the groups are “comparable” in size. In
general, the NMB has considered two groups to be comparable in size if the smaller group is
at least 35% of the combined group. If the representation election results in the combined
group not being represented by a union, the collective bargaining agreement covering the
group that had previously been unionized will terminate.•If the two groups are not comparable in size, the smaller group will be folded into and
have the same representation status as the larger group. Even where the two groups are not
comparable in size, the smaller group can still obtain an election if, within 14 days after
the NMB’s single carrier determination with respect to that group, the smaller group
submits a showing of interest from at least 35% of the combined group. The showing of
interest can consist of authorization cards as well as the seniority list of the smaller
group, if the smaller group had been represented by a union.

Based upon these procedures, representation and related issues have been resolved in
U.S.-based workgroups represented by six of the eight labor unions at Delta and NWA pre-merger. As
noted, in 2010, the NMB changed the voting rules for representation elections in the airline
industry to provide that a majority of votes cast (rather than a majority of votes eligible to be
cast) is necessary to certify a union to represent a craft or class of employees. Following the
change in voting rules, the NMB authorized and conducted elections sought by the two remaining
pre-merger NWA unions, the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (“AFA”), which represented flight
attendants at pre-merger NWA, and the International Association of Machinists (“IAM”), which
represented various categories of ground employees at pre-merger NWA. The employee groups, the
union seeking representation and the approximate number of employees in each workgroup prior to the
election is set forth in the table below:

Approximate Numberof EmployeesUnion Seeking(as of June 30,Employee GroupRepresentation2010)Flight AttendantsAFA20,100Fleet Service(1)IAM14,100Stores Employees(2)IAM700Passenger Service(3)IAM16,400

(1)Includes below-wing airport customer service employees, cargo
warehouse employees and related positions(2)Includes technical operations supply attendants, stock clerks and
stores utility employees(3)Includes above-wing airport customer service agents, cargo sales
agents and passenger reservations sales agents





In each case, the employee groups rejected representation by the unions and the unions
have filed claims with the NMB alleging that Delta interfered with the elections. While we are
vigorously challenging the interference claims, we cannot predict when or how these matters will be
resolved for these workgroups. However, based on the election results, the NMB terminated the pre-merger
certifications of the unions to represent employees in those groups.  As a result, matters that were tied to
union representation, such as mandatory union dues check off, shop steward and similar positions, and union
committees and offices have also terminated.

If a labor union is certified to represent a combined group post-merger, the terms and
conditions of employment of the combined work group ultimately will be subject to negotiations
toward a joint collective bargaining agreement. Completing joint collective bargaining agreements
covering combined work groups that choose to be represented by a labor union could take significant
time, which could delay or impede our ability to achieve targeted synergies from the merger.

With respect to integration of seniority lists, where the two employee groups in a craft or
class have different representation status, federal law requires that seniority integration be
governed by the procedures first issued by the Civil Aeronautics Board in the Allegheny-Mohawk
merger—known as the Allegheny-Mohawk Labor Protective Provisions. In general, Allegheny-Mohawk
Labor Protective Provisions require that seniority be integrated in a “fair and equitable” manner
and that any disputes not resolved by negotiations may be submitted to binding arbitration by a
neutral arbitrator. This requirement is consistent with the seniority protection policy that has
been adopted by the Delta board of directors. Where both groups are represented by the same union
prior to the merger, seniority integration is governed by the union’s bylaws and policies. The
integration of the seniority lists of the pilots of Delta and NWA as well as flight dispatchers,
meteorologists and aircraft maintenance technicians and related Technical Operations employees has
been resolved.



Executive Officers

Richard H. Anderson, Age 55: Chief Executive Officer of Delta since September 1, 2007;
Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of its Commercial Services Group
(December 2006—August 2007); Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group (November
2004—December 2006); Chief Executive Officer of Northwest Airlines Corporation (“Northwest”) (2001—November
2004).

Edward H. Bastian, Age 53: President of Delta since September 1, 2007; President of Delta and
Chief Executive Officer NWA (October 2008—December 2009); President and Chief Financial Officer of
Delta (September 2007—October 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta
(July 2005—September 2007); Chief Financial Officer, Acuity Brands (June 2005—July 2005); Senior
Vice President—Finance and Controller of Delta (2000—April 2005); Vice President and Controller
of Delta (1998—2000).

Michael H. Campbell, Age 62: Executive Vice President—HR & Labor Relations of Delta since
October 2008; Executive Vice President—HR, Labor & Communications of Delta (December 2007—October
2008); Executive Vice President—Human Resources and Labor Relations of Delta (July 2006—December
2007); Of Counsel, Ford & Harrison (January 2005—July 2006); Senior Vice President—Human
Resources and Labor Relations, Continental Airlines, Inc. (1997—2004); Partner, Ford & Harrison
(1978—1996).

Stephen E. Gorman, Age 55: Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Delta since
October 2008; Executive Vice President—Operations of Delta (December 2007-October 2008); President
and Chief Executive Officer of Greyhound Lines, Inc. (June 2003—October 2007); President, North
America and Executive Vice President Operations Support at Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Inc. (August
2001—June 2003); Executive Vice President, Technical Operations and Flight Operations of Northwest
(February 2001—August 2001), Senior Vice President, Technical Operations of Northwest (January
1999—February 2001), and Vice President, Engine Maintenance Operations of Northwest (April
1996—January 1999).

Glen W. Hauenstein, Age 50: Executive Vice President—Network Planning and Revenue Management
of Delta since April 2006; Executive Vice President and Chief of Network and Revenue Management of
Delta (August 2005—April 2006); Vice General Director—Chief Commercial Officer and Chief
Operating Officer of Alitalia (2003—2005); Senior Vice President—Network of Continental Airlines
(2003); Senior Vice President—Scheduling of Continental Airlines (2001— 2003); Vice President
Scheduling of Continental Airlines (1998—2001).





Hank Halter, Age 45: Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta since October
2008; Senior Vice President—Finance and Controller of Delta (May 2005—October 2008); Vice
President—Controller of Delta (March 2005—May 2005); Vice President—Assistant Controller of
Delta (January 2002—March 2005); and Vice President—Finance—Operations of Delta (February
2000—December 2001); various finance leadership positions at Delta and American Airlines, Inc.
(June 1993—February 2000).

Richard B. Hirst, Age 66: Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Delta since October
2008; Senior Vice President—Corporate Affairs and General Counsel of Northwest (March 2008—
October 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of KB Home (March 2004— November
2006); Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Burger King Corporation (March 2001—June
2003); General Counsel of the Minnesota Twins (1999—2000); Senior Vice President—Corporate
Affairs of Northwest (1994—1999); Senior Vice President—General Counsel of Northwest
(1990—1994); Vice President—General Counsel and Secretary of Continental Airlines (1986—1990).



Additional Information

We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after these reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or our
other securities filings and is not a part of those filings.



