ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General

We
provide scheduled air transportation for passengers and
cargo throughout the United States and around the world. In
October 2008, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours merged with and into Northwest Airlines
Corporation (“Northwest”). As a result of this merger,  Northwest and its subsidiaries, including Northwest Airlines, Inc.
(“NWA”), became our wholly-owned subsidiaries. On December 31, 2009,
NWA merged with and into Delta, ending NWA’s existence as a separate entity. We anticipate that we
will complete the integration of NWA’s operations into Delta during 2010.

We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices
are located at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta, Georgia (the “Atlanta
Airport”). Our telephone number is (404) 715-2600 and our Internet address is www.delta.com.
Information contained on this website is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference in, this
Form 10-K.

Financial
Strategies

Complete the integration of Northwest. We believe the Northwest merger better positions us to
manage through economic cycles and volatile fuel prices, invest in our fleet, improve services for
customers and achieve our strategic objectives. We also believe the merger will generate approximately
$2 billion in annual revenue and cost synergies by 2012 from more effective aircraft utilization, a
more comprehensive and diversified route system and  reduced overhead and improved
operational efficiency.

Right-size our operations.In response to the global recession and high fuel prices, we
reduced domestic and international capacity to better match capacity with demand. We have focused
on removing the associated capacity-related costs, including aircraft fleet and staffing. To reduce
fleet costs, we removed 18 mainline passenger aircraft from the fleet during 2009, retired our
entire fleet of B-747-200F freighter aircraft during 2009 and plan to remove over 30 regional jets
from our network beginning in mid-2009 and continuing through early 2011. We have reduced staffing
primarily through voluntary reduction programs as well as normal attrition. At December 31, 2009,
our total workforce was 4% lower than the combined workforce of Delta and NWA at December 31, 2008.

Improve
our operating margins.We believe that the scope  of our network, combined with
investments we are making in our product and customer service, will enable us to generate a unit
revenue premium to the industry and that our cost structure allows us to generate highly
competitive unit costs, both of which provide the tools to improve our operating margins. By
strengthening our network, entering into joint ventures and expanding
our alliances, we believe we
are better able to improve unit revenues. And while our consolidated non-fuel unit costs are the
lowest among the major network carriers, we have additional improvement opportunities as we reduce
costs associated with right-sizing our business, increase productivity and realize merger
synergies.

Strengthen our balance sheet.We currently, and will continue to, prudently manage costs and
free cash flow to conserve liquidity. We finished 2009 with $5.4 billion in unrestricted liquidity
(consisting of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and undrawn revolving credit facility
capacity). We have no immediate need for significant aircraft purchases and currently have limited
aircraft capital expenditures planned for the next three years. We will continue to focus on cost
discipline and cash flow generation toward our goal of further strengthening our balance sheet.

Flight Plan

Providing
a safe, secure operation is our first and most fundamental obligation
to our customers and employees, as well as to the communities we
serve. The key goals of our 2010 flight plan include (1) positioning
Delta as the global airline of choice, (2) enhancing our customer
service, (3) promoting positive employee relations, (4)
building a diversified, profitable worldwide network and global
alliance and (5) delivering industry-leading financial results.







Airline Operations

Our global route network gives us a presence in every major domestic and international
market. Our route network is centered around the hub system we operate at airports in Atlanta,
Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis/St. Paul, New York-JFK, Salt Lake City, Paris-Charles de
Gaulle, Amsterdam and Tokyo-Narita. Each of these hub operations includes flights that gather and
distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region surrounding the hub to domestic and
international cities and to other hubs. Our network is supported by a fleet of aircraft that is
varied in terms of size and capabilities, giving us flexibility to adjust aircraft to the network.

Expanding
our presence in New York City through increased focus on  corporate
customers, expanded and improved airport facilities
and increased and expanded  service into and out of New York City is a key component of our network strategy. For
example, we continue to make investments in our international
operations at New York-JFK and explore
long-term options to upgrade the facility. In addition, in August 2009, we announced our intention
to make New York’s LaGuardia Airport a domestic hub through a slot transaction with US Airways. The
agreement calls for US Airways to transfer 125 operating slot pairs to us at LaGuardia and for us
to transfer 42 operating slot pairs to US Airways at Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C. We
also plan to swap gates at LaGuardia to consolidate all of our operations (including the Delta
Shuttle) into an expanded main terminal facility with 11 additional
gates. The United States Department of
Transportation (“DOT”) has issued a tentative order on the transaction that would require the
divestiture of 20 slot pairs at LaGuardia and 14 slot pairs at Reagan National.  We and US Airways are
reviewing the tentative order to determine our next steps.

Other key characteristics of our route network include:

•our alliances with foreign airlines, including our membership in SkyTeam, a
global airline alliance;•our transatlantic joint venture with Air France KLM;•our domestic alliances, including our marketing alliance with Alaska Airlines
and Horizon Air, which we are enhancing to expand our west coast service; and•agreements with multiple domestic regional carriers, which operate as Delta
Connection, including our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Comair, Inc., Compass Airlines, Inc.
and Mesaba Aviation, Inc.

International Alliances

We have bilateral and multilateral marketing alliances with foreign airlines to improve our
access to international markets. These arrangements can include codesharing, reciprocal frequent
flyer program benefits, shared or reciprocal access to passenger lounges, joint promotions, common
use of airport gates and ticket counters, ticket office co-location and other marketing agreements.
These alliances often present opportunities in other areas, such as airport ground handling
arrangements and aircraft maintenance insourcing.

Our international codesharing agreements enable us to market and sell seats to an expanded
number of international destinations. Under international codesharing arrangements, we and a
foreign carrier each publish our respective airline designator codes on a single flight operation,
thereby allowing us and the foreign carrier to offer joint service with one aircraft, rather than
operating separate services with two aircraft. These arrangements typically allow us to sell seats
on a foreign carrier’s aircraft that are marketed under our designator code and permit the foreign
airline to sell seats on our aircraft that are marketed under the foreign carrier’s designator
code.

We have international codeshare arrangements with Aeromexico, Air France, Alitalia, Avianca,
China Airlines, China Southern, CSA Czech Airlines, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, Korean Air, Malev
Hungarian Airlines, Royal Air Maroc and Virgin Blue (and some affiliated carriers operating in
conjunction with some of these airlines).





SkyTeam. In addition to our marketing alliance agreements with individual foreign airlines, we
are a member of the SkyTeam global airline alliance. The other full members of SkyTeam are
Aeroflot, Aeromexico, Air France, Alitalia, China Southern, CSA Czech Airlines, KLM and Korean Air.
One goal of SkyTeam is to link the route networks of the member airlines, providing opportunities
for increased connecting traffic while offering enhanced customer service through mutual
codesharing arrangements, reciprocal frequent flyer and lounge programs and coordinated cargo
operations.

We have received antitrust immunity from the DOT that
enables us and our immunized alliance partners (Air France KLM, Alitalia, CSA Czech Airlines and Korean Air) to offer a more
integrated route network and develop common sales, marketing and discount programs for customers.
In July 2009, Delta and Virgin Blue International Airlines (VAustralia),
Virgin Blue Airlines, Pacific Blue Airlines (Australia) and Pacific Blue Airlines (New Zealand)
filed an application with the DOT for antitrust immunity.

Air France KLM joint venture. In addition to being members in SkyTeam with Air France and KLM,
both of which are subsidiaries of the same holding company, we have a transatlantic joint venture
agreement with Air France and KLM. This agreement provides for the sharing of revenues and costs on
transatlantic routes, as well as coordinated pricing, scheduling, and product development on
included routes. Pursuant to this joint venture, we and Air France KLM operate an extensive
transatlantic network, primarily on routes between North America and Europe, and secondarily on
routes between North America and Africa, the Middle East and India, and routes between Europe and
Central America and several countries in northern South America.

Domestic Alliances

We have entered into a marketing alliance with Alaska and Horizon, which includes mutual
codesharing and reciprocal frequent flyer and airport lounge access arrangements. In 2009, we
enhanced our alliance agreement with Alaska and Horizon to provide for more extensive cooperation
with respect to our west coast presence.

We also have frequent flyer and reciprocal lounge agreements with Hawaiian Airlines, and
codesharing agreements with American Eagle Airlines (“American Eagle”), US Helicopter and Midwest
Airlines. These marketing relationships are designed to permit the carriers to retain their
separate identities and route networks while increasing the number of domestic and international
connecting passengers using the carriers’ route networks.

Regional Carriers

We have air service agreements with multiple domestic regional air carriers that feed traffic
to our route system by serving passengers primarily in small-and medium-sized cities. These
arrangements enable us to increase the number of flights we have available in certain locations, to
better match capacity with demand and to preserve our presence in smaller markets. Approximately
22% of our passenger revenue in 2009 related to flying by regional air carriers.

Through our regional carrier program, we have contractual arrangements with 10 regional
carriers to operate regional jet and, in certain cases, turbo-prop aircraft using our “DL”
designator code. In addition to our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Comair, Compass and Mesaba, we have
contractual arrangements with Atlantic Southeast Airlines, Inc., a subsidiary of SkyWest, Inc.
(“SkyWest”); SkyWest Airlines, Inc., a subsidiary of SkyWest; Chautauqua Airlines, Inc., a
subsidiary of Republic Airways Holdings, Inc. (“Republic Holdings”); Shuttle America Corporation, a
subsidiary of Republic Holdings; Freedom Airlines, Inc., a subsidiary of Mesa Air Group, Inc.;
Pinnacle Airlines, Inc.; and American Eagle.

With the exception of American Eagle and a portion of SkyWest Airlines as described below,
these agreements are capacity purchase arrangements, under which we control the scheduling,
pricing, reservations, ticketing and seat inventories for the regional carriers’ flights operating
under our “DL” designator code, and we are entitled to all ticket, cargo and mail revenues
associated with these flights. We pay those airlines an amount, as defined in the applicable
agreement, which is based on a determination of their cost of operating those flights and other
factors intended to approximate market rates for those services. These capacity purchase agreements
are long-term agreements, usually with initial terms of at least 10 years, which grant us the
option to extend the initial term. Certain of these agreements provide us the right to terminate
the entire agreement, or in some cases remove some of the aircraft from the scope of the agreement,
for convenience at certain future dates.





Our arrangements with American Eagle, limited to certain flights operated to and from the Los
Angeles International Airport, as well as a portion of the flights operated for us by SkyWest
Airlines, are structured as revenue proration agreements. These proration agreements establish a
fixed dollar or percentage division of revenues for tickets sold to passengers traveling on
connecting flight itineraries.



Frequent Flyer Program

Our SkyMiles® frequent flyer program is designed to retain and increase traveler loyalty by
offering incentives to customers to increase travel on Delta. The SkyMiles program allows program
members to earn mileage for travel awards by flying on Delta, Delta’s regional carriers and other
participating airlines. Mileage credit may also be earned by using certain services offered by
program participants, such as credit card companies, hotels, car rental agencies, and
telecommunication services. In addition, individuals and companies may purchase mileage credits. We
reserve the right to terminate the program with six months advance notice, and to change the
program’s terms and conditions at any time without notice.

SkyMiles program mileage credits can be redeemed for free or upgraded air travel on Delta and
participating airlines, for membership in our Delta Sky Clubs® and for other program participant
awards. Mileage credits are subject to certain transfer restrictions and travel awards are subject
to capacity-controlled seating. Program accounts with no activity for 12 consecutive months after
enrollment are deleted. Miles will not expire so long as, at least once every two years, the
participant (1) takes a qualifying flight on Delta, a Delta Connection carrier or other
participating airlines, (2) earns miles through one of our program participants, (3) buys miles
from Delta or (4) redeems miles for any program award.



Cargo

Through
the strength of our global network, our cargo operations are able to connect all of the world’s major freight
gateways. We generate cargo revenues in domestic and international markets primarily through the
use of cargo space on regularly scheduled passenger aircraft. We are a member of SkyTeam Cargo, a global airline cargo alliance.
The alliance, whose other members are Aeromexico Cargo, Air France Cargo, Alitalia Cargo, CSA Czech
Airlines Cargo, KLM Cargo and Korean Air Cargo, offers a global
network spanning six continents. This
alliance offers cargo customers a consistent international product line, and the partners work to
jointly improve their efficiency and effectiveness in the marketplace.



MRO

Our maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”) operations known as Delta TechOps is the largest
airline MRO in North America. In addition to providing
maintenance and engineering support for our fleet of approximately 800 aircraft, Delta TechOps serves more
than 150 aviation and airline customers from around the world. Delta TechOps employs approximately
8,800 maintenance professionals and is one of the most experienced MRO providers in the world.



Fuel

Our results of operations are significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability
of aircraft fuel. The following table shows our aircraft fuel consumption and costs for 2007
through 2009.

GallonsAveragePercentage ofConsumed(3)Cost(3)(4)Price PerTotal OperatingYear(Millions)(Millions)Gallon(3)(4)Expense(3)2009(1)3,853$8,291$2.1529%2008(2)2,740$8,686$3.1638%(5)20072,534$5,676$2.2431%

(1)Includes Northwest operations for the entire period.(2)Includes Northwest operations for the period from October 30 to December 31, 2008.(3)Includes the operations of our contract carriers under capacity
purchase agreements.(4)Net of fuel hedge (losses) gains under our fuel hedging
program of $(1.4) billion,
$(65) million and $51 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.(5)Total operating expense for 2008 reflects a $7.3 billion non-cash charge from an
impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and $1.1 billion in primarily non-cash
merger-related charges. Including these charges, fuel costs accounted for 28% of total
operating expense.





Our aircraft fuel purchase contracts do not provide material protection against price
increases or assure the availability of our fuel supplies. We purchase most of our aircraft fuel
under contracts that establish the price based on various market indices. We also purchase aircraft
fuel on the spot market, from off-shore sources and under contracts that permit the refiners to set
the price.

We use derivative instruments, which are comprised of crude oil, heating oil and jet fuel
swap, collar and call option contracts, in an effort to manage our exposure to changes in aircraft
fuel prices.

We are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, but it is impossible to
predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. Weather-related events, natural
disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in government
policy concerning aircraft fuel production, transportation or marketing, changes in aircraft fuel
production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel
supply shortages and fuel price increases in the future.



Competition

We face significant competition with respect to routes, services and fares. Our domestic
routes are subject to competition from both new and existing carriers, some of which have lower
costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. In particular, we
face significant competition at our hub airports in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis,
Minneapolis/St. Paul, New York-JFK, Salt Lake City, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Amsterdam and
Tokyo-Narita either directly at those airports or from the hubs of other airlines that compete on a
connecting basis. We also face competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from regional jet
operators. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in significant part, on our ability to
maintain a cost structure that is competitive with other carriers.

In addition, we compete with foreign carriers for U.S. passengers traveling to international
destinations, as well as between foreign points. International marketing alliances formed by
domestic and foreign carriers, including the Star Alliance (among United Air Lines, Continental
Airlines, Lufthansa German Airlines, Air Canada and others) and the oneworld alliance (among
American Airlines, British Airways, Qantas and others) have significantly increased competition in
international markets. The adoption of liberalized Open Skies Aviation Agreements with an
increasing number of countries around the world, including in particular the Open Skies Treaty with
the Member States of the European Union, has accelerated this trend. Japan has reached agreement
in principle with the United States on an open skies agreement, contingent upon the successful
completion of DOT alliance approval for its carriers. Through marketing and codesharing
arrangements with U.S. carriers, foreign carriers have obtained increased access to interior U.S.
passenger traffic beyond traditional U.S. gateway cities. Similarly, U.S. carriers have increased
their ability to sell international transportation, such as services to and beyond traditional
European and Asian gateway cities, through alliances with international carriers.



Regulatory Matters

The DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) exercise regulatory authority over air transportation in the U.S. The DOT
has authority to issue certificates of public convenience and necessity required for airlines to
provide domestic air transportation. An air carrier that the DOT finds fit to operate is given
unrestricted authority to operate domestic air transportation (including the carriage of passengers
and cargo). Except for constraints imposed by regulations regarding “Essential Air Services,” which
are applicable to certain small communities, airlines may terminate service to a city without
restriction.

The DOT has jurisdiction over certain economic and consumer protection matters, such as unfair
or deceptive practices and methods of competition, advertising, denied boarding compensation,
baggage liability and disabled passenger transportation. The DOT also has authority to review
certain joint venture agreements between major carriers. The FAA has primary responsibility for
matters relating to air carrier flight operations, including airline operating certificates,
control of navigable air space, flight personnel, aircraft certification and maintenance and other
matters affecting air safety.

Authority to operate international routes and international codesharing arrangements is
regulated by the DOT and by the governments of the foreign countries involved. International
certificate authorities are also subject to the approval of the U.S. President for conformance with
national defense and foreign policy objectives.





The Transportation Security Administration and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, each a
division of the Department of Homeland Security, are responsible for certain civil aviation
security matters, including passenger and baggage screening at U.S. airports and international
passenger prescreening prior to entry into or departure from the U.S.

Airlines are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and
regulations. For example, the U.S. Department of Justice has jurisdiction over airline competition
matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail.
Labor relations in the airline industry, as discussed below, are generally governed by the Railway
Labor Act. Environmental matters are regulated by various federal, state, local and foreign
governmental entities. Privacy of passenger and employee data is regulated by domestic and foreign
laws and regulations.

Fares and Rates

Airlines set ticket prices in all domestic and most international city pairs without
governmental regulation, and the industry is characterized by significant price competition.
Certain international fares and rates are subject to the jurisdiction of the DOT and the
governments of the foreign countries involved. Many of our tickets are sold by travel agents, and
fares are subject to commissions, overrides and discounts paid to travel agents, brokers and
wholesalers.

Route Authority

Our flight operations are authorized by certificates of public convenience and necessity and
also by exemptions and limited-entry frequency awards issued by the DOT. The requisite approvals of
other governments for international operations are controlled by bilateral agreements with, or
permits or approvals issued by, foreign countries. Because international air transportation is
governed by bilateral or other agreements between the U.S. and the foreign country or countries
involved, changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or
termination of such agreements, diminish the value of our international route authorities or
otherwise affect our international operations. Bilateral agreements between the U.S. and various
foreign countries served by us are subject to renegotiation from time to time. Notably, the U.S.
and Japan have begun steps to revise their bilateral agreement.

Certain of our international route authorities are subject to periodic renewal requirements.
We request extension of these authorities when and as appropriate. While the DOT usually renews
temporary authorities on routes where the authorized carrier is providing a reasonable level of
service, there is no assurance this practice will continue in general or with respect to a specific
renewal. Dormant route authority may not be renewed in some cases, especially where another U.S.
carrier indicates a willingness to provide service.

Airport Access

Operations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by us are
regulated by governmental entities through allocations of “slots” or similar regulatory mechanisms
which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents
the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time
period.

In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of slots, slot exemptions, operating
authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at Reagan National in Washington, D.C.,
LaGuardia and JFK in New York, and Newark. Our operations at these airports generally require the
allocation of slots or analogous regulatory authorities. Similarly, our operations at Tokyo’s
Narita Airport, London’s Gatwick and Heathrow airports and other international airports are
regulated by local slot coordinators pursuant to the International Air Transport Association’s
Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law. We recently
filed an application with the DOT to offer customers nonstop service
between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and Seattle, Detroit, Los
Angeles and Honolulu. We currently have sufficient slots or
analogous authorizations to operate our existing flights, and we have generally been able to obtain
the rights to expand our operations and to change our schedules. There is no assurance, however,
that we will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are
subject to changes in governmental policies.





Environmental Matters

Noise. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 recognizes the rights of operators of
airports with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as such programs
do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air
transportation system. This statute generally provides that local noise restrictions on Stage 3
aircraft first effective after October 1, 1990, require FAA approval. While we have had sufficient
scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions in the past, our operations could be
adversely impacted if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.

Emissions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) is authorized to regulate
aircraft emissions and has historically implemented emissions control standards previously adopted
by the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”). Our aircraft comply with the existing
EPA standards as applicable by engine design date. ICAO has adopted additional aircraft engine
emissions standards applicable to engines certified after December 31, 2007, but the EPA has not
yet proposed a rule that incorporates these new ICAO standards.

Concern about climate change and greenhouse gases may result in additional regulation of
aircraft emissions in the U.S. and abroad. As a result, we may become subject to taxes, charges or
additional requirements to obtain permits or purchase allowances or emission credits for greenhouse
gas emissions in various jurisdictions, which could result in taxation or permitting requirements
from multiple jurisdictions for the same operations. Ongoing discussions between the United States
and other nations, including the discussions that resulted in an accord reached at the United
Nations Climate Change Conference 2009 in Copenhagen in December 2009, may lead to international
treaties focusing on greenhouse gas emissions.

The European Union has adopted the most significant emissions regulatory system by publishing
a directive requiring its member countries to implement regulations including aviation in the
European Union’s emissions trading system (“ETS”). Under these regulations, any airline with
flights originating or landing in the European Union will be subject to the ETS and, beginning in
2012, may be required to purchase emissions allowances or credits if the airline exceeds the number
of free credits allocated to it under the ETS. We expect that such a system would impose
significant costs on our operations in the European Union. Under the ETS, each airline is required
to file emissions plans with a specific member country. Prior to NWA ceasing existence as a
separate entity, we filed emissions plans in Germany (with respect to Delta) and the Netherlands
(with respect to NWA) under protest. The Air Transport Association and three U.S. carriers have
filed an action in the United Kingdom challenging the legality of the ETS on various grounds;
however, airlines will be required to comply with the ETS unless
interim relief is granted.

Cap and trade restrictions have also been proposed in the United States. In addition, other
legislative or regulatory action, including by the EPA, to regulate greenhouse gas emissions is
possible. In particular, the EPA has found that greenhouse gases threaten the public health and welfare,
which could result in regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. In the event that legislation or regulation is enacted in the U.S. or in the event
similar legislation or regulation is enacted in jurisdictions other than the European Union where
we operate or where we may operate in the future, it could result in significant costs for us and
the airline industry. At this time, we cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulation
would apportion costs between one or more jurisdictions in which we operate flights. Under these
systems, certain credits may be available to reduce the costs of permits in order to mitigate the
impact of such regulations on consumers, but we cannot predict whether we or the airline industry
in general will have access to offsets or credits. We are monitoring and evaluating the
potential impact of such legislative and regulatory developments. In addition to direct costs,
such regulation may have a greater effect on the airline industry through increases in fuel costs
that could result from fuel suppliers passing on increased costs that they incur under such a
system.

We seek to minimize the impact of carbon emissions from our operations through reductions in
our fuel consumption and other efforts. We have reduced the fuel needs of our aircraft fleet
through the retirement and replacement of certain elements of our fleet and with newer, more fuel
efficient aircraft. In addition, we have implemented fuel saving procedures in our flight and
ground support operations that further reduce carbon emissions. We are also supporting efforts to
develop alternative fuels and efforts to modernize the air traffic control system in the U.S., as
part of our efforts to reduce our emissions and minimize our impact on the environment.





Other Environmental Matters. We have been identified by the EPA as a potentially responsible
party (a “PRP”) with respect to certain Superfund Sites, and have entered into consent decrees
regarding some of these sites. Our alleged disposal volume at each of these sites is small when
compared to the total contributions of all PRPs at each site. We are aware of soil and/or ground
water contamination present on our current or former leaseholds at several domestic airports. To
address this contamination, we have a program in place to investigate and, if appropriate,
remediate these sites. Although the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with
certainty, management believes that the resolution of these matters will not have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.

We are also subject to various other federal, state and local laws governing environmental
matters, including the management and disposal of chemicals, waste and hazardous materials,
protection of surface and subsurface waters and regulation of air emissions and drinking water.

Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program

We participate in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program (the “CRAF Program”), which permits the
U.S. military to use the aircraft and crew resources of participating U.S. airlines during airlift
emergencies, national emergencies or times of war. We have agreed to make available under the CRAF
Program a portion of our international range aircraft from October 1, 2009 until September 30,
2010. As of October 1, 2009, the following numbers of our international range aircraft are
available for CRAF activation:

Number ofDescription ofInternationalAeromedicalTotalEvent Leading toPassengerAircraftAircraft byStageActivationAircraft AllocatedAllocatedStageIMinor Crisis11N/A11IIMajor Theater Conflict302555IIITotal National Mobilization13733170

The CRAF Program has only been activated twice, both times at the Stage I level, since it was
created in 1951.



Employee Matters

Railway Labor Act

Our relations with labor unions in the U.S. are governed by the Railway Labor Act. Under the
Railway Labor Act, a labor union seeking to represent an unrepresented craft or class of employees
is required to file with the National Mediation Board (the “NMB”) an application alleging a
representation dispute, along with authorization cards signed by at least 35% of the employees in
that craft or class. The NMB then investigates the dispute and, if it finds the labor union has
obtained a sufficient number of authorization cards, conducts an election to determine whether to
certify the labor union as the collective bargaining representative of that craft or class. Under
the NMB’s usual rules, a labor union will be certified as the representative of the employees in a
craft or class only if more than 50% of those employees vote for union representation. A certified
labor union then enters into negotiations toward a collective bargaining agreement with the
employer.

Under the Railway Labor Act, a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a labor
union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. Either party may request
that the NMB appoint a federal mediator to participate in the negotiations for a new or amended
agreement. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB may determine, at any time, that an
impasse exists and offer binding arbitration. If either party rejects binding arbitration, a 30-day
“cooling off” period begins. At the end of this 30-day period, the parties may engage in “self
help,” unless the U.S. President appoints a Presidential Emergency Board (“PEB”) to investigate and
report on the dispute. The appointment of a PEB maintains the “status quo” for an additional 60
days. If the parties do not reach agreement during this period, the parties may then engage in
“self help.” “Self help” includes, among other things, a strike by the union or the imposition of
proposed changes to the collective bargaining agreement by the airline. Congress and the President
have the authority to prevent “self help” by enacting legislation that, among other things, imposes
a settlement on the parties.





Collective Bargaining

As of December 31, 2009, we had 81,106 full-time equivalent employees. Approximately 39% of
these employees were represented by unions, including the following domestic employee groups.

ApproximateNumber of ActiveDate on which CollectiveEmployeesBargaining AgreementEmployee GroupRepresentedUnionBecomes AmendableDelta Pilots10,790ALPADecember 31, 2012Delta Flight Superintendents (Dispatchers)318PAFCADecember 31, 2013Pre-merger NWA Fleet Service, Passenger Service, and Office/Clerical9,407IAMDecember 31, 2010Pre-merger NWA Simulator Technicians38IAMDecember 31, 2010Pre-merger NWA Stock Clerks242IAMDecember 31, 2010Pre-merger NWA Flight Attendants5,970AFA-CWADecember 31, 2011Comair Pilots1,314ALPAMarch 2, 2011Comair Maintenance Employees400IAMDecember 31, 2010Comair Flight Attendants764IBTDecember 31, 2010Compass Pilots373ALPAApril 10, 2013Mesaba Pilots1,019ALPAJune 1, 2012Mesaba Flight Attendants623AFA-CWAMay 31, 2012Mesaba Mechanics and Related Employees353AMFAMay 31, 2012Mesaba Dispatchers28TWUMay 31, 2012

Labor unions periodically engage in organizing efforts to represent various groups of our
employees, including at our airline subsidiaries, that are not represented for collective
bargaining purposes.

Integration
of a number of the workgroups (including pilots and aircraft maintenance technicians) has been
successfully completed. Completion of the integration of certain workgroups (including flight
attendants, airport employees and reservations employees) will
require the resolution of representation issues. We cannot predict
when these representation issues will be resolved. However, as a result of our obtaining a single operating
certificate from the FAA, completing the merger of the NWA reservations system into Delta’s system, and the merger of NWA into Delta, we believe we can achieve many of the synergies
of integrating the pre-merger Northwest operations into Delta’s
before the remaining employee representation issues are resolved.

Under procedures that have been utilized by the NMB, each labor union that represented
U.S.-based employees at pre-merger Delta or NWA, as well as other groups of employees with a
sufficient showing of interest, may invoke the NMB’s jurisdiction to address representation issues
arising from the merger. Once its jurisdiction is invoked, the NMB’s rules call for it to first
determine whether the airlines have combined or will combine to form a single carrier. On January
7, 2009, the NMB ruled that Delta and NWA constitute a single transportation system for
representation purposes under the Railway Labor Act in response to applications filed by certain of
the pre-merger unions at Delta and NWA.

The NMB has utilized certain procedures to address and resolve representation issues arising
from airline mergers which generally have included the following:

•Where employees in the same craft or class at the two carriers are represented
by the same union, that union will be certified to represent the combined group, without an
election.







•Where employees in the same craft or class at the two carriers have different
representation status—either they are represented by different unions or one group is
represented by a union and the other is not—the NMB’s rules provide for a representation
election among the combined employee groups if the groups are “comparable” in size. In
general, the NMB has considered two groups to be comparable in size if the smaller group is
at least 35% of the combined group. If the representation election results in the combined
group not being represented by a union, the collective bargaining agreement covering the
group that had previously been unionized will terminate.•If the two groups are not comparable in size, the smaller group will be folded
into and have the same representation status as the larger group. Even where the two groups
are not comparable in size, the smaller group can still obtain an election if, within 14
days after the NMB’s single carrier determination with respect to that group, the smaller
group submits a showing of interest from at least 35% of the combined group. The showing of
interest can consist of authorization cards as well as the seniority list of the smaller
group, if the smaller group had been represented by a union.

Based upon these procedures, representation and related issues have been resolved in
U.S.-based workgroups represented by six of the eight labor unions at Delta and NWA pre-merger. The
NMB recently issued a formal proposal to change the voting rules for representation elections in
the airline industry to provide that a majority of votes cast (rather than a majority of votes
eligible to be cast) is necessary to certify a union to represent a craft or class of employees.
Concurrent with the NMB’s proposal, the two remaining pre-merger NWA unions, the Association of
Flight Attendants-CWA, which represented flight attendants at pre-merger NWA, and the International
Association of Machinists, which represented various categories of ground employees at pre-merger
NWA, withdrew applications that they had filed with the National Mediation Board to resolve
post-merger representation issues at Delta. While it is unclear when representation issues will be
resolved in those workgroups, we are proceeding with a substantial portion of our operational
integration.

If a labor union is certified to represent a combined group post-merger, the terms and
conditions of employment of the combined work group ultimately will be subject to negotiations
toward a joint collective bargaining agreement. Completing joint collective bargaining agreements
covering combined work groups that choose to be represented by a labor union could take significant
time, which could delay or impede our ability to achieve targeted synergies from the merger.

With respect to integration of seniority lists, where the two employee groups in a craft or
class have different representation status, federal law requires that seniority integration be
governed by the procedures first issued by the Civil Aeronautics Board in the Allegheny-Mohawk
merger—known as the Allegheny-Mohawk Labor Protective Provisions. In general, Allegheny-Mohawk
Labor Protective Provisions require that seniority be integrated in a “fair and equitable” manner
and that any disputes not resolved by negotiations may be submitted to binding arbitration by a
neutral arbitrator. This requirement is consistent with the seniority protection policy that has
been adopted by the Delta board of directors. Where both groups are represented by the same union
prior to the merger, seniority integration is governed by the union’s bylaws and policies. The
integration of the seniority lists of the pilots of Delta and NWA as well as flight dispatchers,
meteorologists and aircraft maintenance technicians and related Technical Operations employees have
been resolved.



Executive Officers

Richard H. Anderson, Age 54: Chief Executive Officer of Delta since September 1, 2007;
Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of its Commercial Services Group
(December 2006—August 2007); Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group (November
2004—December 2006); Chief Executive Officer of Northwest (2001—November 2004).

Edward
H. Bastian, Age 52: President of Delta since
September 1, 2007; President of Delta and Chief
Executive Officer NWA (October 2008—December 2009); President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta
(September 2007—October 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta (July
2005—September 2007); Chief Financial Officer, Acuity Brands (June 2005—July 2005); Senior Vice
President—Finance and Controller of Delta (2000—April 2005); Vice President and Controller of
Delta (1998—2000).

Michael J. Becker, Age 48: Executive Vice President of Delta since October 2008; Executive
Vice President of Delta and Chief Operating Officer NWA (October 2008—December 2009); Senior Vice
President of Human Resources and Labor Relations of Northwest (May 2005—October 2008); Senior Vice
President—Human Resources of Northwest (August 2001 to May 2005); Vice President—International of
Northwest (2000—August 2001).





Michael H. Campbell, Age 61: Executive Vice President—HR & Labor Relations of Delta since
October 2008; Executive Vice President—HR, Labor & Communications of Delta (December 2007—October
2008); Executive Vice President—Human Resources and Labor Relations of Delta (July 2006—December
2007); Of Counsel, Ford & Harrison (January 2005—July 2006); Senior Vice President—Human
Resources and Labor Relations, Continental Airlines, Inc. (1997—2004); Partner, Ford & Harrison
(1978—1996).

Stephen E. Gorman, Age 54: Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Delta since
October 2008; Executive Vice President—Operations of Delta (December 2007-October 2008); President
and Chief Executive Officer of Greyhound Lines, Inc. (June 2003—October 2007); President, North
America and Executive Vice President Operations Support at Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Inc. (August
2001—June 2003); Executive Vice President, Technical Operations and Flight Operations of Northwest
(February 2001—August 2001), Senior Vice President, Technical Operations of Northwest (January
1999—February 2001), and Vice President, Engine Maintenance Operations of Northwest (April 1996—January 1999).

Glen W. Hauenstein, Age 49: Executive Vice President—Network Planning and Revenue Management
of Delta since April 2006; Executive Vice President and Chief of Network and Revenue Management of
Delta (August 2005—April 2006); Vice General Director—Chief Commercial Officer and Chief
Operating Officer of Alitalia (2003—2005); Senior Vice President—Network of Continental Airlines
(2003); Senior Vice President—Scheduling of Continental Airlines (2001— 2003); Vice President
Scheduling of Continental Airlines (1998—2001).

Hank Halter, Age 45: Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta since October
2008; Senior Vice President—Finance and Controller of Delta (May 2005—October 2008); Vice
President—Controller of Delta (March 2005—May 2005); Vice President—Assistant Controller of
Delta (January 2002—March 2005); and Vice President—Finance—Operations of Delta (February
2000—December 2001); various finance leadership positions at Delta and American Airlines, Inc.
(June 1993—February 2000).

Richard B. Hirst, Age 65: Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Delta since October
2008; Senior Vice President—Corporate Affairs and General Counsel of Northwest (March 2008—
October 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of KB Home (March 2004— November
2006); Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Burger King Corporation (March 2001—June
2003); General Counsel of the Minnesota Twins (1999—2000); Senior Vice President—Corporate
Affairs of Northwest (1994—1999); Senior Vice President—General Counsel of Northwest
(1990—1994); Vice President—General Counsel and Secretary of Continental Airlines (1986—1990).



Additional Information

We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after these reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or our
other securities filings and is not a part of those filings.







