ITEM 1. BUSINESS





General



We provide scheduled air transportation for passengers and cargo throughout the United States and around the world. Our global route network gives us a presence in every major domestic and international market. Our route network is centered around a system of hub and international gateway airports that we operate in Amsterdam, Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York - LaGuardia, New York-JFK, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Salt Lake City, Seattle and Tokyo-Narita. Each of these hub operations includes flights that gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region surrounding the hub or gateway to domestic and international cities and to other hubs or gateways. Our network is supported by a fleet of aircraft that is varied in terms of size and capabilities, giving us flexibility to adjust aircraft to the network.



Other key characteristics of our route network include:



•our alliances with foreign airlines, including our membership in SkyTeam, a global airline alliance;



•our international joint ventures, particularly our transatlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia;



•our domestic marketing alliance with Alaska Airlines, which expands our west coast service; and



•agreements with multiple domestic regional carriers, which operate as Delta Connection.



We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta, Georgia. Our telephone number is (404) 715-2600 and our Internet address is www.delta.com. Information contained on our website is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference in, this Form 10-K.



International Alliances



We have bilateral and multilateral marketing alliances with foreign airlines, which are an increasingly important part of our business as they improve our access to international markets and enable Delta to market expanded and globally integrated air transportation services. These arrangements include reciprocal codesharing and frequent flyer program participation and airport lounge access arrangements, and may also include joint sales and marketing coordination, co-location of airport facilities and other commercial cooperation arrangements. These alliances also often present opportunities in other areas, such as airport ground handling arrangements and aircraft maintenance insourcing.



We have international codeshare arrangements with the following international carriers: Aeroméxico, Air Europa, Air France, Alitalia, Aeroflot, China Airlines, China Eastern, China Southern, CSA Czech Airlines, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, Korean Air, Olympic Air, VRG Linhas Aéreas (operating as GOL), Vietnam Airlines, Virgin Australia and WestJet (and affiliated carriers operating in conjunction with some of these airlines).



SkyTeam. In addition to our marketing alliance agreements with individual foreign airlines, we are a member of the SkyTeam global airline alliance. The other members of SkyTeam are Aeroflot, Aerolineas Argentinas, Aeroméxico, Air Europa, Air France, Alitalia, China Airlines, China Eastern, China Southern, CSA Czech Airlines, Kenya Airways, KLM, Korean Air, Middle East Airlines, Saudi Arabian Airlines, Tarom, Vietnam Airlines and Xiamen Airlines. Garuda Indonesia also has announced its formal intent to join SkyTeam. Through alliance arrangements with other SkyTeam carriers, Delta is able to link its network with the route networks of the other member airlines, providing opportunities for increased connecting traffic while offering enhanced customer service through reciprocal codesharing and frequent flyer arrangements and airport lounge access programs and coordinated cargo operations.



Transatlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia. In addition to being members in SkyTeam, we operate a transatlantic joint venture with Air France and KLM, both of which are subsidiaries of the same holding company, and Alitalia, which covers routes between North America and Europe. The joint venture agreement provides for the sharing of revenues and costs, as well as joint marketing and sales, coordinated pricing and revenue management, network planning and scheduling and other coordinated activities with respect to the parties' operations on joint venture routes.












Proposed transatlantic joint venture with Virgin Atlantic. In December 2012, in connection with entering into an agreement for the purchase by Delta from Singapore Airlines of a 49% equity stake in Virgin Atlantic Limited ("VAL"), we and Virgin Atlantic Airways entered into a joint venture agreement with respect to operations on non-stop routes between the United Kingdom and North America. The joint venture agreement provides for the sharing of revenues and costs, as well as joint marketing and sales activities, coordinated pricing and revenue management, network planning and scheduling and other coordinated activities with respect to the parties' operations on joint venture routes. We and Virgin Atlantic will file an application with the U.S. Department of Transportation for U.S. antitrust immunity with respect to the joint venture. The share purchase transaction will be reviewed by the U.S. Department of Justice and regulatory authorities in Europe and other relevant jurisdictions. The closing of the share purchase transaction is subject to certain conditions, including receipt of required governmental approvals. At the closing of the share purchase transaction, Delta will enter into a shareholders agreement with VAL and affiliates of Virgin Group (the controlling shareholder of VAL) containing provisions relating to the governance and management of VAL and the rights and obligations of the shareholders.



Transpacific joint venture with Virgin Australia Airlines. In November 2012, following the grant of U.S. antitrust immunity by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the receipt of required regulatory approvals from the Australian and New Zealand authorities, we and Virgin Australia implemented our joint venture covering operations on certain transpacific routes between North America and the South Pacific. The joint venture agreement provides for the sharing of incremental revenues on the joint venture routes, as well as joint marketing and sales activities, joint pricing and revenue management, network planning and scheduling with respect to the parties' operations on joint venture routes.



Enhanced commercial agreements with Latin American Carriers.In 2011, we entered into separate agreements with Grupo Aeroméxico, S.A.B. de C.V., the parent company of Aeroméxico, and GOL Linhas Aéreas Inteligentes, S.A, the parent company of GOL, for a strategic equity investment in each company and an exclusive commercial relationship with each company's affiliated air carrier. We invested in GOL and Aeromexico because they operate in Latin America's two largest markets, Brazil and Mexico, respectively. The agreements provide for expansion of reciprocal codesharing and frequent flyer program participation, airport lounge access arrangements, improved passenger connections and potential joint sales cooperation. In addition to our commercial cooperation arrangements for passenger service with Aeromexico, we and Aeromexico have established a joint venture relating to an engine maintenance, repair and overhaul operation that will be located in Queretaro, Mexico.



Domestic Alliances



We have entered into a marketing alliance with Alaska Airlines, which includes reciprocal codesharing and frequent flyer and airport lounge access arrangements. Our alliance agreement with Alaska Airlines provides for extensive cooperation with respect to our west coast presence. We also have reciprocal codesharing and frequent flyer and airport lounge access arrangements with Hawaiian Airlines.



Regional Carriers



We have air service agreements with multiple domestic regional air carriers that feed traffic to our route system by serving passengers primarily in small-and medium-sized cities. These arrangements enable us to increase the number of flights we have available in certain locations and to better match capacity with demand. Approximately21%of our passenger revenue in 2012 was related to flying by regional air carriers.



Through our regional carrier program, we have contractual arrangements with seven regional carriers to operate regional jet and, in certain cases, turbo-prop aircraft using our “DL” designator code. We have contractual arrangements with: ExpressJet Airlines, Inc. and SkyWest Airlines, Inc., both subsidiaries of SkyWest, Inc.; Chautauqua Airlines, Inc. and Shuttle America Corporation, both subsidiaries of Republic Airways Holdings, Inc.; Pinnacle Airlines, Inc., a subsidiary of Pinnacle Airlines Corp.; Compass Airlines, Inc. (“Compass”) and GoJet Airlines, LLC, both subsidiaries of Trans States Holdings, Inc. (“Trans States”). In connection with the exit of Pinnacle Airlines Corp. and Pinnacle Airlines, Inc. from bankruptcy reorganization, we expect to become the sole equity holder of Pinnacle Airlines Corp. as the result of being the primary provider of financing during its bankruptcy.












Our contractual agreements with regional carriers primarily are capacity purchase arrangements, under which we control the scheduling, pricing, reservations, ticketing and seat inventories for the regional carriers' flights operating under our “DL” designator code, and we are entitled to all ticket, cargo, mail and in-flight and ancillary revenues associated with these flights. We pay those airlines an amount, as defined in the applicable agreement, which is based on a determination of their cost of operating those flights and other factors intended to approximate market rates for those services. These capacity purchase agreements are long-term agreements, usually with initial terms of at least 10 years, which grant us the option to extend the initial term. Certain of these agreements provide us the right to terminate the entire agreement, or in some cases remove some of the aircraft from the scope of the agreement, for convenience at certain future dates.



A portion of the flights operated for us by SkyWest Airlines are structured as revenue proration agreements. These proration agreements establish a fixed dollar or percentage division of revenues for tickets sold to passengers traveling on connecting flight itineraries.





Fuel



Our results of operations are significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. The following table shows our aircraft fuel consumption and costs.

YearGallons Consumed(1)(Millions)Cost(1)(2)(Millions)Average Price Per Gallon(1)(2)Percentage of Total Operating Expense(1)(2)20123,769$12,251$3.2536%20113,856$11,783$3.0636%20103,823$8,901$2.3330%



(1)Includes the operations of our contract carriers under capacity purchase agreements.

(2)Includes fuel hedge (losses) gains under our fuel hedging program of $(66) million, $420 million and $(89) million for2012,2011and2010, respectively.



General



Jet fuel costs have continued to increase in recent years, making fuel expense our single largest expense. We have historically purchased most of our aircraft fuel under contracts that establish the price based on various market indices and therefore do not provide material protection against price increases or assure the availability of our fuel supplies. We also purchase aircraft fuel on the spot market, from off-shore sources and under contracts that permit the refiners to set the price.



Monroe Energy



Because global demand for jet fuel and related products is increasing at the same time that jet fuel refining capacity is decreasing in the U.S. (particularly in the Northeast), the refining margin reflected in the prices we pay for jet fuel has increased. Our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Monroe Energy, LLC and MIPC, LLC (collectively, “Monroe”), acquired the Trainer refinery and related assets located near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in June 2012 as part of our strategy to mitigate the increasing cost of the refining margin we are paying.



Refinery Acquisition.Monroe invested $180 million to acquire the refinery from Phillips 66. Monroe received a $30 million grant from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The acquisition includes pipelines and terminal assets that allow the refinery to supply jet fuel to our airline operations throughout the Northeastern U.S., including our New York hubs at LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy International Airport ("JFK"). Prior to the transaction, Phillips 66 had shut down operations at the refinery.



Refinery Operations.The facility is capable of refining 185,000 barrels of crude oil per day. In addition to jet fuel, the refinery's production consists of gasoline, diesel and refined products (“non-jet fuel products”). Production at the refinery restarted in September 2012. BP is the primary supplier of crude oil used by the refinery under a three year agreement.  We are also exploring other sources of crude oil supply, such as bringing supply to the refinery by rail from the Bakken oil field in North Dakota.












Strategic Agreements.Under a multi-year agreement, we are exchanging a significant portion of the non-jet fuel products with Phillips 66 for jet fuel to be used in our airline operations. Substantially all of the remaining production of non-jet fuel products is being sold to BP under a long-term buy/sell agreement effectively exchanging those non-jet fuel products for jet fuel. Our agreement with Phillips 66 requires us to deliver specified quantities of non-jet fuel products and they are required to deliver jet fuel to us. If we or Phillips 66 do not have the specified quantity and type of product available, the delivering party is required to procure any such shortage to fulfill its obligation under the agreement. Substantially all of the refinery's expected production of non-jet fuel products is included in these agreements.



Segments.Because the products and services of Monroe's refinery operations are discrete from our airline services, segment results are prepared for our airline segment and our refinery segment.Financial information on our segment reporting can be found in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Fuel Hedging Program



We actively manage our fuel price risk through a hedging program intended to reduce the financial impact on us from changes in the price of jet fuel.This fuel hedging program utilizes several different contract and commodity types.The economic effectiveness of this hedge portfolio is frequently tested against our financial targets. The hedge portfolio is rebalanced from time to time according to market conditions, which may result in locking in gains or losses on hedge contracts prior to their settlement dates.



Fuel Supply Availability



We are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, including through our purchases from Monroe, but it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. Weather-related events, natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in government policy concerning aircraft fuel production, transportation or marketing, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages and fuel price increases in the future.





Frequent Flyer Program



Our SkyMiles®frequent flyer program is designed to retain and increase traveler loyalty by offering incentives to customers to increase travel on Delta. The SkyMiles program allows program members to earn mileage for travel awards by flying on Delta, Delta's regional carriers and other participating airlines. Mileage credit may also be earned by using certain services offered by program participants, such as credit card companies, hotels and car rental agencies. In addition, individuals and companies may purchase mileage credits. Miles do not expire, but are subject to all program rules. We reserve the right to terminate the program with six months advance notice, and to change the program's terms and conditions at any time without notice.



SkyMiles program mileage credits can be redeemed for air travel on Delta and participating airlines, for membership in our Delta Sky Clubs®and for other program participant awards. Mileage credits are subject to certain transfer restrictions and travel awards are subject to capacity-controlled seating. In2012, program members redeemed more than 262 billion miles in the SkyMiles program for 11 million award redemptions. During this period, 8% of revenue miles flown on Delta were from award travel.





Other Businesses



Cargo



Through our global network, our cargo operations are able to connect all of the world's major freight gateways. We generate cargo revenues in domestic and international markets primarily through the use of cargo space on regularly scheduled passenger aircraft. We are a member of SkyTeam Cargo, a global airline cargo alliance, whose other members are Aeroflot, Aeromexico Cargo, Air France-KLM Cargo, Alitalia Cargo, China Airlines Cargo, China Southern Cargo, Czech Airlines Cargo and Korean Air Cargo. SkyTeam Cargo offers a global network spanning six continents.












Delta TechOps, Delta Global Services, MLT Vacations and Delta Private Jets



We have several other businesses arising from our airline operations, including aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”), staffing services for third parties, vacation wholesale operations and our private jet operations. In 2012, the total revenue from these businesses was approximately $1 billion.



•In addition to providing maintenance and engineering support for our fleet of over 700 aircraft, our MRO operation, known as Delta TechOps, serves aviation and airline customers from around the world.



•Our staffing services business, Delta Global Services, provides staffing services, professional security, training services and aviation solutions.



•Our vacation wholesale business, MLT Vacations, provides vacation packages.



•Our private jet operations, Delta Private Jets, provides aircraft charters, aircraft management and programs allowing members to purchase flight time by the hour.





Distribution and Expanded Product Offerings



Our tickets are sold through various distribution channels including telephone reservations, delta.com, global distribution systems and online travel agencies. An increasing number of our tickets are sold through delta.com, which reduces our distribution costs and gives us closer contact with our customers. We launched a new delta.com platform in November 2012, which we expect will result in additional purchases of tickets and services through that channel.



We are transforming distribution from a commodity approach to a differentiated and merchandised approach. We expect that the merchandising initiatives we are implementing, primarily through delta.com, will generate additional revenue opportunities for us and will improve the experience of our customers. We provide our customers with opportunities to purchase what they value, such as first class upgrades, economy comfort seating, WiFi access and SkyClub passes. We expect to benefit from increased traffic on delta.com through a combination of advertising revenue and sales of third party merchandise and services such as car rentals, hotels and trip insurance.





Competition



The airline industry is highly competitive, marked by significant competition with respect to routes, fares, schedules (both timing and frequency), services, products, customer service and frequent flyer programs. The industry is going through a period of transformation through consolidation, both domestically and internationally, and changes in international alliances. Consolidation in the airline industry and changes in international alliances have altered and will continue to alter the competitive landscape in the industry by resulting in the formation of airlines and alliances with increased financial resources, more extensive global networks and altered cost structures. In addition, other network carriers have also significantly reduced their costs over the last several years including through restructuring and bankruptcy reorganization. American Airlines is nearing the end of its bankruptcy restructuring, which is enabling it to reduce its costs. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure.



Domestic



Our domestic operations are subject to competition from both traditional network and discount carriers, some of which may have lower costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. In particular, we face significant competition at our domestic hub airports in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York-LaGuardia, New York-JFK and Salt Lake City either directly at those airports or at the hubs of other airlines that are located in close proximity to our hubs. We also face competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from regional jet operators.












International



Our international operations are subject to competition from both domestic and foreign carriers. Through alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements with foreign carriers, U.S. carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as services to and beyond traditional European and Asian gateway cities. Similarly, foreign carriers have obtained increased access to interior U.S. passenger traffic beyond traditional U.S. gateway cities through these relationships. In particular, alliances formed by domestic and foreign carriers, including SkyTeam, the Star Alliance (among United Airlines, Lufthansa German Airlines, Air Canada, All Nippon Airways and others) and the oneworld alliance (among American Airlines, British Airways, Iberia, Qantas and others) have significantly increased competition in international markets.



Increased competition has also emerged from well-funded carriers in the Gulf region, including Emirates, Etihad and Qatar.  These carriers have large numbers of international widebody aircraft on order and are increasing service to the United States from their hubs in the Middle East. Several of these carriers, along with carriers from China, India and Latin America, are government supported or funded, which has allowed them to grow quickly, reinvest in their product and expand their global presence at the expense of U.S. airlines. In addition, the adoption of liberalized Open Skies Aviation Agreements with an increasing number of countries around the world, including in particular the Open Skies Treaties that the U.S. has with the Member States of the European Union, Japan and the Gulf states, could significantly increase competition among carriers serving those markets.



Several joint ventures among U.S. and foreign carriers, including our transatlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia and our transpacific joint venture with Virgin Australia, have received grants of antitrust immunity allowing the participating carriers to coordinate schedules, pricing, sales and inventory. Other joint ventures that have received anti-trust immunity include a transatlantic alliance among United, Air Canada and Lufthansa, a transpacific joint venture among United and All Nippon Airways, a transatlantic joint venture among American, British Airways and Iberia and a transpacific joint venture between American and Japan Air Lines.





Regulatory Matters



The Department of Transportation (“DOT”) and the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) exercise regulatory authority over air transportation in the U.S. The DOT has authority to issue certificates of public convenience and necessity required for airlines to provide domestic air transportation. An air carrier that the DOT finds fit to operate is given authority to operate domestic and international air transportation (including the carriage of passengers and cargo). Except for constraints imposed by regulations regarding “Essential Air Services,” which are applicable to certain small communities, airlines may terminate service to a city without restriction.



The DOT has jurisdiction over certain economic and consumer protection matters, such as unfair or deceptive practices and methods of competition, advertising, denied boarding compensation, baggage liability and disabled passenger transportation. The DOT also has authority to review certain joint venture agreements between major carriers and engages in regulation of economic matters such as slot transactions. The FAA has primary responsibility for matters relating to the safety of air carrier flight operations, including airline operating certificates, control of navigable air space, flight personnel, aircraft certification and maintenance and other matters affecting air safety.



Authority to operate international routes and international codesharing arrangements is regulated by the DOT and by the governments of the foreign countries involved. International certificate authorities are also subject to the approval of the U.S. President for conformance with national defense and foreign policy objectives.



The Transportation Security Administration and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, each a division of the Department of Homeland Security, are responsible for certain civil aviation security matters, including passenger and baggage screening at U.S. airports and international passenger prescreening prior to entry into or departure from the U.S.



Airlines are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. For example, the U.S. Department of Justice has jurisdiction over airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry, as discussed below, are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act. Environmental matters are regulated by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities. Privacy of passenger and employee data is regulated by domestic and foreign laws and regulations.












Fares and Rates



Airlines set ticket prices in all domestic and most international city pairs with minimal governmental regulation, and the industry is characterized by significant price competition. Certain international fares and rates are subject to the jurisdiction of the DOT and the governments of the foreign countries involved. Many of our tickets are sold by travel agents, and fares are subject to commissions, overrides and discounts paid to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers.



Route Authority



Our flight operations are authorized by certificates of public convenience and necessity and also by exemptions and limited-entry frequency awards issued by the DOT. The requisite approvals of other governments for international operations are controlled by bilateral agreements (and a multilateral agreement in the case of the U.S. and the European Union) with, or permits or approvals issued by, foreign countries. Because international air transportation is governed by bilateral or other agreements between the U.S. and the foreign country or countries involved, changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of our international route authorities or otherwise affect our international operations. Bilateral agreements between the U.S. and various foreign countries served by us are subject to renegotiation from time to time. The U.S. government has negotiated “open skies” agreements with many countries, which allow unrestricted access between the U.S. and the foreign markets. These agreements include separate agreements with the European Union and Japan.



Certain of our international route authorities are subject to periodic renewal requirements. We request extension of these authorities when and as appropriate. While the DOT usually renews temporary authorities on routes where the authorized carrier is providing a reasonable level of service, there is no assurance this practice will continue in general or with respect to a specific renewal. Dormant route authorities may not be renewed in some cases, especially where another U.S. carrier indicates a willingness to provide service.



Airport Access



Operations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by us are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of “slots” or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period.



In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of slots, slot exemptions, operating authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at Reagan National in Washington, D.C. and LaGuardia, John F. Kennedy International Airport (“JFK”) and Newark in the New York City area. Our operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or analogous regulatory authorizations. Similarly, our operations at Tokyo's Narita and Haneda Airports, London's Gatwick and Heathrow airports and other international airports are regulated by local slot coordinators pursuant to the International Air Transport Association's Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law. We currently have sufficient slots or analogous authorizations to operate our existing flights, and we have generally been able to obtain the rights to expand our operations and to change our schedules. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are subject to changes in governmental policies.



Environmental Matters



Emissions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) is authorized to regulate aircraft emissions and has historically implemented emissions control standards previously adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”). Our aircraft comply with existing EPA standards as applicable by engine design date. The ICAO has adopted two additional aircraft engine emissions standards, the first of which is applicable to engines certified after December 31, 2007, and the second of which is applicable to engines certified after December 31, 2013. In June 2012, theEPA published a final rulemaking for new emission standards for oxides of nitrogen (NOx), adopting ICAO's additional standards. Included in the rule are two new tiers of more stringent emission standards for NOx.These standards, referred to as the Tier 6 standards, become effective for newly-manufactured aircraft engines beginning in 2013.












Concern about aviation environmental issues, including climate change and greenhouse gases, has led to taxes on our operations in the United Kingdom and in Germany, both of which have levied taxes directly on our customers. We may face additional regulation of aircraft emissions in the United States and abroad and become subject to further taxes, charges or additional requirements to obtain permits or purchase allowances or emission credits for greenhouse gas emissions in various jurisdictions. This could result in taxation or permitting requirements from multiple jurisdictions for the same operations. Ongoing bilateral discussions between the United States and other nations as well as discussions at the ICAO Assembly and Conference of the Parties, most recently in Doha, Qatar in December 2012, may lead to international treaties or other actions focusing on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from aviation.



The European Union has required its member states to implement regulations including aviation in its Emissions Trading Scheme (“ETS”). Under these regulations, any airline with flights originating or landing in the European Union is subject to the ETS and, beginning in 2012, is required to purchase emissions allowances if the airline exceeds the number of free allowances allocated to it under the ETS. In November 2012, the European Commission proposed to defer airlines' compliance obligations for non-European flights and suspended related non-compliance sanctions until after the 38th ICAO Assembly to be held in late September and early October of 2013. The European Commission has taken this action to give the process at ICAO time to come to a conclusion. Under the proposal, airlines will not face enforcement action if they do not surrender allowances for their emissions related to flights operated to and from non-EU destinations; however, all intra-EU flights on any carrier (based in the EU or not) will still have to comply with the requirements of the ETS. Legislation is required to implement this proposed change and a co-decision by both the EU Member States and the European Parliament on this change is necessary. A decision is expected before April 2013. Further, at the end of November 2012, the United State government enacted legislation exempting U.S. airlines from the ETS.



Cap and trade restrictions have also been proposed in the United States. In addition, other legislative or regulatory action, including by the EPA, to regulate greenhouse gas emissions is possible. In particular, the EPA has found that greenhouse gases threaten the public health and welfare, which could result in regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. In the event that legislation or regulation is enacted in the U.S. or in the event similar legislation or regulation is enacted in jurisdictions other than the European Union where we operate or where wemay operate in the future, it could result in significant costs for us and the airline industry. In addition to direct costs, such regulation may have a greater effect on the airline industry through increases in fuel costs that could result from fuel suppliers passing on increased costs that they incur under such a system. We are monitoring and evaluating the potential impact of such legislative and regulatory developments.



We seek to minimize the impact of greenhouse gas emissions from our operations through reductions in our fuel consumption and other efforts and have realized reductions in our greenhouse gas emission levels since 2005. We have reduced the fuel needs of our aircraft fleet through the retirement and replacement of certain elements of our fleet and with newer, more fuel efficient aircraft. In addition, we have implemented fuel saving procedures in our flight and ground support operations that further reduce carbon emissions. We are also supporting efforts to develop alternative fuels and efforts to modernize the air traffic control system in the U.S., as part of our efforts to reduce our emissions and minimize our impact on the environment.



Noise. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 recognizes the rights of operators of airports with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as such programs do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or thenationalair transportation system. This statute generally provides that local noise restrictions on Stage 3 aircraft first effective after October 1, 1990, require FAA approval. While we have had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions in the past, our operations could be adversely impacted if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.



Refinery Matters. Monroe's operation of the Trainer Refinery is subject to numerous environmental laws and extensive regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention measuresandgreenhouse gas emissions. If Monroe violates or fails to comply with these laws and regulations, Monroe could be fined or otherwise sanctioned, which, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the enactment of new environmental laws and regulations, including any laws or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could significantly increase the level of expenditures required for environmental matters for Monroe.



Other Environmental Matters. We had been identified by the EPA as a potentially responsible party (a “PRP”) with respect to certain Superfund Sites, and entered into consent decrees or settlements regarding some of these sites. Our alleged disposal volume at each of these sites was small or was consideredde minimiswhen compared to the total contributions of all PRPs at each site.












We are aware of soil and/or ground water contamination present on our current or former leaseholds at several domestic airports. To address this contamination, we have a program in place to investigate and, if appropriate, remediate these sites. Although the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.



We are also subject to various other federal, state and local laws governing environmental matters, including the management and disposal of chemicals, waste and hazardous materials, protection of surface and subsurface waters and regulation of air emissions and aircraft drinking water.



Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program



We participate in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program (the “CRAF Program”), which permits the U.S. military to use the aircraft and crew resources of participating U.S. airlines during airlift emergencies, national emergencies or times of war. We have agreed to make available under the CRAF Program a portion of our international long-range aircraft during the contract period ending September 30, 2013. We have also committed aircraft to international short-range requirements. The CRAF Program has only been activated twice since it was created in 1951.





Employee Matters



Railway Labor Act



Our relations with labor unions representing our airline employees in the U.S. are governed by the Railway Labor Act. Under the Railway Labor Act, a labor union seeking to represent an unrepresented craft or class of employees is required to file with the National Mediation Board (the “NMB”) an application alleging a representation dispute, along with authorization cards signed by at least 50% of the employees in that craft or class. The NMB then investigates the dispute and, if it finds the labor union has obtained a sufficient number of authorization cards, conducts an election to determine whether to certify the labor union as the collective bargaining representative of that craft or class. A labor union will be certified as the representative of the employees in a craft or class if more than 50% of votes cast are for that union. A certified labor union would commence negotiations toward a collective bargaining agreement with the employer.



Under the Railway Labor Act, a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a labor union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. Either party may request that the NMB appoint a federal mediator to participate in the negotiations for a new or amended agreement. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB may determine, at any time, that an impasse exists and offer binding arbitration. If either party rejects binding arbitration, a 30-day “cooling off” period begins. At the end of this 30-day period, the parties may engage in “self help,” unless the U.S. President appoints a Presidential Emergency Board (“PEB”) to investigate and report on the dispute. The appointment of a PEB maintains the “status quo” for an additional 60 days. If the parties do not reach agreement during this period, the parties may then engage in “self help.” “Self help” includes, among other things, a strike by the union or the imposition of proposed changes to the collective bargaining agreement by the airline. Congress and the President have the authority to prevent “self help” by enacting legislation that, among other things, imposes a settlement on the parties.



Collective Bargaining



As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had approximately74,000full-time equivalent employees, approximately15%of whom were represented by unions. The following table shows our domestic airline employee groups that are represented by unions.

Employee GroupApproximate Number of Active Employees RepresentedUnionDate on which Collective Bargaining Agreement Becomes AmendableDelta Pilots10,700ALPADecember 31, 2015Delta Flight Superintendents (Dispatchers)340PAFCADecember 31, 2013



In addition,220refinery employees of Monroe are represented by the United Steel Workers under an agreement that expires on February 26, 2015. This agreement is governed by the National Labor Relations Act, which generally allows either party to engage in self-help upon the expiration of the agreement.



Labor unions periodically engage in organizing efforts to represent various groups of our employees, including at our operating subsidiaries, that are not represented for collective bargaining purposes.














Executive Officers of the Registrant



Richard H. Anderson, Age 57: Chief Executive Officer of Delta since September 1, 2007; Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of its Commercial Services Group (December 2006-August 2007); Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group (November 2004-December 2006); Chief Executive Officer of Northwest Airlines Corporation (“Northwest”) (2001-November 2004).



Edward H. Bastian, Age 55: President of Delta since September 1, 2007; President of Delta and Chief Executive Officer Northwest Airlines, Inc. (October 2008-December 2009); President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta (September 2007-October 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta (July 2005-September 2007); Chief Financial Officer, Acuity Brands (June 2005-July 2005); Senior Vice President-Finance and Controller of Delta (2000-April 2005); Vice President and Controller of Delta (1998-2000).



Michael H. Campbell, Age 64: Executive Vice President-HR & Labor Relations of Delta since October 2008; Executive Vice President-HR, Labor & Communications of Delta (December 2007-October 2008); Executive Vice President-Human Resources and Labor Relations of Delta (July 2006-December 2007); Of Counsel, Ford & Harrison (January 2005-July 2006); Senior Vice President-Human Resources and Labor Relations, Continental Airlines, Inc. (1997-2004); Partner, Ford & Harrison (1978-1996).



Stephen E. Gorman, Age 57: Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Delta since October 2008; Executive Vice President-Operations of Delta (December 2007-October 2008); President and Chief Executive Officer of Greyhound Lines, Inc. (June 2003-October 2007); President, North America and Executive Vice President Operations Support at Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Inc. (August 2001-June 2003); Executive Vice President, Technical Operations and Flight Operations of Northwest (February 2001-August 2001), Senior Vice President, Technical Operations of Northwest (January 1999-February 2001) and Vice President, Engine Maintenance Operations of Northwest (April 1996-January 1999).



Glen W. Hauenstein, Age 52: Executive Vice President-Network Planning and Revenue Management of Delta since April 2006; Executive Vice President and Chief of Network and Revenue Management of Delta (August 2005-April 2006); Vice General Director-Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Operating Officer of Alitalia (2003-2005); Senior Vice President-Network of Continental Airlines (2003); Senior Vice President-Scheduling of Continental Airlines (2001- 2003); Vice President Scheduling of Continental Airlines (1998-2001).



Richard B. Hirst, Age 68: Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Delta since October 2008; Senior Vice President-Corporate Affairs and General Counsel of Northwest (March 2008- October 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of KB Home (March 2004-November 2006); Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Burger King Corporation (March 2001-June 2003); General Counsel of the Minnesota Twins (1999-2000); Senior Vice President-Corporate Affairs of Northwest (1994-1999); Senior Vice President-General Counsel of Northwest (1990-1994); Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary of Continental Airlines (1986-1990).



Paul A. Jacobson, Age 41.  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Delta since March 2012; Senior Vice President and Treasurer for Delta (December 2007 - March 2012); Vice President and Treasurer (August 2005 - December 2007).





Additional Information



We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or our other securities filings and is not a part of those filings.














