ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



We are the second largest provider of services in the domestic
    non-hazardous solid waste industry as measured by revenue. We
    provide non-hazardous solid waste collection services for
    commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers
    through 376 collection companies in 40 states and Puerto
    Rico. We own or operate 223 transfer stations, 192 active solid
    waste landfills and 78 recycling facilities. We also operate
    74 landfill gas and renewable energy projects. We were
    incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1996.



Based on analysts’ reports and industry trade publications,
    we believe that the United States non-hazardous solid waste
    services industry generates annual revenue of approximately
    $56 billion, of which approximately 58% is generated by
    publicly owned waste companies. We believe that we and one other
    public waste company generated in excess of 60% of the publicly
    owned companies’ total revenue. Additionally, industry data
    indicates that the non-hazardous waste industry in the United
    States remains fragmented as privately held companies and
    municipal and other local governmental authorities generate
    approximately 16% and 26%, respectively, of total industry
    revenue. In general, growth in the solid waste industry is
    linked to growth in the overall economy, including the level of
    new household and business formation and is subject to changes
    in residential and commercial construction activity.



day-to-day

Segment Reporting,

Form 10-K



On December 5, 2008, we acquired all of the issued and
    outstanding shares of Allied in astock-for-stocktransaction for an aggregate purchase price of
    $12.1 billion, which included approximately
    $5.4 billion of debt, at fair value. As a condition of the
    merger with Allied, the Department of Justice (DOJ) required us
    to divest of certain assets and related liabilities. As of
    September 30, 2009, we completed our required divestitures.
    As a result of our acquisition of Allied, we committed to a
    restructuring plan related to our corporate overhead and other
    administrative and operating functions. The plan included
    closing our corporate office in Florida, consolidating
    administrative functions to Arizona, the former headquarters of
    Allied, and reducing staffing levels. The plan also included
    closing and consolidating certain operating locations and
    terminating certain leases. We believe that our merger with
    Allied created a strong operating platform that will allow us to
    continue to provide quality service to our customers and
    superior returns to our stockholders.



We had revenue of $8.2 billion and $3.7 billion and
    operating income of $1.6 billion and $0.3 billion for
    the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
    In addition to our merger with Allied, a number of





items impacted our 2009 and 2008 financial results. For a
    description of these items, see Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Overview of Our
    Business and Consolidated Results of Operationsincluded
    elsewhere in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



During the past several years, we supported our internal growth
    strategy with our presence in markets with higher than average
    population growth. We believe our presence in these markets
    positions us to experience growth at rates that are generally
    higher than those of declining population growth.



We continue to focus on enhancing shareholder value by
    implementing our financial, operating and growth strategies. In
    order to ensure that our goals relative to these strategies are
    achieved, we have developed and implemented incentive programs
    that help focus our entire company on realizing key performance
    metrics which include increasing free cash flow, achieving
    targeted earnings, maintaining and improving returns on invested
    capital, as well as achieving and maintaining integration
    synergies. Our financial, operating and growth strategies are
    described further herein.



Financial
    Strategy



Key components of our financial strategy include our ability to
    generate free cash flow and sustain or improve our return on
    invested capital. Our definition of free cash flow, which is not
    a measure determined in accordance with United States generally
    accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is cash provided by
    operating activities less purchases of property and equipment,
    plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented
    in our consolidated statements of cash flows. We believe that
    free cash flow is a driver of shareholder value and provides
    useful information regarding the recurring cash provided by our
    operating activities after expenditures for property and
    equipment, net of proceeds from sales of property and equipment.
    Free cash flow also demonstrates our ability to execute our
    financial strategy, which includes reinvesting in capital assets
    to ensure a high level of customer service, investing in capital
    assets to facilitate growth in our customer base and services
    provided, maintaining our investment grade ratings and
    minimizing debt, paying cash dividends, repurchasing our stock
    and maintaining and improving our market position through
    business optimization. In addition, free cash flow is a key
    metric used to determine management’s compensation.



We manage our free cash flow by ensuring that capital
    expenditures and operating asset levels are appropriate in light
    of our existing business and growth opportunities and by closely
    managing our working capital, which consists primarily of
    accounts receivable and accounts payable.



We have used and will continue to use our cash flow to maximize
    shareholder value as well as our return on invested capital. Our
    strategy includes:



•Customer Service.We will continue to
    reinvest in our existing fleet of vehicles, equipment, landfills
    and facilities to ensure the highest level of service to our
    customers and the communities we serve. Because of the economic
    slowdown, we were able to lower our capital reinvestment during
    2009 below that which otherwise would have been expected for the
    combined companies. However, we remain acutely focused on
    ensuring that we are not under investing in our business and
    that we have the appropriate complement of physical assets to
    take advantage of additional business resulting from an economic
    recovery. In addition, we continue to focus on innovative waste
    disposal processes and programs to help our customers achieve
    their goals related to sustainability and environmentally sound
    waste practices. We believe that these in turn will help us
    achieve profitable growth.•Internal Growth.



Price Growth.Growth through price increases helps
    ensure that we obtain an adequate return on our substantial
    capital investment and the business risk associated with such
    investment. Price increases also allow us to recover historical
    and current year increases in operating costs, which ultimately
    enhances our operating margins.



Volume Growth.Growth through increases in our
    customer base and services provided is the most capital
    efficient means for us to build our business. This includes not
    only expanding landfill and transfer capacity and investing in
    trucks and containers, but also includes investing in
    information





tools and training needed to ensure high productivity and
    quality service throughout all functional areas of our business.
    We work to increase collection and disposal volumes while
    ensuring that prices charged for such services provide an
    appropriate return on our capital investment.



•Debt.During 2009, payments of debt net of
    borrowings were $865.9 million. During 2009, we repaid
    approximately $1.6 billion of senior notes and amounts
    outstanding under our credit facilities primarily using proceeds
    from offering $1.3 billion of senior notes, proceeds from
    disposition of assets and cash flow from operations. As a
    result, we reduced the average coupon rate on our senior notes,
    on a weighted average basis, by more than 130 basis points
    while extending our debt maturities thereby giving greater
    stability to our capital structure. Furthermore, we anticipate
    taking advantage of capital market opportunities to mitigate our
    financial risk by issuing new debt and using the proceeds to
    repay existing debt.





•Credit Ratings.We believe that a key
    component of our financial strategy includes maintaining
    investment grade ratings on our senior debt, which was rated BBB
    by Standard & Poor’s, BBB- by Fitch and Baa3 by
    Moody’s as of December 31, 2009. Such ratings have
    allowed us, and should continue to allow us, to readily access
    capital markets at competitive rates. Our cash utilization
    strategy will continue to focus on maintaining our investment
    grade ratings.



•Dividends.In July 2003, our Board of
    Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.04 per
    share. Our quarterly dividend has increased from time to time
    thereafter, the latest increase occurring in the third quarter
    of 2008, representing an average annualized growth rate of
    approximately 30%. Our current quarterly cash dividend per share
    is $0.19. We will consider increasing our quarterly cash
    dividend if we believe it will enhance shareholder value.



•Market Growth and Optimization.Within our
    markets, our goal is to deliver sustainable, long-term
    profitable growth while efficiently operating our assets to
    generate acceptable rates of return. We allocate capital to
    businesses, markets and development projects to support growth
    while achieving acceptable rates of return. We develop
    previously non-permitted, non-contiguous landfill sites
    (greenfield landfill sites). We also expand our existing
    landfill sites, when possible. We supplement this organic growth
    with acquisitions of operating assets, such as landfills,
    transfer stations, and tuck-in acquisitions of collection and
    disposal operations in existing markets. We continuously
    evaluate our existing operating assets and their deployment
    within each market to determine if we have optimized our
    position and to ensure appropriate investment of capital. Where
    operations are not generating acceptable returns, we examine
    opportunities to achieve greater efficiencies and returns
    through the integration of additional assets. If such
    enhancements are not possible, we may ultimately decide to
    divest the existing assets and reallocate resources to other
    markets.



•Share Repurchase.Once we reduce our debt to
    EBITDA ratio, as defined in our credit agreement, we will
    consider reinstituting our share repurchase program. We believe
    that this may occur sometime during 2011. We intend to execute
    our financial strategy while maintaining flexibility to take
    advantage of market growth opportunities and maintaining our
    investment grade ratings. EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. In this
    context, EBITDA is used solely to provide information regarding
    the extent to which we are in compliance with debt covenants and
    is not comparable to EBITDA used by other companies.



For certain risks related to our financial strategy, see
    Item 1A.Risk Factors.



Operating
    Strategy



We seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to
    increase operating margins and enhance shareholder value. Our
    operating strategy for accomplishing this goal includes the
    following:



•utilize the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our
    executive management team,•integrate waste operations,•utilize a decentralized management structure in overseeingday-to-dayoperations,







•improve operating margins through economies of scale, cost
    efficiencies and asset utilization,•achieve high levels of customer satisfaction, and•utilize business information systems to improve consistency in
    financial and operational performance.



Experienced Executive Management Team.We
    believe that we have one of the most experienced executive
    management teams in the solid waste industry.



James E. O’Connor, who has served as our Chief Executive
    Officer (CEO) since December 1998, also became our Chairman in
    January 2003. He worked at Waste Management, Inc. from 1972 to
    1978 and from 1982 to 1998. During that time, he served in
    various management positions, including Senior Vice President in
    1997 and 1998, and Area President of Waste Management of
    Florida, Inc. from 1992 to 1997. Mr. O’Connor has
    35 years of experience in the solid waste industry.



Donald W. Slager became our President and Chief Operating
    Officer (COO) upon our merger with Allied in December 2008.
    Prior to the merger, Mr. Slager worked for Allied from 1992
    through 2008 and served in various management positions,
    including President and COO from 2004 through 2008 and Executive
    Vice President and COO from 2003 to 2004. From 2001 to 2003,
    Mr. Slager served as Senior Vice President, Operations. He
    held various management positions at Allied from 1992 to 2003,
    and was previously General Manager at National Waste Services,
    where he served in various management positions since 1985.
    Mr. Slager has over 24 years of experience in the
    solid waste industry.



Tod C. Holmes has served as our Chief Financial Officer (CFO)
    since August 1998. Mr. Holmes served as our Vice President
    of Finance from June 1998 until August 1998 and as Vice
    President of Finance of our former parent company’s Solid
    Waste Group from January 1998 until June 1998. From 1987 to
    1998, Mr. Holmes served in various management positions
    with Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc., including Vice President,
    Investor Relations from 1996 to 1998, Divisional Vice President,
    Collection Operations from 1995 to 1996, Divisional Vice
    President and Regional Controller — Northern Region
    from 1993 to 1995, and Divisional Vice President and Assistant
    Corporate Controller from 1991 to 1993. Mr. Holmes has over
    22 years of experience in the solid waste industry.



Our regional senior vice presidents have an average of
    22 years of experience in the industry.



Continuing Merger Integration Strategy.On
    December 5, 2008 we completed our merger with Allied. We
    believe that our merger integration strategy is well underway,
    and we continue to believe this merger is different from
    historical attempts to consolidate the waste industry for a
    number of reasons, including the following:





•Two Mature Companies.Most previous attempts to
    consolidate the waste industry focused on a “roll up”
    strategy often involving relatively young companies solely
    focused on increasing revenue through acquisitions. Our merger
    with Allied involved two mature companies with similar business
    practices and performance metrics that have been developed and
    refined over the course of a number of years. We believe that
    the combination of our maturity and proven business practices
    and performance metrics has been a critical component of our
    success in 2009 and will be a critical component of our future
    success.



•Best Practices.Our merger also affords us the
    opportunity to select the best tools and systems and to adopt
    the best practices of two successful companies. Republic had a
    history of financial discipline evident in the consistent
    generation of increasing levels of free cash flow. Allied was
    noted for its integrated operations and focus on procurement. We
    believe that our merger has given us an unique opportunity to
    combine the strengths of these two successful organizations and
    create abest-in-classwaste management company.



•Timely and Focused Integration Process.We are
    acutely aware that previous acquisitions in the waste management
    and other industries failed because of a lack of focus on
    integration. As such, we began to develop our integration
    process and strategy in June 2008, long before our merger was
    consummated. Our process identified specific integration related
    tasks focused on all levels of the





organization, especially our individual business units. We
    engaged employees at all levels of the company to develop a
    detailed integration plan and to ensure that each of our
    employees understands their role in the process. The integration
    process is well underway and is ahead of schedule.





•Strong Operating Platform.The merger has created a
    company with a strong, national operating platform. The
    foundation of this platform is our large network of disposal
    sites. This disposal network provides us with a far stronger
    vertically integrated operating structure than either company
    would have been able to achieve on its own. We believe that our
    improved vertically integrated operations will be a key driver
    of our future profitability.



•Complementary Operations and Cultures.The overlay
    of our operating locations reflects another compelling attribute
    of our merger. Republic and Allied operated complementary
    geographies and shared very similar cultures that are centered
    on a commitment to providing “industry-leading solid waste
    and environmental services that exceed our customers’
    highest expectations.”



•Significant Synergies.Prior to the effective date
    of our merger with Allied, we identified $150 million of
    annual run-rate integration synergies. We also developed a
    detailed plan for realizing this goal that includes
    participation at all levels throughout the company from the
    drivers of our fleet of collection vehicles to our board of
    directors. This plan anticipated achieving $100 million of
    annual run-rate integration synergies by the end of fiscal 2009.
    As of December 31, 2009, we have already met our original
    goal of $150 million of run-rate synergies and have
    increased our total goal for annual run-rate synergies to
    $165 million to $175 million. We expect to achieve
    this goal by the end of 2010.



•Strong Capital Structure.Republic enjoys a strong
    capital structure and investment grade credit ratings
    post-merger. Our combination with Allied has created a company
    that produces substantial annual free cash flow. This strong
    cash producing characteristic will allow us to pursue our
    mission of increasing shareholder value by focusing on investing
    in our business, paying down our debt, funding dividends and
    reinstituting our share repurchase program.



Decentralized Management Structure.

day-to-day



Integrated Operations.We seek to achieve a
    high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from
    the point of collection through disposal. We expect that our
    fully integrated markets generally will have a lower cost of
    operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated
    markets. Through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and
    other market development activities, we create market-specific,
    integrated operations typically consisting of one or more
    collection companies, transfer stations and landfills. We
    consider acquiring companies that own or operate landfills with
    significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels
    of waste volume. We also seek to acquire solid waste collection
    companies in markets in which we own or operate landfills. In
    addition, we generate internal growth in our disposal operations
    by developing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills
    from time to time in markets in which we have





significant collection operations or in markets that we
    determine lack sufficient disposal capacity. During the years
    ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 68% and
    58%, respectively, of the total waste volume that we collected
    was disposed at landfill sites that we own or operate
    (internalization). This increase in internalization is due to a
    higher concentration of integrated hauling and landfill
    operations acquired in our merger with Allied. In a number of
    our larger markets, we and our competitors are required to take
    waste to government-controlled disposal facilities
    (flow-control). This provides us with an opportunity to
    effectively compete in these markets without investing in
    landfill capacity. Because we do not have landfill facilities or
    government-controlled disposal facilities for all markets in
    which we provide collection services, we believe that landfill
    and transfer station acquisitions, operating agreements, and
    market development give us the opportunity to increase our waste
    internalization rate and further integrate our operations. By
    further integrating operations in existing markets, we may be
    able to reduce our disposal costs.



Economies of Scale, Cost Efficiencies and Asset
    Utilization.



High Levels of Customer Satisfaction.We
    strive to provide the highest level of service to our customer
    base. Our policy is to periodically visit each commercial
    account to ensure customer satisfaction and to verify that we
    are providing the appropriate level of service. In addition to
    visiting existing customers, a salesperson develops a base of
    prospective customers within each market. We also have municipal
    marketing representatives in most service areas that are
    responsible for working with each municipality or community to
    which we provide residential service to ensure customer
    satisfaction. Additionally, the municipal representatives
    organize and drive the effort to obtain new or renew municipal
    contracts in their service areas.



Focus on Systems Utilization.We continue to
    invest in the integration and expansion of our information
    systems and technology platform. Our future platform will
    consist ofbest-in-classlegacy systems from both Republic and Allied. During 2009, we
    converted the entire company to a single payable and general
    ledger system. Additionally, we made significant progress in
    converting to a single operating system. We expect to complete
    our operating system conversion by the third quarter of 2010. In
    addition, during January 2010, we converted the entire company
    to a single payroll and human resource system. Our future
    technology related initiatives will include customer
    relationship management, billing, productivity and maintenance
    systems. We believe that the combination of these systems will
    prove to be a competitive advantage for our company.



For certain risks related to our operating strategy, see
    Item 1A.Risk Factors.





Growth
    Strategy



Our growth strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining
    market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal
    growth and acquisitions. We manage our growth strategy as
    follows:



Internal Growth.Our internal growth strategy
    focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining new
    commercial, municipal and industrial customers through our
    well-managed sales and marketing activities.





•Pricing Activities.We seek to secure price
    increases necessary to offset increased costs, to improve our
    operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our
    substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. During
    2009, we continued to secure broad-based price increases across
    all lines of our business to offset various escalating capital
    and operating costs. Price increases will remain a major
    component of our overall future operating strategy.



•Long-Term Contracts.We seek to obtain long-term
    contracts for collecting solid waste in markets with growing
    populations. These include exclusive franchise agreements with
    municipalities as well as commercial and industrial contracts.
    By obtaining such long-term agreements, we have the opportunity
    to grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the
    underlying population growth in these markets. We believe it is
    important to have secured exclusive, long-term franchise
    agreements in growing market areas. We believe that this
    positions us to experience internal growth rates that are
    generally higher than our industry’s overall growth rate.
    In addition, we believe that by securing a base of long-term
    recurring revenue in growing population markets, we are better
    able to protect our market position from competition and our
    business may be less susceptible to downturns in economic
    conditions.



•Sales and Marketing Activities.We seek to manage
    our sales and marketing activities to enable us to capitalize on
    our leading position in many of the markets in which we operate.
    We provide a National Accounts program in response to the needs
    of our national clients, centralizing services to effectively
    manage their needs, such as minimizing their procurement costs.
    We currently have approximately 1,000 sales and marketing
    employees in the field who are compensated using a commission
    structure that is focused on generating high levels of quality
    revenue. For the most part, these employees directly solicit
    business from existing and prospective commercial, industrial,
    municipal and residential customers. We emphasize our rate and
    cost structures when we train new and existing sales personnel.
    In addition, we utilize a customer relationship management
    system that assists our sales people in tracking leads. It also
    tracks renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and
    franchise contracts.



•Development Activities.We seek to identify
    opportunities to further our position as an integrated service
    provider in markets where we provide services for a portion of
    the waste stream. Where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits
    to build transfer stations, recycling facilities, and landfills
    that would provide vertically integrated waste services or
    expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites.
    Development projects, while generally less capital intensive
    than acquiring such projects, typically require extensive
    permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no
    assurance of success. We undertake development projects when we
    believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where
    reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available.



Acquisition Growth.We look to acquire
    businesses that complement our existing business platform. Our
    acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on privately held
    solid waste companies and the waste operations of municipal and
    other local governmental authorities. We believe that our
    ability to acquire privately held companies is enhanced by
    increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing
    capital requirements as a result of changes in solid waste
    regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit
    strategies for these privately held companies’ owners. We
    also seek to acquire operations and facilities from
    municipalities that are privatizing, as they seek to increase
    available capital and reduce risk. In addition, we will continue
    to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities
    that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies.
    In sum, our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on the
    following:



•acquiring privately held businesses that position us for growth
    in existing and new markets,•acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate,
    retaining local management, and







•acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are
    privatizing and from publicly owned companies that are divesting
    of assets.



We also seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and
    collection companies that operate in markets that we are already
    servicing in order to fully integrate our operations from
    collection to disposal. In addition, we have in the past and may
    continue in the future to exchange businesses with other solid
    waste companies if by doing so there is a net benefit to our
    business platform. These activities allow us to increase our
    revenue and market share, lower our cost of operations as a
    percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative facilities
    and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and economies of
    scale.



For certain risks related to our growth strategy, see
    Item 1A.Risk Factors.



Operations



Our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and
    disposal of non-hazardous solid waste.



Collection Services.We provide solid waste
    collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and
    residential customers through 376 collection companies. In 2009,
    76.9% of our revenue was derived from collection services.
    Within the collection line of business, 35% of our revenue is
    from services provided to municipal and residential customers,
    40% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 25%
    is from services provided to industrial and other customers.



Our residential collection operations involve the curbside
    collection of refuse from small containers into collection
    vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to
    landfills. Residential solid waste collection services are
    typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which
    we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us
    exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in
    their respective jurisdictions. These contracts or franchises
    usually range in duration from one to five years, although some
    of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer
    periods. Residential solid waste collection services may also be
    performed on a subscription basis, in which individual
    households contract directly with us. The fees received for
    subscription residential collection are based primarily on
    market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to
    the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. In general,
    subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in
    advance by the residential customers receiving the service.



In our commercial and industrial collection operations, we
    supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. We
    also rent compactors to large waste generators. Commercial
    collection services are generally performed under one- to
    three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by
    considerations such as market factors, collection frequency,
    type of equipment furnished, the type and volume or weight of
    the waste collected, transportation costs, the distance to the
    disposal facility, and the cost of disposal.



We also provide waste collection services to industrial and
    construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms
    ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. Our
    construction services are provided to the commercial
    construction and home building sectors. We collect the
    containers or compacted waste and transport the waste either to
    a landfill or a transfer station for disposal.



We also provide recycling services in certain markets in
    compliance with local laws or the terms of our franchise
    agreements. These services include the curbside collection of
    residential recyclable waste and the provision of a variety of
    recycling services to commercial and industrial customers.



Transfer and Disposal Services.We own or
    operate 223 transfer stations. We deposit waste at these
    transfer stations, as do other private haulers and municipal
    haulers, for compaction and transfer to trailers for transport
    to disposal sites or recycling facilities. In 2009, transfer and
    disposal services accounted for 18.9% of our revenue.



As of December 31, 2009, we owned or operated 192 active
    landfills, which had approximately 35,000 permitted acres and
    total available permitted and probable expansion disposal
    capacity of approximately 4.6 billion in-place cubic yards.
    The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change
    based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory
    authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in
    compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to
    successfully renew operating permits and obtain





expansion permits at our sites. Some of our landfills accept
    non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and
    contaminated soils.



Most of our active landfill sites have the potential for
    expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted
    acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal
    capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue
    an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste
    volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and
    likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy future disposal
    demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at
    certain of our landfills. However, we cannot assure you that all
    proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed.



We also have responsibility for 132 closed landfills, for which
    we have associated closure and post-closure obligations.



Landfill Gas and Renewable Energy
    Projects.During 2009, we brought eleven landfillgas-to-energyprojects on line, bringing our total number of such projects to
    74 or over one third of our active landfills. These projects
    consist of the following:



•51 electric generating plants powered by landfill gas,•14 medium Btu plants that provide landfill gas to industrial
    users,•6 high Btu plants that produce pipeline quality gas, and•3 projects that use landfill gas to power leachate evaporating
    equipment.



Our 51 electric projects generate 323 megawatts of electricity,
    enough to power approximately 192,000 homes. Our 23 other
    projects provide or process more than 58,000 square cubic
    feet per minute of gas, enough to heat almost 200,000 homes. The
    environmental benefit of all of our projects combined is the
    equivalent of removing nearly 4 million cars from the road.



During 2009, we also combined afirst-of-its-kindsolar technology with an existinggas-to-energysystem which turned our Tessman Road Landfill in
    San Antonio, Texas into a sustainable energy park. A closed
    portion of the landfill is now capped with a Solar Energy Cover,
    developed by Republic, which generates electricity for homes and
    businesses in the surrounding area. We expect to install a
    similar system at one or more of our landfills during 2010.



Many of our landfills that do not havegas-to-energyor renewable energy projects are capable of supporting such
    projects. As a result, we intend to bring several of these
    projects on line each year for many years to come.



Recycling Facilities and Other Services.We
    own or operate 78 materials recovery facilities and other
    recycling operations. These facilities sort recyclable paper,
    aluminum, glass and other materials. Most of these recyclable
    materials are internally collected by our residential collection
    operations. In some areas, we receive commercial and industrial
    solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable
    materials and non-recyclable waste. The recyclable materials are
    salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties, and the
    non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or incinerators.



Sales and
    Marketing



We seek to provide quality services that will enable us to
    maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. We derive our
    business from a broad customer base, which we believe will
    enable us to experience stable growth. We focus our marketing
    efforts on continuing and expanding our business with existing
    customers, as well as attracting new customers.



We employ approximately 1,000 sales and marketing employees. Our
    sales and marketing strategy is to provide high-quality,
    comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and
    disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. We
    target potential customers of all sizes, from small quantity
    generators to large “Fortune 500” companies and
    municipalities.





Most of our marketing activity is local in nature. However, we
    also provide a national accounts program in response to the
    needs of some of our national and regional customers. Our
    national accounts program is designed to provide the best total
    solution to our customers’ evolving waste management needs
    in an environmentally responsible manner. We partner with our
    national clients to reach their sustainability goals, optimize
    waste streams, balance equipment and service intervals, and
    provide customized reporting. The national accounts program
    centralizes services to effectively manage customer needs, while
    helping minimize procurement costs. With our extended geographic
    reach, our national accounts program effectively serves
    40 states and Puerto Rico. As industry leaders, our mission
    is to utilize our strengths and expertise to exceed customer
    expectations by consistently delivering the best national
    program available.



We generally do not change the trade names of the local
    businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not operate
    nationally under any one mark or trade name.



Customers



We provide services to a broad base of commercial, industrial,
    municipal and residential customers. No one customer has
    individually accounted for more than 5% of our consolidated
    revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last
    three years.



Competition



We operate in a highly competitive industry. Entry into our
    business and the ability to operate profitably in the industry
    require substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience.



Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from
    a few large, national publicly owned companies, including Waste
    Management, Inc., several regional publicly and privately owned
    solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately owned
    companies. In any given market, competitors may have larger
    operations and greater resources. In addition to national and
    regional firms and numerous local companies, we compete with
    municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal
    operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages
    due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing.



We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of
    price and the quality of our services. From time to time, our
    competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort
    to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal
    contract. Our ability to increase prices in certain markets may
    be impacted by the pricing policies of our competitors. This may
    have an impact on our future revenue and profitability.



Seasonality
    and Severe Weather



Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement
    or severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste
    collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding
    compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste,
    reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or
    delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
    other facilities.



Regulation



Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of
    federal, state and local requirements that regulate the
    environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use.
    Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals
    generally are required for landfills and transfer stations,
    certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and
    other facilities that we own or operate. These permits are
    subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in
    certain circumstances. Federal, state and local laws and
    regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water
    discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation,
    treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous
    waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the
    release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These
    laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with
    strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to
    revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain
    injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the case of
    violations, including





criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental Protection
    Agency (EPA) and various other federal, state and local
    authorities administer these regulations.



We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with
    applicable laws, regulations and permits. However, in the
    existing climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time
    to time we have been issued citations or notices from
    governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to
    expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various
    landfills and other facilities. We cannot assure you that
    citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite
    our regulatory compliance efforts. We have established final
    capping, closure, post-closure and remediation liabilities that
    we believe, based on currently available information, will be
    adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs.
    However, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed
    our reserves. Refer to the Contractual Obligations table within
    Item 7.“Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”contained elsewhere herein for further information.



Federal Regulation.The following summarizes
    the primary federal environmental and occupational health and
    safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and
    operations:



•The Solid Waste Disposal Act, including the Resource
    Conservation and Recovery Act(RCRA). RCRA establishes a
    framework for regulating the handling, transportation,
    treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous
    solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure
    the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills.



Subtitle D of RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the
    disposal of municipal solid waste. Regulations under Subtitle D
    currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management
    criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions,
    facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure
    and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards,
    groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action
    standards, many of which had not commonly been in effect or
    enforced in the past in connection with municipal solid waste
    landfills. Each state was required to submit to the EPA a permit
    program designed to implement Subtitle D regulations by
    April 9, 1993. All of the states in which we operate have
    implemented permit programs pursuant to RCRA and Subtitle D.
    These state permit programs may include landfill requirements
    which are more stringent than those of Subtitle D. Our failure
    to comply with the environmental requirements of federal, state
    and local authorities at any of our locations may lead to
    temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit.



All of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill
    development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed
    Subtitle D requirements. Operating and design criteria for
    existing operations have been modified to comply with these
    regulations. Compliance with Subtitle D regulations has resulted
    in increased costs and may in the future require substantial
    additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally
    associated with our waste management activities.



•The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
    Liability Act of 1980(CERCLA). CERCLA, among other things,
    provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release
    or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the
    environment. CERCLA may impose strict joint and several
    liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural
    resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties
    who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous
    substances were disposed of, parties who transported the
    hazardous substances to a site and parties who arranged for the
    disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. Under the
    authority of CERCLA and its implementing regulations, detailed
    requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and
    remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances
    have been or are threatened to be released into the environment.
    Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the existence or
    disposal of only “hazardous wastes,” but can also be
    based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700
    “substances” characterized by the EPA as
    “hazardous,” many of which are found in common
    household waste.



Among other things, CERCLA authorizes the federal government to
    investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances
    have been or are threatened to be released into the environment
    or to order (or offer an opportunity to) persons potentially
    liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so.





In addition, the EPA has established a National Priorities List
    of sites at which hazardous substances have been or are
    threatened to be released and which require investigation or
    cleanup.



CERCLA liability is strict liability. It can be founded upon the
    release or threatened release, even as a result of
    unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous
    substances, including very small quantities of such substances.
    Thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received
    hazardous waste, it is likely that hazardous substances have
    been deposited or “released” at landfills or other
    properties owned by third parties where we have transported to
    and disposed of waste or at our landfills or at other properties
    that we currently own or operate or may have owned or operated.
    Therefore, we could be liable under CERCLA for the cost of
    cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for
    damages to natural resources, even if those substances were
    deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them.
    The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very expensive. Given the
    difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment
    liability, such liability could have a material impact on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.





•The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972(the
    Clean Water Act). This act regulates the discharge of pollutants
    from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites,
    into streams, rivers and other waters of the United States.
    Point source runoff from our landfills and transfer stations
    that is discharged into surface waters must be covered by
    discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling
    and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, reduce the
    quantity of pollutants in those discharges. Storm water
    discharge regulations under the Clean Water Act require a permit
    for certain construction activities and discharges from
    industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our
    operations. If a landfill or transfer station discharges
    wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment
    works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by
    that treatment works. In addition, states may adopt groundwater
    protection programs under the Clean Water Act or the Safe
    Drinking Water Act that could affect solid waste landfills.
    Furthermore, development which alters or affects wetlands
    generally must be permitted prior to such development
    commencing, and permitting agencies may require mitigation.



•The Clean Air Act.The Clean Air Act imposes
    limitations on emissions from various sources, including
    landfills. In March 1996, the EPA promulgated regulations that
    require large municipal solid waste landfills to install
    landfill gas monitoring systems. These regulations apply to
    landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or
    modification on or after May 30, 1991, and, principally, to
    landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or
    more of municipal solid waste. The regulations apply whether the
    landfill is active or closed. The date by which each affected
    landfill is required to have a gas collection and control system
    installed and made operational varies depending on calculated
    emission rates at the landfill. Efforts to curtail the emission
    of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate
    change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent
    emission controls, with resulting capital or operating costs.
    See Item 1A.Risk Factors— “Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions
    could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we
    cannot yet estimate.” Many state regulatory agencies also
    currently require monitoring systems for the collection and
    control of certain landfill gas.



•The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970(OSHA). OSHA authorizes the Occupational Safety and
    Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor to
    promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A number of
    these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous
    chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities
    and operations.



State and Local Regulation.Each state in
    which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing
    solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most
    cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and
    liabilities for such matters. States also have adopted
    regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and
    closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties,
    municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar
    laws and regulations. Our facilities and operations are likely
    to be subject to these types of requirements. In addition, our
    solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected
    by the trend in many states toward requiring the development of
    solid waste reduction and recycling programs. For example,
    several states have enacted laws that require counties or
    municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through
    solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs,
    the volume of solid waste deposited in





landfills. Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the
    disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including
    yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires,
    lead-acid batteries, electronic wastes and household appliances,
    have been promulgated in several states and are being considered
    in others. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or
    encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also
    have been or are under consideration by the U.S. Congress
    and the EPA.



To construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one
    or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and
    land use approvals. These permits and approvals may be difficult
    and time-consuming to obtain and to operate in compliance with,
    are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens’
    groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to
    denial, modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing
    agency. In connection with our acquisition of existing
    landfills, we may be required to expend considerable time,
    effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into
    compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the
    permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.



Other Regulations.Many of our facilities own
    and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to
    store petroleum-based products. These tanks are generally
    subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that
    mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal,
    and that, in the event of leaks, require that polluted
    groundwater and soils be remediated. We believe that all of our
    underground storage tanks currently meet all applicable
    regulations. If underground storage tanks we own or operate
    leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage
    migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for
    damages to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating
    that issues of compliance with regulations related to
    underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on
    our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.



out-of-state



Liabilities Established for Landfill and Environmental
    Costs.We have established liabilities for landfill
    and environmental costs, which include landfill site final
    capping, closure and post-closure costs. We periodically
    reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions
    regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of
    Subtitle D of RCRA, and we adjust our rates used to expense
    final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based
    on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe
    that our liabilities recorded for such landfill and
    environmental expenditures are adequate. However, environmental
    laws may change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded
    liabilities will be adequate to cover requirements under
    existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future
    changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or
    adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us.



Liability
    Insurance and Bonding



The nature of our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities
    arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the
    environment. Such potential liabilities could involve, for
    example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property
    damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be
    held





responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of
    employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or
    property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or
    claims alleging negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning
    or performance of work. We could also be subject to fines and
    civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged
    violations of regulatory requirements. Because of the nature and
    scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed
    in environmental litigation can be significant. Our solid waste
    operations have third party environmental liability insurance
    with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations,
    subject to certain limitations and exclusions. However, we
    cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance
    would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major
    loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry
    excess environmental liability insurance should market
    conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs
    prohibitive.



We have general liability, vehicle liability, employment
    practices liability, pollution liability, directors and
    officers’ liability, workers’ compensation and
    employer’s liability coverage, as well as umbrella
    liability policies to provide excess coverage over the
    underlying limits contained in these primary policies. We also
    carry property insurance. Although we try to operate safely and
    prudently and we have, subject to limitations and exclusions,
    substantial liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we
    will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.



Our insurance programs for workers’ compensation, general
    liability, vehicle liability and employee-related health care
    benefits are effectively self-insured. Claims in excess of
    self-insurance levels are insured subject to the excess policy
    limits and exclusions. Accruals are based on claims filed and
    actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred
    but not reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance
    market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future,
    increased self-insurance retention levels and increased
    premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through
    higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in
    our self-insurance reserves and expense.



In the normal course of business, we post performance bonds,
    insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash or marketable
    securities deposits in connection with municipal residential
    collection contracts, the operation, closure or post-closure of
    landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and
    business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our
    performance. To date, we have satisfied financial responsibility
    requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or
    by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or
    surety bonds.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately
    31,000 full-time employees, approximately 27% of whom were
    covered by collective bargaining agreements. From time to time,
    our operating locations may experience union organizing efforts.
    We have not historically experienced any significant work
    stoppages. We currently have no disputes or bargaining
    circumstances that we believe could cause significant
    disruptions in our business. Our management believes that we
    have good relations with our employees.



Availability
    of Reports and Other Information



Our corporate website ishttp://www.republicservices.com.We make available on this website, free of charge, access to our
    Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-K,Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those
    materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
    15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. We make such
    materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically submit them to the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC). Our corporate website also contains our
    Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Charters of
    the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit
    Committee and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
    In addition, the SEC website ishttp://www.sec.gov.The SEC makes available on this website, free of charge,
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the
    SEC. Information on our website or the SEC website is not part
    of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under
    Item 5.05 of





Form 8-Kand applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules regarding
    amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics by posting this
    information on our website atwww.republicservices.com.



