ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are the second largest provider of services in the domestic non-hazardous solid waste industry as measured by revenue. We provide non-hazardous solid waste collection services for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through 332 collection operations in 38 states and Puerto Rico. We own or operate 195 transfer stations, 191 active solid waste landfills and 71 recycling centers. We also operate 69 landfill gas and renewable energy projects. We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1996. On December 5, 2008, we acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (Allied) in a stock-for-stock transaction for an aggregate purchase price of $12.1 billion, which included $5.4 billion of debt, at fair value.

Based on analysts’ reports and industry trade publications, we believe the United States non-hazardous solid waste services industry generates annual revenue of approximately $55 billion, of which approximately 60% is managed by publicly owned waste companies. We believe that we and one other public waste company generated in excess of 60% of the publicly owned companies’ total revenue.  Industry data also indicates that the non-hazardous waste industry in the United States remains fragmented as privately held companies and municipal and other local governmental authorities generate approximately 19% and 22%, respectively, of total industry revenue.  We believe growth in the solid waste industry historically has been linked primarily to growth in the overall economy, including the level of new household and business formation and changes in residential and commercial construction activity.

Our operations are national in scope, but the physical collection and disposal of waste is very much a local business and the dynamics and opportunities differ in each of our markets. By combining local operating management with standardized business practices, we drive greater overall operating efficiency across the company while maintaining day-to-day operating decisions at the local level, closest to the customer.

We manage our operations through three geographic operating regions that are also our reportable segments: East, Central and West. Each region is organized into several areas and each area contains multiple business units or operating locations. Each of our regions and substantially all our areas provide collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services. We believe this structure facilitates integrating our operations within each region, which is a critical component of our operating strategy. It also allows us to maximize the growth opportunities in each of our markets and to operate the business efficiently, while minimizing administrative overhead costs and maintaining effective controls and standards over operational and administrative matters, including financial reporting.  See Note 14,Segment Reporting, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of our operating segments.

During the fourth quarter of 2012, we restructured our field and corporate operations to create a more efficient and competitive company.  These changes included consolidating the regions from four to three, which resulted in a change to our reportable segments to those described above, and areas from 28 to 20, relocating office space and reducing administrative staffing levels.  We implemented this realignment to leverage our strong leadership team and organizational capabilities to refine how we operate.  We have not made any changes to the span of control at our business units, keeping the appropriate leadership focus and decision making closest to our customers.

Management Team

We believe we have one of the most experienced management teams in the solid waste industry.

Donald W. Slager became our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and remained our President on January 1, 2011, after having served as our President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) from the Allied acquisition in December 2008 until then.  In addition to his duties as CEO, Mr. Slager resumed the role of principal operating executive from November 2011 until August 2012. Prior to the Allied acquisition, Mr. Slager worked for Allied from 1992 through 2008 and served in various management positions, including President and COO from 2004 through 2008 and Executive Vice President and COO from 2003 to 2004. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Slager served as Senior Vice President, Operations. Mr. Slager held various management positions at Allied from 1992 to 2003, and was previously General Manager at National Waste Services, where he served in various management positions since 1985. Mr. Slager has over 32 years of experience in the solid waste industry. Mr. Slager has been a member of our Board of Directors since June 24, 2010.

Glenn A. Culpepper was elected Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer, effective on January 9, 2013.  Mr.









Culpepper has more than 30 years of broad-based financial experience. He joins Republic from Summit Materials, a leading business in the aggregates and building materials sector, where he has been Chief Financial Officer (CFO) for the last two years. Prior to that, Mr. Culpepper spent 21 years at CRH PLC, a large publicly-traded multinational construction materials company based in Dublin, Ireland, including two years as its principal financial officer and member of its board of directors, and 13 years as the CFO of its North American operations, Oldcastle Materials.  Prior to CRH, Mr. Culpepper held roles of increasing responsibility in audit, tax and mergers and acquisitions at Price Waterhouse.

Robert Boucher was named Executive Vice President, Operations in August 2012. Mr. Boucher joined us in June 2010 as the Area President for the Houston area and then served as Senior Vice President, Operations, Southern Region. Mr. Boucher has had a 20-year career in the waste industry, including serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of Synagro from 2002 to 2010. Before that, Mr. Boucher worked for Allied Waste Industries, Inc. from 1997 to 2002 in positions including District Manager and Regional Vice President. Mr. Boucher also worked for Waste Management from 1994 to 1997 and for American Waste Systems from 1989 to 1994. During this time, his many roles included Division Manager, Operations Manager, General Manager and Division President.  Mr. Boucher has over 23 years of experience in the solid waste industry.

Jeffrey A. Hughes was named Executive Vice President, Human Resources in December 2008. Before that, Mr. Hughes served as Senior Vice President, Eastern Region Operations for Allied from 2004 until the Allied acquisition in December 2008. Mr. Hughes served as Assistant Vice President of Operations Support for Allied from 1999 to 2004 and as a District Manager for Allied from 1988 to 1999. Mr. Hughes has over 25 years of experience in the solid waste industry.

Michael P. Rissman has served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2009. Previously, Mr. Rissman had served as acting General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from March 2009. Mr. Rissman joined Allied as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel in July 2007 and continued in the same positions at Republic following the Allied acquisition in December 2008. Prior to joining Allied, Mr. Rissman was a partner at Mayer Brown LLP, in Chicago, where he worked from 1990 until coming to Allied in 2007.

Our local management team has extensive industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid waste companies and has substantial experience in their local geographic markets. This allows us to quickly respond to and meet our customers’ needs and stay in touch with local businesses and municipalities. Each regional management team includes a regional president, vice president-controller, vice president of human resources, vice president of sales, vice president of operations support, director of safety, director of engineering and environmental management, and director of market planning and development. We believe that our strong regional management teams allow us to effectively and efficiently drive our initiatives and help ensure consistency throughout the organization. Our regional management teams and area presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and autonomy for operations within their respective geographic markets.  As a result of retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of and involvement in their local communities, we are proactive in anticipating customers’ needs and adjusting to changes in our markets. We also seek to implement the best practices of our various regions, areas and business units throughout our operations to continue improving operating margins.



Integrated Operations

We believe we have created a company with a strong, national operating platform. We seek to achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from the point of collection through processing or disposal. Our fully integrated markets generally have a lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated markets. Through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and other market development activities, we create market-specific, integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection operations, transfer stations and landfills. We also operate recycling centers in markets where diversion of waste is a priority and it is profitable to do so.  We consider acquiring companies that own or operate landfills with significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels of waste volumes.

We also seek to acquire solid waste collection operations in markets in which we own or operate landfills. In addition, we generate internal growth in our disposal operations by developing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills in markets in which we have significant collection operations or in markets that we determine lack sufficient disposal capacity. During the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 67% of the total waste volume that we collected was disposed at landfill sites that we own or operate (internalization). In a number of our larger markets, we and our competitors are required to take waste to government-controlled disposal facilities (flow control). This provides us with an opportunity to compete effectively in these markets without investing in landfill capacity.

Major Initiatives

Our initiatives are designed to deliver total waste stream solutions, including recycling, to our customers while creating sustainable economic value for our stockholders. We believe focusing on the following major initiatives will improve profitability and generate value for our stockholders:











Customer Experience



We strive to provide the highest level of customer service. Our policy is to periodically visit each commercial account to ensure customer service and satisfaction.  We also have municipal marketing representatives who are responsible for working with municipalities or communities to which we provide residential service to ensure customer satisfaction. Additionally, the municipal representatives organize and drive the effort to obtain new or renew municipal contracts in their service areas.

We will continue to exceed our customers’ expectations through consistently delivering high quality service and an expanded use of technology to make it easier to do business with us. Our technology eventually will allow more customers to access information and perform functions like changing service requests and making payments over the internet that were previously done with the assistance of a customer service representative. By increasing the ease of use and functionality of our web-based market presence, we believe we will enhance customer satisfaction and retention while we lower our costs.

Expansion of Recycling Capabilities

We believe approximately 35% of municipal solid waste is recycled.  Communities have increasingly committed to their residents to enhance and expand their recycling programs.  We continue to focus on innovative waste disposal processes and programs to help our customers achieve their goals related to sustainability and environmentally sound waste practices. We currently own or operate 71 recycling centers.  During 2012, we invested approximately $76 million on five recycling centers.  We will continue to look for opportunities to expand our recycling capabilities in markets where these services are desired and provide an appropriate return on our investment.

Fleet Automation

Through 2012, we have converted approximately 62% of our residential routes to automated single driver trucks.  By converting our residential routes to automated service, we believe we can more efficiently service our customers, improve driver safety, increase productivity and reduce labor costs. Additionally, communities using automated vehicles have higher participation rates in recycling programs, thereby complementing our initiative to expand our recycling capabilities.

Fleet Conversion to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG)

We currently operate 1,300 CNG vehicles out of our total 15,000 active vehicles.  We expect to continue our gradual fleet conversion to CNG, our preferred alternative fuel technology, as part of our ordinary annual fleet replacement process.  We believe a gradual fleet conversion is most prudent to realize the full value of our previous fleet investments.  Approximately 54% of our vehicle purchases during 2012 were vehicles fueled by CNG.  We believe using CNG vehicles provides us a competitive advantage in communities with strict clean emission objectives or initiatives that focus on protecting the environment.   Although upfront costs are higher, we expect that using natural gas will reduce our overall fleet operating costs through lower maintenance and fuel expenses.

Standardized Maintenance

We believe we operate the eighth largest vocational fleet in the United States.  As of December 31, 2012, our average fleet age in years, by line of business, was as follows:

Number of VehiclesAverage AgeResidential7,5006Commercial4,0006Industrial3,5009Total15,0007

We have historically spent approximately 5% of our revenue on fleet maintenance.  Through standardization of core functions, we believe we can minimize variability in our maintenance processes, resulting in higher vehicle quality and reliability and a safer, more efficient fleet with lower operating costs.  We have standardized maintenance programs for approximately 50% of our fleet maintenance operations through December 31, 2012.













Cash Utilization Strategy

Key components of our cash utilization strategy include generating and growing free cash flow and sustaining or improving our return on invested capital. Our definition of free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows. We believe that free cash flow is a driver of stockholder value and provides useful information regarding the recurring cash provided by our operations. Free cash flow also demonstrates our ability to execute our cash utilization strategy, which includes:



•internal growth and acquisitions,

•dividends,

•share repurchases, and

•strong capital structure.



We manage our free cash flow by ensuring that capital expenditures and operating asset levels are appropriate in light of our existing business and growth opportunities and by closely managing our working capital, which consists primarily of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued landfill and environmental costs.

Internal Growth and Acquisitions

Our growth strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining market share and enhancing stockholder value through internal growth in price and volume as well as through development activities, acquisitions and improving our operating margins. Within our markets, our goal is to deliver sustainable, long-term profitable growth while efficiently operating our assets to generate acceptable rates of return. We allocate capital to businesses, markets and development projects both to support growth and to achieve acceptable rates of return.  The key components of our growth strategy are:



Price Growth.We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, to improve our operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in vehicles, other equipment, landfills, transfer stations and recycling facilities.



Volume Growth.Growth through increases in our customer base and services provided is the most capital efficient means to grow our business. We seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting solid waste with exclusive franchise agreements with municipalities as well as commercial and industrial contracts. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we can grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the underlying population growth in these markets. In addition, by securing a base of long-term recurring revenue, we are better able to protect our market position from competition. We work to increase volumes while ensuring that prices charged for services provide an appropriate return on our capital investment.



Sales and Marketing Activities.We manage our sales and marketing activities to enable us to capitalize on our leading position in many of the markets in which we operate. While most of our marketing activity is local in nature, we also provide a National Accounts program in response to the needs of national and regional customers. This National Accounts program is designed to provide the best total solution to our customers’ evolving waste management needs in an environmentally responsible manner. We partner with national clients to reach their sustainability goals, optimize waste streams, balance equipment and service intervals, and provide customized reporting. The National Accounts program centralizes services to effectively manage customer needs, while helping minimize costs. With our extended geographic reach, this program effectively serves our customers nationwide. As an industry leader, our mission is to use our strengths and expertise to exceed customer expectations by consistently delivering the best national program available.



Development Activities.We seek to identify opportunities to further our position as an integrated service provider in markets where we are not fully integrated. Where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits to build transfer stations, recycling centers and landfills that would provide vertically integrated waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. Development projects, while generally less capital intensive than acquisitions, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. We undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available.

We continuously evaluate our existing operating assets and their deployment within each market to determine if we have optimized our position and to ensure appropriate investment of capital. Where operations are not generating acceptable returns, we examine opportunities to achieve greater efficiencies and returns through integrating additional assets. If such enhancements are not possible, we may ultimately decide to divest the existing assets and reallocate resources to other markets.









Acquisitions.Our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on acquiring privately held solid waste and recycling companies that complement our existing business platform. We believe our ability to acquire privately held companies is enhanced by increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing capital requirements due to changes in solid waste regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit strategies for privately held companies. In addition, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies.

Public-Private Partnerships.In addition to privately held solid waste and recycling companies, we also focus on the waste and recycling operations and facilities of municipal and other local governmental authorities for growth opportunities.  We believe our ability to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing is growing, as they increasingly seek to raise capital and reduce risk.

The consolidation of acquired businesses into existing operations, whether through acquisitions or public-private partnerships, reduces costs by decreasing capital and expenses used for truck routing, personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories and back-office administration.

Dividends

In July 2003, our board of directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.04 per share. Our quarterly dividend has increased from time to time thereafter, the latest increase occurring in the third quarter of 2012 to $0.235 per share, representing a compound annual growth rate since 2003 of approximately 22%. We expect to continue paying quarterly cash dividends and may consider additional dividend increases if we believe they will enhance stockholder value.

Share Repurchases

We have had a share repurchase program since November 2010. From November 2010 to December 31, 2012, we used $825.6 million to repurchase 29.0 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average cost per share of $28.49. We expect to use the remaining authorization, totaling $324.4 million, to repurchase outstanding shares during 2013.

Strong Capital Structure

Debt.Since our merger with Allied on December 5, 2008, we have refinanced $5,288.2 million in senior notes and $1,022.3 million in tax-exempt financings.  This reduced the average coupon rate on our senior notes and tax-exempt financings, on a weighted average basis, by more than 175 basis points while extending our debt maturities and giving greater stability to our capital structure.  As a result of the refinancing, our debt maturity profile is as follows:

20132014201520162017ThereafterCredit facilities$—$—$—$1,000.0$1,250.0$—Senior notes—————5,725.7Debentures—————200.5Tax-exempt financings11.311.34.825.05.21,040.3Total$11.3$11.3$4.8$1,025.0$1,255.2$6,966.5

Credit Ratings.A key component of our financial strategy includes maintaining investment grade ratings on our senior debt, which was rated BBB by Standard & Poor’s, BBB by Fitch and Baa3 by Moody’s as of December 31, 2012. Such ratings have allowed us, and should continue to allow us, to readily access capital markets at competitive rates.



Operations

Our operations primarily consist of providing collection, transfer and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste and recovering and recycling certain materials.

Collection Services.We provide solid waste collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through 332 collection operations. In 2012, 77% of our revenue was derived from collection services. Within the collection line of business, 35% of our revenue is from services provided to municipal and residential customers, 40% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 25% is from services provided to industrial (both permanent and temporary) and other customers.

Our residential collection operations involve the curbside collection of refuse from small containers into collection vehicles for transport to transfer stations, or directly to landfills or recycling centers. We typically perform residential solid waste collection services under contracts with municipalities, which we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us exclusive rights









to service all or a portion of the homes in the respective municipalities. These contracts or franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods.  We also perform residential solid waste collection services on a subscription basis, in which individual households contract directly with us. The fees received for subscription residential collection are based primarily on market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. In general, subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the service.

In our commercial and industrial collection operations, we supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. We also rent compactors to large waste generators. We typically perform commercial collection services under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined based on a number of factors including the market, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, transportation costs, and the cost of disposal.

We also provide waste collection services to industrial and construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. Our construction services are provided to the commercial construction and home building sectors. We collect the containers or compacted waste and transport the waste to either a transfer station or directly to a landfill for disposal.

We also provide recycling services based on our collection customers' requirements to complete our service offerings.

Transfer Services.We own or operate 195 transfer stations.  Revenue at transfer stations is primarily generated by charging tipping or disposal fees which accounted for 5% of our revenue during 2012. Our collection operations deposit waste at these transfer stations, as do other private and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to disposal sites or recycling centers. Transfer stations provide collection operations with a cost effective means to consolidate waste and reduce transportation costs while providing our landfill sites with an additional “gate” to extend their geographic reach.

Disposal Services.We own or operate 191 active landfills. We charge tipping fees to third parties, which accounted for 12% of our revenue during 2012.  As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 37,000 permitted acres and total available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of4.8 billionin-place cubic yards. The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to successfully renew operating permits and obtain expansion permits at our sites. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils.

Most of our active landfill sites have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and the likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at certain of our landfills. However, we cannot assure you that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed.

We also have responsibility for 128 closed landfills, for which we have associated closure and post-closure obligations.

Recycling Services.We own or operate 71 recycling centers. These facilities generate revenue through the collection, processing, and sale of old corrugated cardboard (OCC), old newspaper (ONP), aluminum, glass and other materials. Most of these recyclable materials are collected by our collection operations.



Changing market demand for recyclable materials causes volatility in commodity prices. At current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a ten dollar per ton change in the price of recyclable materials will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $29 million and $20 million, respectively, on an annual basis.

In certain instances we issue recycling rebates to municipalities or large industrial customers, which can be based on the price we receive upon the final sale of recyclable materials, a fixed contractual rate or other measures. We also receive rebates when we dispose of recyclable materials at third-party facilities.

Of the current waste stream, approximately 35% is recycled, and we believe that percentage is growing faster than the overall waste stream as more volumes are diverted from landfills.  As consumer demand for recycling services has increased, we have met that demand by integrating recycling components to each of our collection service offerings.  Our goal is to provide a complete waste stream management solution to our customers in an environmentally sustainable way.

Other Services.Other revenue consists primarily of National Accounts revenue generated from nationwide contracts in markets outside our operating areas, where the associated waste handling services are subcontracted to local operators. Thus, substantially all of this revenue is offset with related subcontract costs, which are recorded in cost of operations.









Customers

We provide services to a broad base of commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. No single customer has individually accounted for more than 3% of our consolidated revenue in any of the last three years.



Competition

Although we operate in a highly competitive industry, entry into our business and the ability to operate profitably require substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience. Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few other large, national publicly-owned companies, including Waste Management, Inc., several regional publicly- and privately-owned solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately-owned companies. In any given market, competitors may have larger operations and greater resources. In addition, we compete with municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing.

We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of our services. From time to time, our competitors reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal contract. Our ability to maintain and increase prices in certain markets may be impacted by our competitors’ pricing policies. This may have an impact on our future revenue and profitability.

Seasonality and Severe Weather

Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. Our operations also can be favorably affected by severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste in situations where we are able to charge for our additional services.

Regulation

Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate, among other things, the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use. Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals generally are required for landfills and transfer stations, certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that we own or operate. These permits are subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in certain circumstances. Federal, state and local laws and regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the event of violations, including criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and various other federal, state and local authorities administer these regulations.

We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and permits. However, from time to time we have been issued citations or notices from governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities or in the need to expend funds for fines, penalties or settlements. We cannot assure you that citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite our regulatory compliance efforts. We have established final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation reserves that we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs. However, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves.

Federal Regulation.The following summarizes the primary federal environmental and occupational health and safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and operations:



•The Solid Waste Disposal Act, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act(RCRA). RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills.

Subtitle D of RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the disposal of municipal solid waste. Regulations under Subtitle D currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action standards. All of the states in which we operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to RCRA and Subtitle D. These state permit programs may include









landfill requirements that are more stringent than those of Subtitle D. Our failure to comply with any of these environmental requirements at any of our locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit, which would result in costs in connection with securing new permits and reduced revenue from lost operational time.

All of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed Subtitle D requirements. Operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to comply with these regulations. Compliance with Subtitle D regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally associated with our waste management activities.





•

The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980

CERCLA liability is strict liability. It can be founded upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of such substances. Thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received hazardous substances, it is likely that hazardous substances have been deposited or “released” at landfills or other facilities that we presently or historically have owned or operated, or at properties owned by third parties to which we have transported waste. Therefore, we could be liable under CERCLA for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them. The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very expensive and can include the costs of disposing of hazardous substances at appropriately-licensed facilities. Given the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment liability, any such liability could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972(the Clean Water Act). This act regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the United States. Runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters through discrete conveyances must be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, to reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. Storm water discharge regulations under the Clean Water Act require a permit for certain construction activities and for runoff from industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our operations. If a landfill or transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by that treatment works. In addition, states may adopt groundwater protection programs under the Clean Water Act or the Safe Drinking Water Act that could affect the manner in which our landfills monitor and control their waste management activities. Furthermore, if development at any of our facilities alters or affects wetlands, we may be required to secure permits before such development starts. In these situations, permitting agencies may require mitigation of wetland impacts.



•The Clean Air Act.The Clean Air Act imposes limitations on emissions from various sources, including landfills. In March 1996, the EPA promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. These regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after May 30, 1991, and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. The regulations apply whether the landfills are active or closed. The date by which each affected landfill must have a gas collection and control system installed and made operational varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill. Efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. Many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. Certain of these state agencies are also implementing greenhouse gas control regulations that









would also apply to landfill gas emissions. See Item 1A,Risk Factors– “Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate,” in this Form 10-K.

In addition, our vehicle fleet also may become subject to higher efficiency standards or other carbon-emission restrictions. Over the past two years, EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) have adopted regulations mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions as a means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The regulations take the form of fuel economy standards. EPA and NHTSA have developed fuel economy standards in two vehicle categories: (1) conventional automobiles and light-duty trucks; and (2) heavy-duty tucks, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor trailers. We own and operate vehicles in both categories. For conventional automobiles and light-duty trucks, in May 2010 EPA and NHTSA finalized fuel economy standards for model years 2012 through 2016. In October 2011, EPA and NHTSA initiated a second round of rulemaking for conventional automobiles and pick-up trucks in model years 2017 through 2025. In August 2011, EPA and NHTSA finalized standards for heavy duty trucks, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor trailers, for model years 2014 through 2018. In issuing the fuel economy standards for heavy-duty trucks and tractor trailers, the government estimated the standards would increase the cost of the average tractor-trailer by approximately $6,200, but that the vehicle would save fuel costs over its operating life.



•The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970(OSHA). This act authorizes the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations.

State and Local Regulation.Each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. States also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. In addition, our operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring solid waste reduction and recycling programs. For example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries, electronic wastes and household appliances, have been adopted in several states and are being considered in others. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under consideration by the U.S. Congress and the EPA.

To construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals. These permits and approvals may be burdensome to obtain and to comply with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens’ groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to denial, modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. Significant compliance disclosure obligations often accompany these processes. In connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, we may be required to spend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.

Other Regulations.Many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to store petroleum-based products. These tanks are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal. In the event of leaks or releases from these tanks, these regulations require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. We believe that all of our underground storage tanks meet all applicable regulations. If underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for damages to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

With regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board and are regulated by the Federal Highway Administration, Office of Motor Carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that regulate such matters. Various state and local government authorities have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations that would restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county, or other jurisdictional lines. In 1978, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste is unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. In 1994, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its place of generation, imposes an impermissible burden upon interstate commerce and is unconstitutional. In 2007, however, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the right of a local government to direct the flow of solid waste to a publicly-owned and publicly-operated waste facility. A number









of county and other local jurisdictions have enacted ordinances or other regulations restricting the free movement of solid waste across jurisdictional boundaries. Other governments may enact similar regulations in the future. These regulations may cause a decline in volumes of waste delivered to our landfills or transfer stations and may increase our costs of disposal, thereby adversely affecting our operations and our financial results.

Liabilities Established for Landfill and Environmental Costs.We have established reserves for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. We periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of Subtitle D of RCRA, and we adjust our rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our recorded reserves for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate. However, environmental laws may change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. Refer to the Contractual Obligations table within Item 7,“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,”contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further information.

Liability Insurance and Bonding

The nature of our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the environment. Such potential liabilities could involve, for example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be held responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning or performance of work. We also could be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. Because of the nature and scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed in environmental litigation can be significant. Our solid waste operations have third party environmental liability insurance with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. However, we cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry excess environmental liability insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs prohibitive.

We maintain commercial general and auto liability, employment practices liability, environmental and remediation liability, directors and officers' liability, workers' compensation and employer's liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in these primary policies. We also carry property insurance. Although we try to operate safely and prudently and we have, subject to limitations and exclusions, substantial liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our insurance programs for workers' compensation, commercial general and auto liability,  environmental and remediation liability and employee-related health care benefits are either self-insured or subject to large deductible insurance policies. Claims in excess of self-insurance or deductible levels are insured subject to the excess policy limits and exclusions. Accruals are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased self-insurance or deductible retention levels and increased premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense.

In the normal course of business, we purchase performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash and marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, financial assurance for closure and post-closure of landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance. To date, we have satisfied financial responsibility requirements by making deposits in the form of cash or marketable securities or by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds.

Employees

We work to create and maintain an environment that attracts, develops and retains people who assure our success with customers, differentiate us from our competitors and allow us to be an employer of choice for top talent.  As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 30,000 full-time employees, approximately 26% of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Safety remains our highest priority for all of our employees and the communities we serve. Our long-standing commitment to safety is unwavering. We will continue to improve our driver safety training program and reward our people for operating in a safe and conscientious manner in all our lines of business.











Availability of Reports and Other Information

Our corporate website iswww.republicservices.com. We make available on that website, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, and amendments to those materials filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We make such materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit them to the SEC. Our corporate website also contains our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics, Political Contributions Policy, and Charters of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Management Development and Compensation Committee of the board of directors. In addition, the SEC website iswww.sec.gov. The SEC makes available on that website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. Information on our website or the SEC website is not part of this Form 10-K. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K and applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules regarding amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics by posting this information on our website atwww.republicservices.com.



