ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are the second largest provider of services in the domestic non-hazardous solid waste industry, as measured by revenue. We provide non-hazardous solid waste collection services for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through336collection operations in39states and Puerto Rico. We own or operate199transfer stations,190active solid waste landfills and69recycling centers. We also operate69landfill gas and renewable energy projects.  We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1996.

Based on an industry trade publication, the United States non-hazardous solid waste services industry generates annual revenue of approximately $55 billion, of which approximately 45% is recognized by publicly owned waste companies.  Industry data also indicates that the non-hazardous waste industry in the United States remains fragmented as privately held companies and municipal and other local governmental authorities generate approximately 35% and 20%, respectively, of total industry revenue.  We believe growth in the solid waste industry historically has been linked primarily to growth in the overall economy, including the level of new household and business formation and changes in residential and commercial construction activity.

Our operations are national in scope, but the physical collection and disposal of waste is very much a local business and the dynamics and opportunities differ in each of our markets. By combining local operating management with standardized business practices, we drive greater overall operating efficiency across the company while maintaining day-to-day operating decisions at the local level, closest to the customer.

We manage our operations through three geographic operating regions that are also our reportable segments: East, Central and West. Each region is organized into several areas and each area contains multiple business units or operating locations. Each of our regions and all of our operating areas provide collection, transfer, recycling and landfill services. We believe this structure facilitates integrating our operations within each region, which is a critical component of our operating strategy. It also allows us to maximize the growth opportunities in each of our markets and to operate the business efficiently, while minimizing administrative overhead costs and maintaining effective controls and standards over operational and administrative matters, including financial reporting.  See Note 14,Segment Reporting, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of our operating segments.

Our Core Priorities



Commitment to Safety



We are dedicated to the safety of our employees, our customers and the communities we serve.  OurThink, Choose, Liveslogan encapsulates our everyday safety messaging to our employees to:Thinkabout what you are doing,Choosethe safe answer, andLiveto go home to your family.  With the phrase printed on numerous items, including hard hats and equipment our employees touch, there are constant reminders for employees to go home in the same condition that they came to work.  Our goal is to ensure every one of our employees returns home safely each night.  As a leader in the waste industry, we implement initiatives to help all employees take ownership of safety:



•Focus 6 Program.Our Focus 6 Program provides employees with guidance, tips and techniques to prevent the six most common types of serious accidents - backing, intersections, rear collisions, roll over, employee and pedestrian. The training employees receive from Focus 6 is the foundation of the countless decisions they have to make every day to stay safe.



•Celebrate Safety Records.We believe good safety records are something to celebrate, and we take pride in recognizing employees and divisions that demonstrate a relentless commitment to safety.  Employees with the best driving records are eligible for the industry’s most prestigious award, EIA’s Driver of the Year.  Every year since 2009, Republic drivers have been awarded this distinguished safety honor.













•Educational Programs.  We have implemented an employee safety observation program that provides our employees with the tools to make safety a priority.  Approximately 95% of our management team has completed modules within this program.  Upon hire, our drivers also must complete a robust educational program, which approximately 85% of our drivers completed in 2013.



Commitment to Compliance



We also are dedicated to compliance. Compliance with laws and our policies and procedures is essential to our efforts to gain and keep the confidence and support of customers, regulatory and other governmental agencies, suppliers and the public. Most important, compliance is simply the right thing to do and is a critical part of the way we do business. Accordingly, we require all of our employees and independent contractors to comply with all applicable laws and rules, our Compliance Program and our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. We also require them to report any violation or illegal activity to us so that we may deal with it appropriately.



Commitment to Sustainability



We are devoted to delivering convenient, cost-effective waste and recycling solutions across our national network in a way that also minimizes strain on the planet’s resources.  We partner with our customers and communities to advance sustainable solutions for our planet.  Our commitment to sustainability can be seen in practice through our:

•expansion of recycling capabilities;

•operation of landfill gas and solar energy projects; and

•fleet conversion to compressed natural gas.



We have made, and continue to make, significant investments in high-impact areas of our business to provide meaningful improvement in environmental, economic, and social conditions. These investments demonstrate our commitment to sustainability, while creating tangible value for our shareholders.

Customer Experience



We strive to provide the highest level of customer service. This means placing the focus squarely on our customers by listening and responding as well as anticipating their wants and needs.  We then determine how to best meet our customers' expectations by delivering and implementing superior, customized solutions.  We frequently visit customers to ensure customer service and satisfaction, and confirm their expectations are being met.  We also have municipal marketing representatives who are responsible for working with municipalities or communities to which we provide residential service.



The expanded use of technology is one of the ways in which we intend to continue to meet our customers’ expectations.  We desire to make it easy and seamless for our customers to do business with us. For example, in the near future our technology will allow more customers to access information and perform functions, such as changing or making service requests and interacting with customer service representatives, online. By increasing the ease of use and functionality of our web-based market presence, we believe we will enhance customer satisfaction and retention while we lower our costs.



Commitment to People

Training and developing our people is a priority. We aspire to be a company where the best people want to work and are committed to doing their best work every day. We work to create and maintain an environment that attracts, develops and retains people who assure our success with customers, differentiate us from our competitors and allow us to be an employer of choice for top talent.  As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 31,000 full-time employees, approximately26%of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements.



Creating Shareholder Value



We are committed to creating long-term shareholder value by generating consistent earnings and cash flow growth, while continually improving returns on invested capital. Our incentive compensation programs are aligned with these objectives at all levels of management. We value regular communication and interaction with our stockholders, and regularly participate in investor meetings and conferences.









Management Team

We believe we have one of the most experienced management teams in the solid waste industry.

Donald W. Slagerbecame our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and remained our President on January 1, 2011, after having served as our President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) from the Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (Allied) acquisition in December 2008 until then.  In addition to his duties as CEO, Mr. Slager resumed the role of principal operating executive from November 2011 until August 2012 and beginning October 2013 to the present. Prior to the Allied acquisition, Mr. Slager worked for Allied from 1992 through 2008 and served in various management positions, including President and COO from 2004 through 2008 and Executive Vice President and COO from 2003 to 2004. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Slager served as Senior Vice President, Operations. Mr. Slager held various management positions at Allied from 1992 to 2003, and was previously General Manager at National Waste Services, where he served in various management positions since 1985. Mr. Slager has over 33 years of experience in the solid waste industry. Mr. Slager has been a member of our Board of Directors since June 24, 2010.

Glenn A. Culpepperwas elected Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer (CFO), in January 2013.  Mr. Culpepper has more than 30 years of broad-based financial experience. He joined Republic from Summit Materials, a leading business in the aggregates and building materials sector, where he had been CFO for the last two years. Prior to that, Mr. Culpepper spent 21 years at CRH PLC, a large publicly-traded multinational construction materials company based in Dublin, Ireland, including two years as its principal financial officer and member of its board of directors, and 13 years as the CFO of its North American operations, Oldcastle Materials.  Prior to CRH, Mr. Culpepper held roles of increasing responsibility in audit, tax and mergers and acquisitions at Price Waterhouse.

Jeffrey A. Hugheswas named Executive Vice President, Human Resources in December 2008. Before that, Mr. Hughes served as Senior Vice President, Eastern Region Operations for Allied from 2004 until the Allied acquisition in December 2008. Mr. Hughes served as Assistant Vice President of Operations Support for Allied from 1999 to 2004 and as a District Manager for Allied from 1988 to 1999. Mr. Hughes has over 26 years of experience in the solid waste industry.

Michael P. Rissmanhas served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2009. Previously, Mr. Rissman had served as acting General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from March 2009. Mr. Rissman joined Allied as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel in July 2007 and continued in the same positions at Republic following the Allied acquisition in December 2008. Prior to joining Allied, Mr. Rissman was a partner at Mayer Brown LLP in Chicago, where he worked from 1990 until coming to Allied.

Our local management teams have extensive industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid waste companies and have substantial experience in their local geographic markets. This allows us to quickly respond to and meet our customers’ needs and stay in touch with local businesses and municipalities. Each regional management team includes a region president, vice president, vice president-controller, vice president of human resources, vice president of sales, vice president of operations support, director of safety, director of engineering and environmental management, and director of market planning and development. We believe our strong regional management teams allow us to effectively and efficiently drive our initiatives and help ensure consistency throughout the organization. Our regional management teams and area presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and autonomy for operations within their respective geographic markets.  As a result of retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of, and involvement in, their local communities, we are proactive in anticipating customers’ needs and adjusting to changes in our markets. We also seek to implement the best practices of our various regions, areas and business units throughout our operations to continue improving our operations and our operating margins.



Integrated Operations

We believe we have created a company with a strong, national operating platform that allows us to compete more effectively and efficiently in the local markets in which we operate. We seek to achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from the point of collection through processing or disposal.  During the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately68%of the total waste volume we collected was disposed at landfills we own or operate (internalization).  Our fully integrated markets generally have a lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated markets. Through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and other market development activities, we create market-specific, integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection operations, transfer stations and landfills. We also operate recycling centers in markets where diversion of waste is a priority and it is profitable to do so.









Growth Initiatives

Our growth initiatives are designed to deliver total waste stream solutions to our customers while creating sustainable economic value for our stockholders. We believe focusing on the following growth initiatives will improve profitability and generate value for our stockholders:

Internal Growth

Within our markets, our goal is to deliver sustainable, long-term profitable growth while efficiently operating our assets to generate acceptable rates of return. We allocate capital to businesses, markets and development projects both to support growth and to achieve acceptable rates of return.  The key components of our internal growth strategy are:



Price Growth.We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, to improve our operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in vehicles, equipment, landfills, transfer stations and recycling facilities.



Volume Growth.We believe waste volumes are driven by population growth, household formation and new business formation.  Volume growth through increases in our customer base and service offerings is the most capital efficient method to grow our business. We seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting solid waste under residential collection contracts with municipalities, exclusive franchise agreements, as well as commercial and industrial contracts. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we can grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the underlying population growth in these markets. In addition, by securing a base of long-term recurring revenue, we are better able to protect our market position from competition. We work to increase volumes while ensuring that prices charged for services provide an appropriate return on our capital investment.



Sales and Marketing Activities and National Accounts.We manage our sales and marketing activities to enable us to capitalize on our leading position in many of the markets in which we operate. While most of our marketing activity is local in nature, we also employ a National Accounts selling organization in response to the needs of national and regional customers. The National Accounts team is designed to provide the best total solution to our customers’ evolving waste management needs in an environmentally responsible manner. We partner with national clients to reach their sustainability goals, optimize waste streams, balance equipment and service intervals, and provide customized reporting. The National Accounts team centralizes certain services like customer support and billing to effectively manage customer needs, while helping minimize costs. With our extended geographic reach, this team effectively serves our customers nationwide.



Acquisitions and Public-Private Partnerships

Our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on acquiring privately held solid waste and recycling companies that complement our existing business platform. We believe our ability to acquire privately held companies is enhanced by increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing capital requirements due to changes in solid waste regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit strategies for privately held companies. We also will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies.  We expect to maintain a steady pace of acquisition investment of approximately $100 million annually.

We also focus on the waste and recycling operations and facilities of municipal and other local governmental authorities for growth opportunities.  We believe our ability to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing is growing, as they increasingly seek to raise capital and reduce risk.

The consolidation of acquired businesses into existing operations, whether through acquisitions or public-private partnerships, reduces costs by decreasing capital and expenses used for truck routing, personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories and back-office administration.

Expansion of Recycling Capabilities

We believe approximately 26% of municipal solid waste is recycled.  Communities have increasingly committed to their residents to enhance and expand their recycling programs.  We continue to focus on innovative waste disposal processes and programs to help our customers achieve their goals related to sustainability and environmentally sound waste practices. We currently own or operate69recycling centers.  During 2013, we invested approximately $30 million to develop and upgrade our recycling centers.  We will continue to look for opportunities to expand our recycling capabilities in markets where these services are desired and provide an appropriate return on our investment.









Development Activities



We seek to identify opportunities to further our position as an integrated service provider in markets where we are not fully integrated. Where appropriate, we obtain permits to build transfer stations, recycling centers and landfills that would vertically integrate our waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. Development projects, while generally less capital intensive than acquisitions, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. We undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available.

We continuously evaluate our existing operating assets and their deployment within each market to determine if we have optimized our position and to ensure appropriate return on investment of capital. Where operations are not generating acceptable returns, we examine opportunities to achieve greater efficiencies and returns through integrating additional assets. If such enhancements are not possible, we may ultimately decide to divest the existing assets and reallocate resources to other markets.

Cost Control Initiatives

Our cost control initiatives are designed to deliver the best service possible to our customers in the most efficient, productive and environmentally sound way possible.

Fleet Automation

Approximately 66% of our residential routes have been converted to automated single driver trucks.  By converting our residential routes to automated service, we reduce labor costs, improve driver productivity and create a safer work environment for our employees. Additionally, communities using automated vehicles have higher participation rates in recycling programs, thereby complementing our initiative to expand our recycling capabilities.

Fleet Conversion to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG)

Approximately 12% of our fleet operates on natural gas.  We expect to continue our gradual fleet conversion to CNG, our preferred alternative fuel technology, as part of our ordinary annual fleet replacement process.  We believe a gradual fleet conversion is most prudent to realize the full value of our previous fleet investments.  Approximately 50% of our replacement vehicle purchases during 2013 were CNG vehicles.  We believe using CNG vehicles provides us a competitive advantage in communities with strict clean emission objectives or initiatives that focus on protecting the environment.   Although upfront costs are higher, we expect that using natural gas will reduce our overall fleet operating costs through lower fuel expenses.

Standardized Maintenance

Based on an industry trade publication, we operate the eighth largest vocational fleet in the United States.  As of December 31, 2013, our average fleet age in years, by line of business, was as follows:

Approximate Number of VehiclesAverage AgeResidential7,6007Commercial4,3006Industrial3,6009Total15,5007

Through standardization of core functions, we believe we can minimize variability in our maintenance processes resulting in higher vehicle quality while extending the service life of our fleet.  We believe operating a more reliable, safer and efficient fleet will lower our operating costs.  We have completed implementation of standardized maintenance programs for approximately 45% of our fleet maintenance operations as of December 31, 2013.

Cash Utilization Strategy

Key components of our cash utilization strategy include increasing free cash flow and improving our return on invested capital.  Our definition of free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows. For a discussion and reconciliation of free cash flow, you should read the "Free Cash Flow" section of ourManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationscontained in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.









We believe free cash flow drives shareholder value and provides useful information regarding the recurring cash provided by our operations. Free cash flow also demonstrates our ability to execute our cash utilization strategy, which includes investments in acquisitions and returning a majority of free cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.  We are committed to an efficient capital structure and maintaining our investment grade rating.



We manage our free cash flow by ensuring that capital expenditures and operating asset levels are appropriate in light of our existing business and growth opportunities, as well as by closely managing our working capital, which consists primarily of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued landfill and environmental costs.

Dividends

In July 2003, our board of directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.04 per share. Our quarterly dividend has increased from time to time thereafter, the latest increase occurring in July 2013 to $0.26 per share, representing a compound annual growth rate since 2003 of 20.6%, and a 10.6% increase over that of the prior year.  We expect to continue paying quarterly cash dividends and may consider additional dividend increases if we believe they will enhance stockholder value.

Share Repurchases

We have had a share repurchase program since November 2010. From November 2010 to December 31, 2013, we used $1,039.2 millionto repurchase35.5 millionshares of our common stock at a weighted average cost per share of$29.30.  In October  2013, the board of directors added $650 million to the existing share repurchase authorization.  As of December 31, 2013, there was $760.6 million remaining under our share repurchase authorization.  During 2014, we expect to use approximately $400 million of our authorization to repurchase our outstanding shares of common stock.

Strong Capital Structure

Since our merger with Allied on December 5, 2008, we have refinanced $5,288.2 million in senior notes and $1,206.2 million in tax-exempt financings.  This reduced the average coupon rate on our senior notes and tax-exempt financings, on a weighted average basis, by more than 175 basis points while extending our debt maturities and giving greater stability to our capital structure.  As a result of the refinancing, our debt maturity and revolver capacity profile is as follows:20142015201620172018ThereafterCredit facilities$—$—$1,000.0$1,250.0$—$—Senior notes————700.05,025.7Debentures—————200.5Tax-exempt financings11.34.8———1,071.6Total$11.3$4.8$1,000.0$1,250.0$700.0$6,297.8

A key component of our financial strategy includes maintaining investment grade ratings on our senior debt, which was rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, BBB by Fitch and Baa3 by Moody’s as of December 31, 2013.  Such ratings have allowed us, and should continue to allow us, to readily access capital markets at competitive rates.



Operations

Our operations primarily consist of providing collection, transfer and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste and recovering and recycling certain materials.

Collection Services.We provide solid waste collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through336collection operations. In 2013,77%of our revenue was derived from collection services. Within the collection line of business,34%of our revenue is from services provided to municipal and residential customers,40%is from services provided to commercial customers and26%is from services provided to industrial (both permanent and temporary) and other customers.









Our residential collection operations involve the curbside collection of refuse from small containers into collection vehicles for transport to transfer stations, or directly to landfills or recycling centers. We typically perform residential solid waste collection services under contracts with municipalities, which we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in the respective municipalities. These contracts or franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods.  We also perform residential solid waste collection services on a subscription basis, in which individual households contract directly with us. The fees received for subscription residential collection are based primarily on market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. In general, subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the service.

In our commercial and industrial collection operations, we supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. We also rent compactors to large waste generators. We typically perform commercial collection services under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined based on a number of factors including the market, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, transportation costs, and the cost of disposal.

We also provide waste collection services to industrial and construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. Our construction services are provided to the commercial construction and home building sectors. We collect the containers or compacted waste and transport the waste to either a transfer station or directly to a landfill for disposal.

We also provide recycling services based on our collection customers' requirements to complete our service offerings.

Transfer Services.We own or operate199transfer stations.  Revenue at transfer stations is primarily generated by charging tipping or disposal fees, which accounted for approximately5%of our revenue during 2013. Our collection operations deposit waste at these transfer stations, as do other private and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to disposal sites or recycling centers. Transfer stations provide collection operations with a cost effective means to consolidate waste and reduce transportation costs while providing our landfills with an additional "gate" to extend their geographic reach.

When our own collection operations use our transfer stations, this improves internalization by allowing us to retain fees we would otherwise pay to third-party disposal sites.  It also allows us to manage costs associated with waste disposal because:  (1) transfer trucks have larger capacities than collection trucks, allowing us to deliver more waste to the landfill in each trip; (2) waste is accumulated and compacted at strategically located transfer stations to increase efficiency; and (3) we can retain volume by managing the waste to one of our own landfills rather than to a competitor’s.

Landfill Services.We own or operate190active landfills. We charge tipping fees to third parties, which accounted for approximately12%of our revenue during 2013.  As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 37,000 permitted acres and total available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of4.9 billionin-place cubic yards. The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to successfully renew operating permits and obtain expansion permits at our sites. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils.

Most of our active landfill sites have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and the likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at certain of our landfills; however, we cannot assure you that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed.

We also have responsibility for124closed landfills, for which we have associated closure and post-closure obligations.

Recycling Services.We own or operate69recycling centers. These facilities generate revenue through the processing and sale of old corrugated cardboard (OCC), old newspaper (ONP), aluminum, glass and other materials, which accounted for approximately4%of our revenue during 2013.  Approximately 70% of our recycling center volume relates to OCC, ONP and other mixed paper.  Of the 4.7 million tons we sold during 2013, 2.2 million moved through our recycling centers and 2.5 million we collected and delivered to third parties.



Changing market demand for recyclable materials causes volatility in commodity prices. At current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recyclable materials will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately$31 millionand$19 million, respectively.









In certain instances we issue recycling rebates to municipalities or large industrial customers, which can be based on the price we receive upon the final sale of recyclable materials, a fixed contractual rate or other measures. We also receive rebates when we dispose of recyclable materials at third-party facilities.

As consumer demand for recycling services has increased, we have met that demand by integrating recycling components to each of our collection service offerings.  Our goal is to provide a complete waste stream management solution to our customers in an environmentally sustainable way.

We continue to invest in proven technologies to control costs and to simplify and streamline recycling for our customers.  For example, advanced sorting equipment, such as disk screens, magnets and optical sorters, identifies and separates different kinds of paper, metals, plastics and other materials to increase efficiency and maximize our recycling efforts.

Other Services.Other revenue consists primarily of National Accounts revenue generated from nationwide contracts in markets outside our operating areas, where the associated waste handling services are subcontracted to local operators. Thus, substantially all of this revenue is offset with related subcontract costs, which are recorded in cost of operations.



Competition

We operate in an intensely competitive industry. Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few other large, national publicly-owned companies, several regional publicly- and privately-owned solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately-owned companies. In any given market, competitors may have larger operations and greater resources. In addition, we compete with municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing.

We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of our services. From time to time, our competitors reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal contract. Our ability to maintain and increase prices in certain markets may be impacted by our competitors’ pricing policies. This may have an impact on our future revenue and profitability.

Seasonality and Severe Weather



Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months, primarily due to higher volumes of construction and demolition waste.  The volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions also tend to increase during the summer months.  Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect this seasonality.

Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. Our operations also can be favorably affected by severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste in situations where we are able to charge for our additional services.

Regulation

Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate, among other things, the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use. Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals generally are required for landfills and transfer stations, certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that we own or operate. These permits are subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in certain circumstances. Federal, state and local laws and regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the event of violations, including criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and various other federal, state and local authorities administer these regulations.

We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and permits. However, from time to time we have been issued citations or notices from governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities or in the need to expend funds for fines, penalties or settlements. We cannot assure you that citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite our strong regulatory compliance efforts. We have established final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation reserves that we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs; however, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves.









Federal Regulation.The following summarizes the primary federal environmental and occupational health and safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and operations:



•The Solid Waste Disposal Act, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act(RCRA). RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills.

Subtitle D of RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the disposal of municipal solid waste. Regulations under Subtitle D currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action standards. All of the states in which we operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to RCRA and Subtitle D. These state permit programs may include landfill requirements that are more stringent than those of Subtitle D. Our failure to comply with any of these environmental requirements at any of our locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit, which would result in costs in connection with securing new permits and reduced revenue from lost operational time.

All of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed Subtitle D requirements. Operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to comply with these regulations. Compliance with Subtitle D regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally associated with our waste management activities.





•

The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980

CERCLA liability is strict liability. It can be founded upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of such substances. Thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received hazardous substances, it is likely that hazardous substances have been deposited or “released” at landfills or other facilities that we presently or historically have owned or operated, or at properties owned by third parties to which we have transported waste. Therefore, we could be liable under CERCLA for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them. The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very expensive and can include the costs of disposing of hazardous substances at appropriately-licensed facilities. Given the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment liability, any such liability could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.













•The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972(the Clean Water Act). This act regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the United States. Runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters through discrete conveyances must be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, to reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. Storm water discharge regulations under the Clean Water Act require a permit for certain construction activities and for runoff from industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our operations. If a landfill or transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by that treatment works. In addition, states may adopt groundwater protection programs under the Clean Water Act or the Safe Drinking Water Act that could affect the manner in which our landfills monitor and control their waste management activities. Furthermore, if development at any of our facilities alters or affects wetlands, we may be required to secure permits before such development starts. In these situations, permitting agencies may require mitigation of wetland impacts.



•The Clean Air Act.The Clean Air Act imposes limitations on emissions from various sources, including landfills. In March 1996, the EPA promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. These regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after May 30, 1991, and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. The regulations apply whether the landfills are active or closed. The date by which each affected landfill must have a gas collection and control system installed and made operational varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill. Efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. Many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. Certain of these state agencies are also implementing greenhouse gas control regulations that would also apply to landfill gas emissions. See Item 1A,Risk Factors– “Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate,” in this Form 10-K.

In addition, our vehicle fleet also may become subject to higher efficiency standards or other carbon-emission restrictions. Over the past two years, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) have adopted regulations mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions as a means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The regulations take the form of fuel economy standards. The EPA and the NHTSA have developed fuel economy standards in two vehicle categories: (1) conventional automobiles and light-duty trucks; and (2) heavy-duty tucks, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor trailers. We own and operate vehicles in both categories. For conventional automobiles and light-duty trucks, in May 2010 the EPA and the NHTSA finalized fuel economy standards for model years 2012 through 2016. In October 2011, the EPA and the NHTSA initiated a second round of rulemaking for conventional automobiles and pick-up trucks in model years 2017 through 2025. In August 2011, the EPA and the NHTSA finalized standards for heavy-duty trucks, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor trailers, for model years 2014 through 2018. In issuing the fuel economy standards for heavy-duty trucks and tractor trailers, the government estimated the standards would increase the cost of the average tractor-trailer by approximately $6,200, but that the vehicle would save fuel costs over its operating life.



•The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970(OSHA). This act authorizes the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations.

State and Local Regulation.Each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. States also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. In addition, our operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring solid waste reduction and recycling programs. For example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries, electronic wastes and household appliances, have been adopted in several states and are being considered in others. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been considered, or are under consideration by, the U.S. Congress and the EPA.









To construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals. These permits and approvals may be burdensome to obtain and to comply with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens’ groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to denial, modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. Significant compliance disclosure obligations often accompany these processes. In connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, we may be required to spend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.

Other Regulations.Many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to store petroleum-based products. These tanks are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal. In the event of leaks or releases from these tanks, these regulations require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. We believe that all of our underground storage tanks meet all applicable regulations. If underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for damages to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Liabilities Established for Landfill and Environmental Costs.We have established reserves for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. We periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of Subtitle D of RCRA, and we adjust our rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our recorded reserves for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate; however, environmental laws may change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. Refer to the"Contractual Obligations"section of ourManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationscontained in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for further information.

Liability Insurance and Bonding

The nature of our business exposes us to the possible risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including damages to the environment, property, employees or the general public.  Although we focus on operating safely and prudently, we occasionally receive claims, alleging damages, negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning or performance of work, which resulted in harm to the environment, property, employees or the general public.  These liabilities can be significant.  We also could be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements.  We maintain various policies of insurance that, subject to limitations, exclusions, deductibles or self insurance, provide coverage for these types of claims.  While we believe the amount of insurance is appropriate for our type of business, we can neither assure you that such insurance would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major loss, nor that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  We also cannot assure you that we would continue to maintain the insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage cost prohibitive.

Accruals for self insurance or deductibles are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased self-insurance or deductible retention levels and increased premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense.









In the normal course of business, we also purchase surety bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit, or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, financial assurance for closure and post-closure of landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance.

Availability of Reports and Other Information

Our corporate website iswww.republicservices.com. We make available on that website, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, and amendments to those materials filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We make such materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit them to the SEC. Our corporate website also contains our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics, Political Contributions Policy, and Charters of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Management Development and Compensation Committee of the board of directors. In addition, the SEC website iswww.sec.gov. The SEC makes available on that website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. Information on our website or the SEC website is not part of this Form 10-K. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K and applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules regarding amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics by posting this information on our website atwww.republicservices.com.



