ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



Overview



We are the second largest provider of services in the domestic
    non-hazardous solid waste industry as measured by revenue. We
    provide non-hazardous solid waste collection services for
    commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers
    through 348 collection companies in 40 states and Puerto
    Rico. We own or operate 204 transfer stations, 193 active solid
    waste landfills and 76 recycling facilities. We also operate
    73 landfill gas and renewable energy projects. We were
    incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1996.



Based on analysts’ reports and industry trade publications,
    we believe that the United States non-hazardous solid waste
    services industry generates annual revenue of approximately
    $54 billion, of which approximately 60% is generated by
    publicly owned waste companies. We believe that we and one other
    public waste company generated in excess of 60% of the publicly
    owned companies’ total revenue. Additionally, industry data
    indicates that the non-hazardous waste industry in the United
    States remains fragmented as privately held companies and
    municipal and other local governmental authorities generate
    approximately 17% and 23%, respectively, of total industry
    revenue. In general, growth in the solid waste industry is
    linked to growth in the overall economy, including the level of
    new household and business formation and changes in residential
    and commercial construction activity.



day-to-day

Segment Reporting,

Form 10-K



On December 5, 2008, we acquired all the issued and
    outstanding shares of Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (Allied) in
    astock-for-stocktransaction for an aggregate purchase price of
    $12.1 billion, which included $5.4 billion of debt, at
    fair value. The acquisition created a company with a strong,
    national operating platform. The foundation of this platform is
    our large network of disposal sites, which provides us with a
    far stronger vertically integrated operating structure than
    either company would have been able to achieve on its own. We
    believe that our improved vertically integrated operations will
    be a key driver of our future profitability.



We had revenue of $8.1 billion, $8.2 billion and
    $3.7 billion and operating income of $1.5 billion,
    $1.6 billion and $0.3 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition
    to the Allied acquisition, a number of items impacted our 2010,
    2009 and 2008 financial results. For a description of these
    items, see Item 7,Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Overview and Consolidated Results of
    Operations,included elsewhere in thisForm 10-K.





During the past several years, we supported our internal growth
    strategy with our presence in markets with higher than average
    population growth. We believe our presence in these markets
    positions us to experience growth at rates that are generally
    higher than those of declining population growth.



We continue to focus on enhancing stockholder value by
    implementing our operating and financial strategies. To ensure
    that our goals relative to these strategies are achieved, we
    have developed and implemented incentive programs that help
    focus our entire company on realizing key performance metrics,
    including increasing free cash flow, achieving targeted
    earnings, maintaining and improving returns on invested capital,
    and maintaining the integration synergies we have achieved. Our
    operating and financial strategies are described further herein.



Operating
    Strategy



We seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to
    increase operating margins and enhance stockholder value. Our
    operating strategy for accomplishing this goal includes the
    following:



•using the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our
    executive management team,•using a decentralized management structure in overseeingday-to-dayoperations,•using our strong, integrated operating platform, and•implementing major initiatives aimed at improving the quality of
    our service and our operating margins.



Experienced
    Executive Management Team



We believe that we have one of the most experienced executive
    management teams in the solid waste industry.



Donald W. Slager became our CEO and remained our President on
    January 1, 2011, after having served as our President and
    Chief Operating Officer (COO) from the Allied acquisition in
    December 2008 until then. Prior to the acquisition,
    Mr. Slager worked for Allied from 1992 through 2008 and
    served in various management positions, including President and
    COO from 2004 through 2008 and Executive Vice President and COO
    from 2003 to 2004. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Slager served as
    Senior Vice President, Operations. Mr. Slager held various
    management positions at Allied from 1992 to 2003, and was
    previously General Manager at National Waste Services, where he
    served in various management positions since 1985.
    Mr. Slager has over 30 years of experience in the
    solid waste industry. Mr. Slager has been a member of our
    Board of Directors since June 24, 2010.



Tod C. Holmes has served as our Chief Financial Officer since
    August 1998. Mr. Holmes served as our Vice President of
    Finance from June 1998 until August 1998 and as Vice President
    of Finance of our former parent company’s Solid Waste Group
    from January 1998 until June 1998. From 1987 to 1998,
    Mr. Holmes served in various management positions with
    Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc., including Vice President,
    Investor Relations from 1996 to 1998, Divisional Vice President,
    Collection Operations from 1995 to 1996, Divisional Vice
    President and Regional Controller – Northern Region
    from 1993 to 1995, and Divisional Vice President and Assistant
    Corporate Controller from 1991 to 1993. Mr. Holmes has over
    23 years of experience in the solid waste industry.



Kevin Walbridge has served as our Executive Vice
    President – Operations since October 1, 2010.
    Mr. Walbridge served as our Senior Vice President of
    Midwestern Operations from December 2008 until then, and served
    as our Central Region Vice President from the time he joined us
    in 1997 through December 2008. Before joining us,
    Mr. Walbridge served as the Vice President
    Operations/Co-Owner of National Serv All from 1996 to 1997, the
    President of Waste Management of Alameda County from 1993 to
    1996, and the Division President of Empire Waste Management
    from 1985 to 1993. Mr. Walbridge has over 28 years of
    experience in the solid waste industry.



Michael P. Rissman has served as our Executive Vice President,
    General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2009.
    Previously, Mr. Rissman had served as acting General
    Counsel and Corporate Secretary





from March 2009. Mr. Rissman joined Allied as Vice
    President and Deputy General Counsel in July 2007 and continued
    in the same positions at Republic following the Allied
    acquisition in December 2008. Prior to joining Allied,
    Mr. Rissman was a partner at Mayer, Brown, Rowe &
    Maw, LLP, in Chicago, where he worked from 1990 until coming to
    Allied in 2007.



Our regional senior vice presidents have an average of
    25 years of experience in the industry.



Decentralized
    Management Structure



day-to-day



Strong,
    Integrated Operating Platform



We believe that with the Allied acquisition we have created a
    company with a strong, national operating platform. Most
    previous attempts to consolidate the waste industry focused on a
    “roll up” strategy often involving relatively young
    companies solely focused on increasing revenue through
    acquisitions. We believe that the combination of Republic’s
    and Allied’s mature and proven business practices has been
    a critical component of our success and has driven the
    realization of approximately $190 million in annual
    run-rate synergies since completion of the acquisition. During
    2011, we will continue to monitor the synergies we believe we
    have achieved and we will implement additional initiatives aimed
    at further improving operating margins.



Separate from acquisition related integration activities, we
    seek to achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling
    waste streams from the point of collection through disposal. Our
    fully integrated markets generally have a lower cost of
    operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated
    markets. Through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and
    other market development activities, we create market-specific,
    integrated operations typically consisting of one or more
    collection companies, transfer stations and landfills. We
    consider acquiring companies that own or operate landfills with
    significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels
    of waste volumes.



We also seek to acquire solid waste collection companies in
    markets in which we own or operate landfills. In addition, we
    generate internal growth in our disposal operations by
    developing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills
    from time to time in markets in which we have significant
    collection operations or in markets that we determine lack
    sufficient disposal capacity. During the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 67%, 68%
    and 58%, respectively, of the total waste volume that we
    collected was disposed at landfill sites that we own or operate
    (internalization). This increase in internalization from 2008 to
    2009 is due to a higher concentration of integrated hauling and
    landfill operations acquired in the Allied acquisition. In a
    number of our larger markets, we and our competitors are
    required to take waste to government-controlled disposal
    facilities (flow-control). This provides us with an opportunity
    to effectively





compete in these markets without investing in landfill capacity.
    By further integrating operations in existing markets, we may be
    able to reduce our disposal costs.



We continue to invest in integrating and expanding our
    information systems and technology platform. Our platform
    consists of the best of the legacy systems from both Republic
    and Allied. During 2009, we converted the entire company to a
    single payable and general ledger system. During 2010, we
    converted to a single operating system and we transitioned the
    entire company to a single payroll and human resource system.
    Our future technology related initiatives will include customer
    relationship management, billing, productivity and maintenance
    systems. We believe that the combination of these systems will
    prove to be a competitive advantage for our company.



Major
    Initiatives



During 2010, we believe we completed the most successful
    integration and consolidation of two major companies in the
    waste industry. The integration process allowed us to select the
    best tools and systems and to adopt the best practices of these
    two successful companies. During 2011, we will continue or begin
    to implement the following major initiatives aimed at improving
    profitability:



•Safety.Safety remains our highest priority for all
    of our employees and the communities we serve. Our long-standing
    commitment to safety is unwavering and is evident in our mission
    statement. We will continue to improve the driver safety
    training program and reward our people for operating in a safe
    and conscientious manner in all our lines of business.•Customer Experience.We strive to provide the
    highest level of customer service. Our policy is to periodically
    visit each commercial account to ensure customer service and
    satisfaction. In addition to visiting existing customers, a
    salesperson develops a base of prospective customers within each
    market. We also have municipal marketing representatives that
    are responsible for working with each municipality or community
    to which we provide residential service to ensure customer
    satisfaction. Additionally, the municipal representatives
    organize and drive the effort to obtain new or renew municipal
    contracts in their service areas.



We will continue to reinvest in our existing fleet of vehicles,
    equipment, landfills and other facilities to ensure the highest
    level of service to our customers and the communities we serve.
    In addition, we continue to focus on innovative waste disposal
    processes and programs to help our customers achieve their goals
    related to sustainability and environmentally sound waste
    practices. We believe that these in turn will help us achieve
    profitable growth.



During 2011, we will continue to exceed our customers’
    expectations through the consistent delivery of high quality
    service and an expanded use of technology to make it easier to
    do business with us. Our technology eventually will allow more
    customers to access information and perform functions like
    change service requests and make payments over the internet that
    were previously done with the assistance of a customer service
    representative. By increasing the ease of use and functionality
    of our web-based market presence, we believe we will enhance
    customer satisfaction and retention while we lower our costs.



•Economies of Scale, Cost Efficiencies and Asset
    Utilization.We continue to identify and implement best
    practices throughout our organization with the goal of
    permanently improving overall operating and financial results.
    These best practice initiatives focus on critical areas of our
    operations such as landfill operations, truck routing,
    recycling, maintenance and related service efficiencies,
    purchasing and administrative activities. The consolidation of
    acquired businesses into existing operations reduces costs by
    decreasing capital and expenses used for truck routing,
    personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories and
    back-office administration. Generally, we consolidate our
    acquired administrative centers to reduce our general and
    administrative costs. Our goal is to maintain our selling,
    general and administrative costs at no more than 10.0% of
    revenue, which we believe is appropriate given our existing
    business platform.







In addition, our procurement initiatives ensure that we
    negotiate volume discounts for goods and services purchased.
    Further, we have taken steps to maximize the utilization of our
    assets. For example, to reduce the number of collection vehicles
    and maximize the efficiency of our fleet and drivers, we use a
    route optimization program to minimize drive times and improve
    operating density. Additionally, in 2011 we will continue to
    convert certain of our residential routes to single driver
    side-load service, thereby increasing employee safety and
    increasing route efficiency and service times. We continue to
    invest in our material recovery facilities by converting certain
    facilities from dual to single stream sorting and by updating
    our technology and equipment, all resulting in higher levels of
    productivity and recovered materials from a more efficient
    collection and recovery process. By using assets more
    efficiently, operating expenses can be reduced.



•Targeted Profitable Growth.Our growth strategy
    focuses on increasing revenue, gaining market share and
    enhancing stockholder value through internal growth in price and
    volume as well as acquisitions. Our internal growth strategy
    focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining new
    commercial, municipal and industrial customers through our
    well-managed sales and marketing activities.



Price Growth.We seek to secure price increases necessary
    to offset increased costs, to improve our operating margins and
    to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in
    assets such as our landfills.



Volume Growth.



Sales and Marketing Activities.We seek to manage
    our sales and marketing activities to enable us to capitalize on
    our leading position in many of the markets in which we operate.
    We provide a National Accounts program in response to the needs
    of our national clients, centralizing services to effectively
    manage their needs, such as minimizing their procurement costs.
    We currently have approximately 1,100 sales and marketing
    employees in the field who are compensated using a commission
    structure that is focused on generating high levels of quality
    revenue. Generally, these employees directly solicit business
    from existing and new business from prospective commercial,
    industrial, municipal and residential customers. In training
    sales personnel we emphasize increased price and cost structures
    as well as the use of a customer relationship management system
    that assists in tracking sales opportunities. It also tracks
    renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and
    franchise contracts. We believe our National Accounts program
    offers an opportunity for sales growth over the next several
    years.



Development Activities.We seek to identify
    opportunities to further our position as an integrated service
    provider in markets where we are not fully integrated. Where
    appropriate, we seek to obtain permits to build transfer
    stations, recycling facilities, and landfills that would provide
    vertically integrated waste services or expand the service areas
    for our existing disposal sites. Development projects, while
    generally less capital intensive than acquisitions, typically
    require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to
    complete with no assurance of success. We undertake development





projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of
    success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities
    are not available.



Acquisition Growth.Our acquisition growth strategy
    focuses primarily on privately held solid waste and recycling
    companies and the waste and recycling operations of municipal
    and other local governmental authorities that complement our
    existing business platform. We believe our ability to acquire
    privately held companies is enhanced by increasing competition
    in the solid waste industry, increasing capital requirements due
    to changes in solid waste regulatory requirements, and the
    limited number of exit strategies for privately held companies.
    We also seek to acquire operations and facilities from
    municipalities that are privatizing, as they seek to raise
    capital and reduce risk. In addition, we will continue to
    evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that
    are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies. Our
    acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on the following:



•acquiring privately held businesses that position us for growth,•acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate,
    retaining local management, and•acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are
    privatizing and from publicly owned companies that are divesting
    of assets.



In addition, we have and may continue to exchange businesses
    with other solid waste companies if by doing so there is a net
    benefit to our business platform. These activities allow us to
    increase revenue and market share, lower our cost of operations
    as a percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative
    facilities and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and
    economies of scale.



•Durability.We believe our decentralized management
    structure provides us with a competitive advantage by allowing
    us to quickly respond to and meet customer’s needs and to
    stay in touch with local businesses and municipalities. However,
    functions such as fleet maintenance and customer service are
    areas where we believe we can continue to build durable,
    consistent processes across all operating divisions. Through
    standardization of core functions, we believe we can minimize
    variability in our maintenance facilities resulting in a safer
    fleet of vehicles and lower costs. By automating the collection
    process, we believe we can improve safety, increase productivity
    and reduce labor costs, thereby increasing operating margins.



For certain risks related to our operating strategy, see
    Item 1A.Risk Factors.



Financial
    Strategy



Key components of our financial strategy include generating and
    growing free cash flow and sustaining or improving our return on
    invested capital. Our definition of free cash flow, which is not
    a measure determined in accordance with United States generally
    accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), is cash
    provided by operating activities less purchases of property and
    equipment, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as
    presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows. We
    believe that free cash flow is a driver of stockholder value and
    provides useful information regarding the recurring cash
    provided by our operations. Free cash flow also demonstrates our
    ability to execute our financial strategy, which includes
    reinvesting in capital assets to ensure a high level of customer
    service, investing in capital assets to facilitate growth in our
    customer base and services provided, maintaining our investment
    grade credit ratings and reducing debt, paying cash dividends,
    repurchasing our stock, and maintaining and improving our market
    position through business optimization. Free cash flow is also a
    key metric used to determine management’s compensation.



We manage our free cash flow by ensuring that capital
    expenditures and operating asset levels are appropriate in light
    of our existing business and growth opportunities and by closely
    managing our working capital, which consists primarily of
    accounts receivable and accounts payable.





We have used and will continue to use our cash flow to maximize
    stockholder value as well as our return on invested capital. Our
    Financial Strategy includes:



Market
    Growth and Optimization



Within our markets, our goal is to deliver sustainable,
    long-term profitable growth while efficiently operating our
    assets to generate acceptable rates of return. We allocate
    capital to businesses, markets and development projects to
    support growth in order to achieve acceptable rates of return.
    We develop previously non-permitted, non-contiguous landfill
    sites (greenfield landfill sites). We also expand our existing
    landfill sites, when possible. We supplement this organic growth
    with acquisitions of operating assets, such as landfills,
    transfer stations, material recovery facilities and tuck-in
    acquisitions of collection and disposal operations in existing
    markets. We continuously evaluate our existing operating assets
    and their deployment within each market to determine if we have
    optimized our position and to ensure appropriate investment of
    capital. Where operations are not generating acceptable returns,
    we examine opportunities to achieve greater efficiencies and
    returns through the integration of additional assets. If such
    enhancements are not possible, we may ultimately decide to
    divest the existing assets and reallocate resources to other
    markets.



Enhancing
    Stockholder Value



•Dividends.In July 2003, our Board of Directors
    initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.04 per share. Our
    quarterly dividend has increased from time to time thereafter,
    the latest increase occurring in the third quarter of 2010 to
    $0.20 per share, representing a compound annual growth rate of
    approximately 26%. We expect to continue paying quarterly cash
    dividends and may consider additional increases of our quarterly
    cash dividend if we believe it will enhance stockholder value.•Share Repurchase.In November 2010, our board of
    directors approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which
    we may repurchase up to $400.0 million of our outstanding
    shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we used
    $41.1 million under the program to repurchase
    1.4 million shares at an average cost per share of $28.46.
    We expect to use the remaining funds in this program to
    repurchase shares during 2011. We intend to execute our
    financial strategy while still maintaining flexibility to take
    advantage of market growth opportunities and still maintaining
    our investment grade credit ratings.



Capital
    Structure



•Debt.Following our December 5, 2008 Allied
    acquisition, we initiated a debt reduction program which, to
    date, has resulted in a net reduction in borrowings of
    $1.3 billion funded by cash flow from operations and
    proceeds from disposition of assets. We also refinanced
    $1.5 billion in senior notes and $677.4 million in
    tax-exempt financings which reduced the average coupon rate on
    our senior notes and tax-exempt financings, on a weighted
    average basis, by more than 125 basis points while
    extending our debt maturities and thereby giving greater
    stability to our capital structure. We anticipate taking further
    advantage of capital market opportunities to mitigate our
    financial risk by issuing new debt in 2011 and using the
    proceeds to repay existing debt. Any early extinguishment of
    debt may result in a charge in the period in which the debt is
    repurchased and retired.•Credit Ratings.We believe that a key component of
    our financial strategy includes maintaining investment grade
    ratings on our senior debt, which was rated BBB by
    Standard & Poor’s, BBB by Fitch and Baa3 by
    Moody’s as of December 31, 2010. Such ratings have
    allowed us, and should continue to allow us, to readily access
    capital markets at competitive rates. Our cash utilization
    strategy will continue to focus on maintaining our investment
    grade credit ratings.



For certain risks related to our financial strategy, see
    Item 1A.Risk Factors.



Operations



Our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and
    disposal of non-hazardous solid waste.





Collection Services.We provide solid waste
    collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and
    residential customers through 348 collection companies. In 2010,
    76.2% of our revenue was derived from collection services.
    Within the collection line of business, 35% of our revenue is
    from services provided to municipal and residential customers,
    40% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 25%
    is from services provided to industrial and other customers.



Our residential collection operations involve the curbside
    collection of refuse from small containers into collection
    vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to
    landfills. Residential solid waste collection services are
    typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which
    we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us
    exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in the
    respective municipalities. These contracts or franchises usually
    range in duration from one to five years, although some of our
    exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods.
    Residential solid waste collection services may also be
    performed on a subscription basis, in which individual
    households contract directly with us. The fees received for
    subscription residential collection are based primarily on
    market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to
    the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. In general,
    subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in
    advance by the residential customers receiving the service.



In our commercial and industrial collection operations, we
    supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. We
    also rent compactors to large waste generators. Commercial
    collection services are generally performed under one- to
    three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by
    considerations such as market factors, collection frequency,
    type of equipment furnished, the type and volume or weight of
    the waste collected, transportation costs, the distance to the
    disposal facility and the cost of disposal.



We also provide waste collection services to industrial and
    construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms
    ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. Our
    construction services are provided to the commercial
    construction and home building sectors. We collect the
    containers or compacted waste and transport the waste either to
    a landfill or a transfer station for disposal.



We also provide recycling services in certain markets. These
    services include the curbside collection of residential
    recyclable waste and the provision of a variety of recycling
    services to commercial and industrial customers.



Transfer and Disposal Services.We own or operate
    204 transfer stations. We deposit waste at these transfer
    stations, as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for
    compaction and transfer to trailers for transport to disposal
    sites or recycling facilities. In 2010, transfer and disposal
    services accounted for 18.2% of our revenue.



As of December 31, 2010, we owned or operated 193 active
    landfills, which had approximately 36,000 permitted acres and
    total available permitted and probable expansion disposal
    capacity of approximately 4.7 billion in-place cubic yards.
    The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change
    based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory
    authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in
    compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to
    successfully renew operating permits and obtain expansion
    permits at our sites. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous
    special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated
    soils.



Most of our active landfill sites have the potential for
    expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted
    acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal
    capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue
    an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste
    volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and
    likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy future disposal
    demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at
    certain of our landfills. However, we cannot assure you that all
    proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed.



We also have responsibility for 129 closed landfills, for which
    we have associated closure and post-closure obligations.





Landfill Gas and Renewable Energy
    Projects.During 2010, we brought two new landfill
    gas to energy (LFGTE) projects on line, resulting in a total of
    73 active LFGTE projects. These projects consist of the
    following:



•51 electric plants fueled by landfill gas;•14 medium British Thermal Unit (BTU) plants providing landfill
    gas to industrial users to be burned as fuel;•six high BTU plants that provide pipeline quality natural gas
    that ultimately could be used to fuel our natural gas
    fleet, and•two projects that burn landfill gas to evaporate leachate.



The beneficial use of landfill gas provides our economy and
    environment with significant benefits, including:



•The use and destruction of methane, a potent greenhouse gas,
    which reduces air pollution; and•The use of landfill gas offsets the use of fossil fuels, thus
    reducing our dependence on foreign oil and use of our natural
    resources.



Our 51 generating projects produce 321 megawatts of electricity
    annually, which is enough power to supply the electric needs of
    189,530 homes. Our 22 other LFGTE projects process and produce
    55,950 cubic feet per minute of landfill gas annually, which
    provides an energy benefit equivalent to heating 190,151 homes.
    The environmental benefit of all of our projects removes the
    equivalent of 950,434 tons of methane emissions and 2,346,535
    tons of carbon dioxide emissions from the atmosphere. This is
    equivalent to removing the emissions of approximately
    3.9 million cars from our highways.



One of the two new projects, a medium BTU use project at our
    Newton County Landfill, received the USEPA 2010 Project of the
    Year award.



In 2010, we also began the design and construction of new
    projects at nine landfills, which is comprised of seven electric
    plants, one medium BTU plant and one high BTU plant. The high
    BTU project, announced in the fall of 2010, will feature an
    industry first process of producing high BTU pipeline quality
    gas and using that gas to provide equivalent renewable
    compressed natural gas (CNG) to a portion of our expanding fleet
    of CNG refuse vehicles.



Recycling Facilities and Other Services.We
    own or operate 76 materials recovery facilities and other
    recycling operations. These facilities sort recyclable paper,
    aluminum, glass and other materials. Most of these recyclable
    materials are internally collected by our residential collection
    operations. In some areas, we receive commercial and industrial
    solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable
    materials and non-recyclable waste. The recyclable materials are
    salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties, and the
    non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or incinerators.



Sales and
    Marketing



We seek to provide quality services that will enable us to
    maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. Our business is
    derived from a broad customer base, which we believe will enable
    us to experience stable growth. We focus our marketing efforts
    on continuing and expanding our business with existing
    customers, as well as attracting new customers.



We employ approximately 1,100 sales and marketing employees with
    a sales and marketing strategy of providing high-quality,
    comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and
    disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. We
    target customers of all sizes, from small quantity generators to
    large “Fortune 500” companies and municipalities.



While most of our marketing activity is local in nature, we also
    provide a National Accounts program in response to the needs of
    national and regional customers. This National Accounts program
    is designed to provide the best total solution to our
    customers’ evolving waste management needs in an
    environmentally responsible manner. We partner with national
    clients to reach their sustainability goals, optimize waste
    streams,





balance equipment and service intervals, and provide customized
    reporting. The National Accounts program centralizes services to
    effectively manage customer needs, while helping minimize
    procurement costs. With our extended geographic reach, this
    program effectively serves our customers nationwide. As industry
    leaders, our mission is to utilize our strengths and expertise
    to exceed customer expectations by consistently delivering the
    best national program available.



Historically we have not always changed the trade names of the
    local businesses we acquired, and therefore we do not operate
    nationally under any one mark or trade name. The majority of our
    operations, however, are branded under either
    “Republic,” “Allied” or “BFI.”



Customers



We provide services to a broad base of commercial, industrial,
    municipal and residential customers. No single customer has
    individually accounted for more than 3% of our consolidated
    revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last
    three years.



Competition



We operate in a highly competitive industry. However, entry into
    our business and the ability to operate profitably require
    substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience.



Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from
    a few other large, national publicly owned companies, including
    Waste Management, Inc., several regional publicly and privately
    owned solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately
    owned companies. In any given market, competitors may have
    larger operations and greater resources. In addition to national
    and regional firms and numerous local companies, we compete with
    municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal
    operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages
    due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing.



We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of
    price and the quality of our services. From time to time, our
    competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort
    to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal
    contract. Our ability to maintain and increase prices in certain
    markets may be impacted by the pricing policies of our
    competitors. This may have an impact on our future revenue and
    profitability.



Seasonality
    and Severe Weather



Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement
    or severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste
    collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding
    compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste,
    reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or
    delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and
    other facilities. Our operations also can be favorably affected
    by severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste in
    situations where we are able to charge for our additional
    services.



Regulation



Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of
    federal, state and local requirements that regulate the
    environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use.
    Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals
    generally are required for landfills and transfer stations,
    certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and
    other facilities that we own or operate. These permits are
    subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in
    certain circumstances. Federal, state and local laws and
    regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water
    discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation,
    treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous
    waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the
    release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These
    laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with
    strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to
    revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain
    injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the event of
    violations, including





criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental Protection
    Agency (EPA) and various other federal, state and local
    authorities administer these regulations.



We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with
    applicable laws, regulations and permits. However, in the
    existing climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time
    to time we have been issued citations or notices from
    governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to
    expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various
    landfills and other facilities. We cannot assure you that
    citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite
    our regulatory compliance efforts. We have established final
    capping, closure, post-closure and remediation reserves that we
    believe, based on currently available information, will be
    adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs.
    However, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed
    our reserves. Refer to the Contractual Obligations table within
    Item 7.“Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”contained elsewhere herein for further information.



Federal Regulation.The following summarizes
    the primary federal environmental and occupational health and
    safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and
    operations:



•The Solid Waste Disposal Act, including the Resource
    Conservation and Recovery Act(RCRA). RCRA establishes
    a framework for regulating the handling, transportation,
    treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous
    solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure
    the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills.



Subtitle D of RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the
    disposal of municipal solid waste. Regulations under Subtitle D
    currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management
    criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions,
    facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure
    and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards,
    groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action
    standards. All of the states in which we operate have
    implemented permit programs pursuant to RCRA and Subtitle D.
    These state permit programs may include landfill requirements
    which are more stringent than those of Subtitle D. Our failure
    to comply with the implementation of federal environmental
    requirements by state and local authorities at any of our
    locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an
    operating permit, which would result in costs in connection with
    securing new permits and reduced revenue from lost operational
    time.



All of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill
    development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed
    Subtitle D requirements. Operating and design criteria for
    existing operations have been modified to comply with these
    regulations. Compliance with Subtitle D regulations has resulted
    in increased costs and may in the future require substantial
    additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally
    associated with our waste management activities.



•The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
    Liability Act of 1980(CERCLA). CERCLA, among other things,
    provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release
    or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the
    environment. CERCLA may impose strict joint and several
    liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural
    resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties
    who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous
    substances were disposed of, parties who transported the
    hazardous substances to a site, and parties who arranged for the
    disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. Under the
    authority of CERCLA and its implementing regulations, detailed
    requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and
    remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances
    have been or are threatened to be released into the environment.
    Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the existence or
    disposal of only “hazardous wastes,” but also can be
    based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700
    “substances,” characterized by the EPA as
    “hazardous” many of which are found in common
    household waste.



Among other things, CERCLA authorizes the federal government to
    investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances
    have been or are threatened to be released into the environment
    or to order persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the
    hazardous substances to do so themselves. In addition, the





EPA has established a National Priorities List of sites at which
    hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released
    and which require investigation or cleanup.



CERCLA liability is strict liability. It can be founded upon the
    release or threatened release, even as a result of
    unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous
    substances, including very small quantities of such substances.
    Thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received
    hazardous waste, it is likely that hazardous substances have
    been deposited or “released” at landfills or other
    facilities that we presently or historically have owned or
    operated, or at properties owned by third parties to which we
    have transported waste. Therefore, we could be liable under
    CERCLA for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at
    such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those
    substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired
    or operated them. The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very
    expensive and can include the costs of disposing remediation
    wastes at appropriately-licensed facilities. Given the
    difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment
    liability, such liability could have a material impact on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.





•

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972



•

The Clean Air Act.

Risk Factors



•The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970(OSHA). OSHA authorizes the Occupational Safety and
    Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor to
    promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A number of
    these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous
    chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities
    and operations.



State and Local Regulation.Each state in
    which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing
    solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most
    cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and
    liabilities for such matters. States also have adopted
    regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and
    closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties,
    municipalities and other local governments have





adopted similar laws and regulations. Our facilities and
    operations are likely to be subject to these types of
    requirements. In addition, our operations may be affected by the
    trend in many states toward requiring the development of solid
    waste reduction and recycling programs. For example, several
    states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities
    to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste
    planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of
    solid waste deposited in landfills. Additionally, laws and
    regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid
    waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage
    containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries, electronic
    wastes and household appliances, have been promulgated in
    several states and are being considered in others. Legislative
    and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction
    at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under
    consideration by the U.S. Congress and the EPA.



To construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one
    or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and
    land use approvals. These permits and approvals may be
    burdensome to obtain and to comply with, are often opposed by
    neighboring landowners and citizens’ groups, may be subject
    to periodic renewal, and are subject to denial, modification,
    non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. Significant
    compliance disclosure obligations often accompany these
    processes. In connection with our acquisition of existing
    landfills, we may be required to expend considerable time,
    effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into
    compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the
    permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.



Other Regulations.Many of our facilities own
    and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to
    store petroleum-based products. These tanks are generally
    subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that
    mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal.
    In the event of leaks or releases from these tanks, these
    regulations require that polluted groundwater and soils be
    remediated. We believe that all of our underground storage tanks
    meet all applicable regulations. If underground storage tanks we
    own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and,
    if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be
    liable for damages to third parties. We are unaware of facts
    indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to
    underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on
    our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.



out-of-state



Liabilities Established for Landfill and Environmental
    Costs.We have established reserves for landfill
    and environmental costs, which include landfill site final
    capping, closure and post-closure costs. We periodically
    reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions
    regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of
    Subtitle D of RCRA, and we adjust our rates used to expense
    final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based
    on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe
    that our recorded reserves for such landfill and environmental
    expenditures are adequate. However, environmental laws may
    change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will
    be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new
    environmental laws and regulations, future changes or
    interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or adverse
    environmental conditions previously unknown to us.





Liability
    Insurance and Bonding



The nature of our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities
    arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the
    environment. Such potential liabilities could involve, for
    example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property
    damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be
    held responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of
    employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or
    property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or
    claims alleging negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning
    or performance of work. We could also be subject to fines and
    civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged
    violations of regulatory requirements. Because of the nature and
    scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed
    in environmental litigation can be significant. Our solid waste
    operations have third party environmental liability insurance
    with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations,
    subject to certain limitations and exclusions. However, we
    cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance
    would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major
    loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry
    excess environmental liability insurance should market
    conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs
    prohibitive.



We have general liability, vehicle liability, employment
    practices liability, pollution liability, directors and
    officers’ liability, workers’ compensation and
    employer’s liability coverage, as well as umbrella
    liability policies to provide excess coverage over the
    underlying limits contained in these primary policies. We also
    carry property insurance. Although we try to operate safely and
    prudently and we have, subject to limitations and exclusions,
    substantial liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we
    will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.



Our insurance programs for workers’ compensation, general
    liability, vehicle liability, and employee-related health care
    benefits are effectively self-insured. Claims in excess of
    self-insurance levels are insured subject to the excess policy
    limits and exclusions. Accruals are based on claims filed and
    actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred
    but not reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance
    market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future,
    increased self-insurance retention levels and increased
    premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through
    higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in
    our self-insurance reserves and expense.



In the normal course of business, we post performance bonds,
    insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash or marketable
    securities deposits in connection with municipal residential
    collection contracts, closure and post-closure of landfills,
    environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business
    licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our
    performance. To date, we have satisfied financial responsibility
    requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or
    by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or
    surety bonds.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately
    30,000 full-time employees, approximately 27% of whom were
    covered by collective bargaining agreements. From time to time,
    our operating locations may experience union organizing efforts.
    We have not historically experienced any significant work
    stoppages. We currently have no disputes or bargaining
    circumstances that we believe could cause significant
    disruptions in our business. Our management believes that we
    have good relations with our employees.



Availability
    of Reports and Other Information



Our corporate website ishttp://www.republicservices.com.We make available on this website, free of charge, access to our
    Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-K,Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those
    materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
    15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. We make such
    materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we
    electronically submit them to the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC). Our corporate website also contains our
    Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics, Political
    Contributions Policy and Charters of the Nominating and
    Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee





and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. In
    addition, the SEC website ishttp://www.sec.gov.The SEC makes available on this website, free of charge,
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the
    SEC. Information on our website or the SEC website is not part
    of thisForm 10-K.We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under
    Item 5.05 ofForm 8-Kand applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules regarding
    amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics by posting this
    information on our website atwww.republicservices.com.



