
10-K
10-K



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                                ---------------



            FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM            TO
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-3619
                                  PFIZER INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                                 (212) 573-2323
              (Registrant's telephone number including area code)
                            ------------------------
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



            SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
                            ------------------------

    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                              Yes __X__ No ______

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy or information statement
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /

        The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant computed by reference to the closing price at which the stock was
sold as of February 27, 1995 was approximately $25.8 billion.

        The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes  of
common  stock as of February  27, 1995 was: 314,219,772  shares of common stock,
all of one class.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                    PART I



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

    Pfizer  Inc. (the  "Company") is  a diversified,  research-based health care
company with global  operations. The Company  discovers, develops,  manufactures
and  sells technology-intensive products in four business segments: Health Care,
which  includes  a  broad  range  of  prescription  pharmaceuticals,  orthopedic
implants,  medical devices and surgical equipment; Animal Health, which includes
animal health  products  and  feed  supplements;  Consumer  Health  Care,  which
includes a variety of nonprescription drugs and personal care products; and Food
Science,  which  includes  ingredients  for the  food  and  beverage industries.
Additionally, the Company's Financial  Subsidiaries include a banking  operation
in Europe and a small captive insurance operation.

COMPARATIVE SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA

    Comparative  segment and geographic data for  the three years ended December
31, 1994  are  set  forth on  pages  35  and  36, and  in  the  Note  "Financial
Subsidiaries"  on page 42 of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 and are incorporated herein by reference.

HEALTH CARE

    The Company's  Health  Care business  is  comprised of  pharmaceuticals  and
hospital  products.  The  Company  competes  with  numerous  other  health  care
companies in  the discovery  and development  of new,  technologically  advanced
pharmaceutical  and hospital  products; in  seeking use  of its  products by the
medical profession; and in the sale of its product lines to wholesale and retail
outlets, public and  private hospitals, managed  care organizations,  government
and the medical profession.

    Methods  of competition in health care vary with the product category. There
are a significant number of innovative companies in the field. A critical factor
in most  markets  in  which  the  Company  competes  is  the  ability  to  offer
technological advances over competitive products. The productivity of scientific
discovery  and clinical development efforts  is central to long-term operational
success since there  are many  companies that specialize  in marketing  products
that  no longer have patent or regulatory protection. Other important factors in
these markets  include  the  ability  to  transfer  knowledge  of  technological
advances to the medical community, product quality, prompt delivery and price.

    The United States pharmaceutical marketplace has in recent years experienced
intensified  price  competition,  brought about  by  a range  of  market forces,
including: new  product development,  increased generic  competition, growth  of
managed care organizations and legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to
provide  rebates  and discounts  to  government purchasers.  Similar competitive
forces, in varying degrees, have also been present in various other countries in
which the Company operates.

    Prescription pharmaceutical and hospital products, both in the United States
and abroad, are  promoted directly to  physicians, as  well as to  a variety  of
managed  care organizations.  Pharmaceutical products  are distributed  in large
part to  wholesale  and retail  outlets,  hospitals, clinics  and  managed  care
organizations.   Hospital  products  are  generally  sold  directly  to  medical
institutions and,  in  some  cases, through  distributors  and  surgical  supply
dealers.

    PHARMACEUTICALS

    The  Company's worldwide pharmaceutical products  are comprised primarily of
drugs which fall  into the following  major therapeutic classes:  cardiovascular
agents,  anti-infectives, central nervous system agents, anti-inflammatories and
anti-diabetes agents. In 1994, pharmaceuticals made up 70%


of the Company's consolidated net sales, an increase from 69% in 1993 and 63% in
1992. Increases in both United States and international pharmaceutical  revenues
in  1994 were principally the result of strong sales of products launched in the
1990s, including Norvasc  (amlodipine besylate),  Cardura (doxazosin  mesylate),
Diflucan (fluconazole), Zithromax (azithromycin) and Zoloft (sertraline).

    Cardiovascular  products are the Company's  largest therapeutic product line
accounting for 29%  of the Company's  consolidated 1994 net  sales, an  increase
from 27% in 1993 and 23% in 1992. These products realized sales growth of 20% in
1994, including an 85% increase in sales of Norvasc, an intrinsically once-a-day
calcium  channel blocker for hypertension and angina,  as well as a 27% increase
in sales of Cardura, an alpha blocker for hypertension. A supplemental New  Drug
Application  for  the  use  of  Cardura in  the  treatment  of  benign prostatic
hyperplasia  ("BPH")  was  approved   by  the  United   States  Food  and   Drug
Administration  ("FDA")  in February  1995.  Sales of  Procardia  XL (nifedipine
GITS), a  once-a-day  calcium  channel  blocker  for  hypertension  and  angina,
increased  by less than 1% in 1994. The Company's U.S. cardiovascular sales grew
12% and international sales of cardiovascular agents rose 38% in 1994.

    Worldwide anti-infective  sales increased  7%  in 1994  on the  strength  of
Diflucan  and Zithromax. U.S. anti-infective  sales grew 14% while international
sales rose by  3%. Diflucan,  an antifungal  agent, is  indicated for  use in  a
variety  of fungal  infections including  certain types  which afflict  AIDS and
immunosuppressed cancer patients.  The product also  received U.S. approval  for
the  indication of vaginal candidiasis in 1994. Diflucan posted a sales increase
of 14% in 1994  and Zithromax, an  oral antibiotic, posted  a sales increase  of
43%.  Total anti-infective sales accounted for 21% of the Company's consolidated
1994 net sales, compared to 22% in 1993 and 20% in 1992.

    Sales of Pfizer's central nervous system agents rose 46% in 1994, reflecting
increased sales of Zoloft,  an anti-depressant introduced in  the U.S. in  1992.
Central  nervous system agents grew to 13%  of 1994 net pharmaceutical sales and
9% of the Company's consolidated 1994 net sales.

    The  Company's  anti-inflammatory  agents,  including  Feldene  (piroxicam),
accounted for less than 10% of the Company's consolidated 1994 net sales.

    The  Company's  anti-diabetes  agents, including  Glucotrol  (glipizide) and
Glucotrol XL (glipizide GITS), a sustained release anti-diabetic approved in the
U.S. in 1994, accounted for less than 10% of the Company's consolidated 1994 net
sales.

    The Company  currently is  seeking approval  by the  FDA for  the  following
products for the indications listed:




    In addition, the Company has marketing rights in the United States and Japan
to  XOMA Corporation, Inc.'s E5, a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of gram
negative sepsis, which is undergoing FDA regulatory review.

    To date, Diflucan has been launched in 62 countries and regulatory approvals
have been obtained in 16 additional  countries. Norvasc has been launched in  74
countries  and approvals have been obtained  in 14 additional countries. Cardura
has been  launched  in 23  countries  and approvals  have  been obtained  in  35
additional  countries. In  addition, Cardura for  BPH has been  approved in five
countries. Zithromax has been launched in  38 countries and approvals have  been
obtained  in 24 additional  countries. Zoloft has been  launched in 31 countries
for depression.  Approvals have  been obtained  in an  additional 16  countries.
Applications  for  regulatory approval  for the  OCD  indication have  been made
worldwide and  approvals  have  been  obtained  in  four  additional  countries,
although  it has not  yet been launched  in these countries.  In addition to the
United States, where regulatory approval is being sought for both the osteo- and
rheumatoid arthritis indications, regulatory approvals for Enablex capsules  for
rheumatoid  arthritis  have  been applied  for  in  29 countries  and  have been
obtained in two countries. No launches of Enablex have yet taken place.

    HOSPITAL PRODUCTS

    The Company's Hospital Products Group consists of two divisions -- Howmedica
and Medical  Devices. Howmedica  manufactures and  markets orthopedic  implants.
Medical  Devices consists of three core  businesses -- Valleylab, Schneider, and
American Medical  Systems  and two  smaller  businesses --  Strato/Infusaid  and
Biomedical Sensors.

    Howmedica's  reconstructive hip, knee  and bone cement  products are used to
replace joints which have deteriorated as  a result of disease or injury.  Major
product  lines are P.C.A. Hips, ABG Hips, Duracon Knees and Simplex Bone Cement.
Howmedica's trauma products  are used by  orthopedic surgeons to  aid in  trauma
surgery  and in setting  fractures and include  the Gamma Nail,  Luhr System and
Alta System.

    Schneider, an  international  leader in  angioplasty  catheters, is  also  a
market  leader in vascular  and non-vascular stent  applications. In March 1995,
the Company acquired NAMIC U.S.A. Corporation ("NAMIC"), a Company that designs,
manufactures and markets a broad  range of single-patient use medical  products,
primarily  for use in  the diagnosis of  atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
NAMIC's product lines complement those of  Schneider and are expected to  expand
the  opportunities  for  this  business.  Valleylab  is  a  worldwide  leader in
electrosurgical devices. Valleylab continues to  invest in new product lines  to
enhance  patient and physician  safety. American Medical Systems  is a leader in
impotence and incontinence implants. Its major product development activities in
1994 were  focused on  new therapies  for the  treatment of  BPH and  urological
strictures.

    The   merger  and  the   consolidation  of  operations   of  Strato  Medical
Corporation, a supplier of implantable  vascular access ports, and Infusaid,  an
innovator  of implantable infusion  pumps, were completed  in 1994. The combined
operation will focus on advanced drug delivery systems. Biomedical Sensors  grew
in  1994  reflecting  the full  year  launch  of the  Paratrend  7 intravascular
continuous blood gas monitoring  system, incorporating both electrochemical  and
fiberoptic technology.

ANIMAL HEALTH

    The  Company's  Animal Health  Group  discovers, develops,  manufactures and
sells animal health  products for the  prevention and treatment  of diseases  in
livestock,  poultry  and other  animals.  The principal  products  are: Dectomax
(doramectin), the Company's new antiparasitic  which was first launched in  1993
and  is now  available in  much of  Latin America,  South Africa  and the United
Kingdom; Terramycin LA-200 (oxytetracycline) (marketed as TM/LA outside of North
America),  a  broad-spectrum  injectable  antibiotic;  the  Banminth   (pyrantel
tartrate),   Nemex   (pyrantel   pamoate)  and   Paratect   (morantel  tartrate)
anthelmintics; Coxistac and Posistac (salinomycin) anticoccidials primarily  for
poultry;  Terramycin (oxytetracycline),  a broad-spectrum antibiotic  used for a
variety of


animal diseases;  Mecadox (carbadox),  an antibacterial  for pigs;  and  Advocin
(danofloxacin),   the  Company's  new  antibacterial  for  treating  respiratory
diseases  in   livestock   and   poultry.  Aviax   (semduramicin),   a   potent,
broad-spectrum  ionophore anticoccidial used to  prevent coccidiosis in poultry,
is to be launched in  1995. Aviax is currently  under regulatory review in  many
countries,  with approvals already received in  a number of countries, including
the United States and Japan. In 1995,  the Animal Health Group plans a total  of
49 new market launches of Dectomax, Advocin and Aviax.

    Animal  health  and nutrition  products are  sold through  drug wholesalers,
distributors,  retail   outlets   and   directly  to   users,   including   feed
manufacturers,  animal producers and veterinarians.  Methods of competition with
respect to animal health products vary somewhat but include product  innovation,
service,  price, quality and effective transfer of technological advances to the
market through advertising and promotion.

    In January 1995, the Company  acquired the SmithKline Beecham Animal  Health
("SBAH")  business.  SBAH is  a world  leader in  animal vaccines  and companion
animal health products,  which complement the  Company's existing animal  health
business  in  terms  of product,  species  and regional  sales  coverage. SBAH's
principal products are  Stafac (virginiamycin), a  feed additive  anti-infective
for  poultry, cattle and  swine; Valbazen (albendazole),  a bovine parasiticide;
Filaribits (diethylcarbamazine citrate),  a pet parasiticide;  and a variety  of
vaccines including BoviShield, Leukocell, RespiSure and Vanguard.

    A  substantial number  of other companies  manufacture and sell  one or more
similar products  for animal  health use.  There are  hundreds of  producers  of
animal  health  products  throughout the  world.  The Company  is  a significant
manufacturer of injectable antibiotics, anthelmintics and anticoccidial products
for food animals. With the acquisition of SBAH, the Company became a significant
manufacturer of biologicals and pet products as well.

CONSUMER HEALTH CARE

    The Company's  Consumer Health  Care  Group's products  include  proprietary
health items, baby care products and toiletries, Plax pre-brushing dental rinse,
and  a number of products sold only in selected international markets, including
Vanart hair  care  products in  Mexico  and Migraleve  over-the-counter  ("OTC")
migraine  medication  and the  TCP line  of  antiseptic and  germicidal products
marketed primarily in the United Kingdom.

    Among the  better-known OTC  brands manufactured  and marketed  by  Consumer
Health   Care  are  Visine  (tetrahydrozoline  HCl)  eyedrops,  Ben-Gay  topical
analgesics, Desitin diaper rash  ointments, Unisom (doxylamine succinate)  sleep
aids,  Plax pre-brushing dental rinse, Rid anti-lice products and Barbasol shave
creams and  gels. Line  extensions introduced  in recent  years include:  Unisom
SleepGels,  soft liquid-filled gels  with a maximum-strength  sleep aid formula,
Daily Care from  Desitin, a lotion  for the  prevention of diaper  rash and  new
formulations of Rid and Plax.

    Many  other OTC companies, large and small, manufacture and sell one or more
similar consumer  products. The  Company  is a  significant competitor  in  this
extensive  OTC market, and its principal  methods of competition include product
quality,  product   innovation,   customer  satisfaction,   broad   distribution
capabilities,  significant advertising and promotion  and price. In general, the
winning and retaining of consumer acceptance of the Company's consumer  products
involve heavy expenditures for advertising, promotion and marketing.

FOOD SCIENCE

    The  Company's Food Science Group serves the global food processing industry
with innovative food ingredients to meet worldwide trends toward convenient  and
healthful  foods. Specialty ingredients with quality parameters of appeal, taste
and freshness, coupled with Food Science's technical,


application and  discovery  skills,  serve  the  needs  of  the  worldwide  food
industry.   Food  Science's  longer-term  goals  are  linked  to  the  Company's
healthcare strategies by targeting a new generation of food ingredients to allow
better health maintenance through diet.

    Food Science's specialty ingredients  include: "lite" food ingredients  such
as  Litesse (polydextrose); flavors  (veltols); food protectants (erythorbates);
and brewery ingredients.  Currently under development  are products for  calorie
control  utilizing  bulking agents;  products  for fat  replacement  and reduced
calorie intake from fats; high temperature fat substitutes; intense  sweeteners;
food  protectants; and flavors.  In October 1994,  Food Science acquired certain
assets of Flavor  Technology Inc.,  a company  that specializes  in the  design,
customization and manufacture of proprietary flavorings.

    The  Food Science  business competes with  other organizations  for sales of
most  of  its  ingredients  as  well  as  substitute  products.  Some  of  these
organizations  produce and sell products that  are either identical to, or serve
the same  function as,  ingredients  marketed by  Food  Science. The  number  of
competitors  varies with each particular ingredient. Methods of competition vary
by ingredient but include  innovation and quality,  prompt delivery, ability  to
meet exacting specifications, technical service and cost.

FINANCIAL SUBSIDIARIES

    In  1992, the  Company completed the  transfer of  its international banking
operations from Puerto Rico to the Republic of Ireland. This subsidiary,  Pfizer
International Bank Europe (PIBE), operates under a full banking license from the
Central   Bank  of  Ireland.  This  reorganization  and  transfer  was  made  in
anticipation  of  the  integration  and  unification  of  the  European  Union's
financial  markets. PIBE  makes loans  and accepts  deposits in  U.S. dollars in
international markets and  is an active  Euromarket lender with  a portfolio  of
loans,  floating  rate  notes and  Euronotes  of high  quality  corporations and
sovereigns. Loans are  made primarily on  a short- and  medium-term basis,  with
floating interest rates.

    The  Company's insurance  operation, The  Kodiak Company  Limited, reinsures
certain assets, inland transport and marine cargo of Pfizer subsidiaries.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

    Outside the  United States,  the Company  has significant  operations,  both
direct  and through  distributors that, in  general, parallel  its United States
businesses. The  Company's  international  businesses are  subject,  in  varying
degrees,  to  a number  of risks  inherent  in carrying  on business  in certain
countries  outside  the  United  States,  including  possible   nationalization,
expropriation   and  other  restrictive  government   actions  such  as  capital
regulations. In addition, changes  in the values of  currencies take place  from
time  to time and can  be either favorable or unfavorable  to the net income and
net assets of the Company. It is impossible to predict future changes in foreign
exchange values  or  the effect  they  will have  on  the Company.  The  Company
actively manages its foreign exchange risk through routine transactional hedging
programs.  In  addition,  from time  to  time,  the Company  engages  in hedging
programs designed to protect  selected balance sheet  positions and future  cash
flow  exposures. Further information  with respect to  the financial instruments
used to carry  out these hedging  programs is incorporated  by reference to  the
note entitled "Financial Instruments and Concentrations of Credit Risk" found on
pages  42 and 43 of the Annual Report  to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1994.

TAX MATTERS

    For tax  years  beginning  after  December  31,  1993,  the  Omnibus  Budget
Reconciliation  Act of 1993 ("OBRA") reduced by 40% the benefits accruing to the
Company under Section 936 of the Internal


Revenue Code (the "Puerto Rico tax  credit"). Such tax benefits will decline  an
additional  5% per year through 1998. For tax years beginning after December 31,
1997, the Puerto Rico tax credit will be fixed at 40% of the level allowed prior
to the enactment of OBRA.

    The Internal Revenue Service  ("IRS") is currently  auditing the years  1987
through  1989.  In  October 1994,  the  Company  received a  Notice  of Proposed
Adjustments from the IRS. The proposed  adjustments relate primarily to the  tax
accounting treatment of certain swaps and related transactions undertaken by the
Company  in 1987 and 1988. These transactions resulted in the receipt of cash in
those years, which the Company duly reported as income for tax purposes. In 1989
(in Notice 89-21), the IRS announced  that it believed cash received in  certain
swap transactions should be reported as income for tax purposes over the life of
the  swaps, rather than  when received. In  the case of  the Company, this would
cause some of the income to be reported  in years subject to the Tax Reform  Act
of  1986.  The IRS  proposed adjustment  involves  approximately $72  million in
federal taxes for the  years 1987 through 1989,  plus interest. If the  proposed
adjustment  is carried through to  the maturity of the  transactions in 1992, an
additional tax deficiency  of approximately  $86 million,  plus interest,  would
result.  The Company  disagrees with  the proposed  adjustment and  continues to
believe that its tax accounting treatment  for the transactions in question  was
proper.

    While it is impossible to determine the final disposition, the Company is of
the  opinion  that the  ultimate resolution  of  this matter  should not  have a
material adverse effect on the financial  position or the results of  operations
of the Company.

    The Company has satisfactorily resolved all issues with the Internal Revenue
Service  for the years through  1986. The Company believes  that its accrued tax
liabilities are adequate for all open years.

PATENTS AND RESEARCH

    The Company owns or is  licensed under a number  of patents relating to  its
products and manufacturing processes which, in the aggregate, are believed to be
of  material importance in its business. Based  on current product sales, and in
view of the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the Company  does
not  consider any single patent or related group of patents to be significant in
relation to the enterprise as a  whole, except for the Procardia XL,  Zithromax,
Diflucan, Zoloft and Norvasc patents. Procardia XL employs a novel drug delivery
system  developed  and  patented  by  Alza  Corporation.  The  Company  holds an
exclusive license  to  use this  delivery  system with  nifedipine  until  2003.
Zithromax  is a novel, broad spectrum macrolide antibiotic patented by Pliva and
exclusively licensed  to  the Company  for  sales  and marketing  in  all  major
countries  of the  world. The  U.S. product  patent on  Zithromax (azithromycin)
expires in 2005.  The Company holds  patents relating to  Diflucan, Zoloft,  and
Norvasc.

    The  Company spent in excess of $1.1  billion in 1994, $974 million in 1993,
and  $863  million  in  1992  on  Company-sponsored  research  and   development
throughout  the world.  In 1995, the  Company plans to  spend approximately $1.4
billion on  research and  development.  In 1991,  the Company  also  established
Pfizer Research and Development Company (PRDCO) in Ireland. In 1992, the Company
provided  PRDCO with  an initial capitalization  of approximately  $1 billion to
enable PRDCO  to  engage in  research  and development  through  a  cost-sharing
arrangement  with Pfizer Ltd. (a Pfizer U.K. subsidiary) in exchange for PRDCO's
receiving a portion of property rights  relating to the development of  specific
products.

    Competition  in  research, involving  the  development of  new  products and
processes  and  the   improvement  of  existing   products  and  processes,   is
particularly  significant and results  from time to time  in product and process
obsolescence. The development of new and  improved products is important to  the
Company's success in all areas of its business.


EMPLOYEES

    Approximately  40,800 persons were  employed by the  Company, as of December
31, 1994,  throughout  the world  as  follows: United  States,  15,700;  Europe,
11,600; Asia, 7,500; Canada/Latin America, 4,500; and Africa/Middle East, 1,500.
The Company has a good relationship with its employees.

REGULATION

    Most  of  the  Company's  businesses  are  subject  to  varying  degrees  of
governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted. Such
regulation in the United States involves a more complex product approval process
than in many  other countries  and therefore  often results  in later  marketing
clearances  and  a  corresponding increase  in  the expense  of  introducing new
products in  the  United  States.  In  many  international  markets,  prices  of
pharmaceuticals are controlled by the government.

    The 1990 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act requires pharmaceutical companies
to extend rebates to state Medicaid agencies based on each state's reimbursement
of  pharmaceutical products under the Medicaid program. The Veterans Health Care
Act, passed in 1992, requires manufacturers to provide discounts on purchases of
pharmaceutical products  by the  Department  of Veterans  Affairs (DVA)  and  by
certain entities funded by the Public Health Service. The Company's net sales in
1994  were reduced by Medicaid rebates  and rebates under related state programs
which amounted to $74 million. In addition, in 1994, Pfizer provided $56 million
in discounts to the federal government, primarily to the DVA and the  Department
of Defense, for drugs purchased in accordance with the Veterans Health Care Act.

    In  1990, the  FDA announced  a call for  data for  ingredients contained in
products bearing anti-plaque and  related claims. The call  for data is part  of
the  FDA's ongoing review, begun in 1972, of over-the-counter drug products. The
FDA is taking this administrative approach  to evaluate the safety and  efficacy
of  anti-plaque  products and  has  not proceeded  further  with regard  to 1989
regulatory letters it issued to the  Company and several other manufacturers  of
products  bearing anti-plaque claims. The Company  submitted its response to the
call for data relating to Plax, its pre-brushing dental rinse, on June 17, 1991.
This filing, as well  as filings of other  manufacturers, is still under  review
and is currently being considered by an FDA Advisory Panel.

    On  January 1, 1995,  the new European  Medicines Evaluation Agency ("EMEA")
instituted a new  drug-approval process for  the member states  of the  European
Union ("EU"). The EMEA provides two new drug-approval procedures. A "centralized
procedure"  allows for a single central approval that is valid in all EU states.
A "decentralized  procedure" provides  for  approval in  all EU  states  through
recognition  of a first approval in  one member state. The centralized procedure
must be used  for all  biotechnology products (including  products derived  from
recombinant  DNA technology, hybridoma  and monoclonal antibody  methods) and is
available at the applicant's option for  other products. While it is  envisioned
that it will take several years for EMEA to be fully operational, it is expected
that  a harmonized, centralized regulatory agency in Europe would offer benefits
to the human and veterinary drug industries.

    During 1994, Congress  continued debate on  reform of the  U.S. health  care
system.  While numerous health care reform  bills were introduced, including the
Administration's "Health Security Act," Congress  was unable to reach  consensus
on  an approach to  health care reform.  Health care has  been identified by the
current Republican  Congressional majority  as a  long-term priority  item.  The
focus  in Congress  on balancing  the Federal budget  may have  a more immediate
impact on  health care,  however,  if the  Medicare  and Medicaid  programs  are
targeted  for significant cuts.  Medicaid managed care  systems driven by budget
concerns are already under consideration in several states. If the Medicare  and
Medicaid  programs  implement managed  care systems  that severely  restrict the
access of program participants  to innovative new medicines,  this could have  a
significant adverse effect on the Company.


RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY

    Raw  materials essential to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries
are generally obtainable from multiple  sources. The Company did not  experience
any significant restrictions on availability of raw materials or supplies during
the  last year and none is expected in 1995. Energy was available to the Company
in sufficient  quantities to  meet Company  requirements and  this condition  is
expected to continue in 1995.

ENVIRONMENT

    Certain of the Company's operations are affected by Federal, State and local
laws and regulations relating to environmental quality. The Company has made and
intends  to  continue  to  make  the  necessary  expenditures  for environmental
protection. Compliance with such laws and regulations is not expected to have  a
material  adverse effect on the financial  position or the results of operations
of the Company.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    Following is a  summary description  of the Company's  principal plants  and
properties:

    Groton  Plant and Research  Laboratories -- These  facilities are located in
Groton, Connecticut,  and surrounding  towns, on  approximately 649  acres,  and
include  a number of buildings of one to eight stories, containing approximately
3,250,000 square feet of floor space either existing or under construction.

    Principal products produced  at Groton are  bulk pharmaceuticals,  specialty
chemicals  and food ingredients. Since acquiring  the plant in 1946, the Company
has made major improvements, including construction of production facilities,  a
powerhouse and generating equipment and a large research complex adjacent to the
plant. In 1992, major improvements to plant facilities were initiated, including
a process effluent and waste water treatment facility and a major pharmaceutical
capacity  replacement project.  Both projects  are expected  to be  completed by
1996. In  the research  complex, construction  of significant  new buildings  is
continuing,  with major enlargement (116,000  square feet) of the pharmaceutical
research and development facilities. These  improvements are also scheduled  for
completion  by  1996. Construction  was completed  in  1993 on  several research
expansions including  a  156,000-square-foot drug-safety  building  addition,  a
30,000-square-foot central-utilities building, and a 442,000-square-foot parking
facility.

    Brooklyn  Plant  --  The  Company's  site  in  Brooklyn,  New  York,  is  on
approximately 17 acres, including a number of buildings containing approximately
888,000 square  feet  of floor  space.  The primary  operations,  pharmaceutical
dosage-form manufacturing and packaging, are housed in an eight-story production
facility containing 545,000 square feet.

    Vigo Plant and Research Facility -- These facilities, located in Vigo County
near  Terre Haute, Indiana, are on a  site of approximately 2,100 acres owned in
fee and consist of a number of buildings of


one to five stories containing approximately 740,000 square feet of floor space.
Principal products  produced at  this plant  are pharmaceutical  products,  bulk
antibiotics, polydextrose and chymosin. Animal health research is also performed
on this site.

    Barceloneta  Plant -- Pfizer  Pharmaceuticals Inc. is  located on an 89-acre
property owned by  the Company at  Barceloneta, Puerto Rico.  An additional  151
acres  of  land adjacent  to this  property  were purchased  in 1991  for future
utilization. Acquisition of an adjacent  9-acre site was recently approved.  The
facilities  contain four major  manufacturing buildings (of  two to four floors)
and twelve support  buildings with a  total approximate area  of 403,000  square
feet  of  floor space;  and ten  additional  facilities (tank  farms, electrical
substations, cooling towers,  etc.) with  an approximate area  of 81,000  square
feet,  for a total  plant facilities area of  approximately 484,000 square feet.
The plant  houses organic  synthesis manufacturing,  pharmaceutical  dosage-form
manufacturing  and packaging facilities and the  required service areas, such as
bulk and  drum  liquid  storage,  laboratories,  utilities,  engineering  shops,
employee services and administration.

    Other  U.S.  Locations  -- The  Company  also operates  15  other production
facilities in the  United States and  has five regional  sales and  distribution
centers in various parts of the country which are owned in fee.

    The  Company's world  headquarters is located  at 235 East  42nd Street, New
York, NY.  The  Company  owns  this  33-story  office  building  which  contains
approximately 650,000 square feet. The building stands on slightly less than one
acre  of land which is leased under an  agreement expiring in 2057. In 1983, the
Company purchased a nine-story office building located at 219 East 42nd  Street,
containing  approximately 263,400 square  feet which is  immediately adjacent to
the Company's headquarters. The Company  also leases additional office space  in
New York City consisting of approximately 111,000 square feet.

    Outside  the United States  -- The Company's  major manufacturing facilities
outside the United  States are  located in Australia,  Belgium, Brazil,  France,
Germany,  Great Britain,  India, Ireland,  Italy, Japan,  Mexico and  Spain. The
plants in these twelve  countries have an aggregate  of over two million  square
feet  of floor space. Other  plants are located in  over 17 additional countries
located in various parts of the world.

    Sandwich -- A large medicinal and animal health research unit is located  in
Sandwich, England, where an 82,000-square-foot clinical-sciences building became
operational  in 1993  and a  99,000-square-foot animal-sciences  building became
operational in early 1994. Construction  is in progress on a  97,000-square-foot
pharmaceutical  sciences  building  due for  occupancy  in  1996 and  also  on a
120,000-square-foot administration and services building which is scheduled  for
completion in early 1995. An effluent treatment plant is also under construction
at this location.

    Ringaskiddy -- The Ringaskiddy facility in Ireland comprises three important
bulk  organic  synthesis manufacturing  plants,  two of  which  are now  in full
operation. The third  has just been  completed and is  scheduled for startup  in
early  1995. Ringaskiddy manufactures the majority  of bulk products required by
the International Pharmaceuticals Group in its worldwide dosage-form operations.
These manufacturing  plants  are  computer controlled  and  among  them  provide
considerable   flexibility  in  supplying  both   the  current  and  foreseeable
requirements  for  the   Group.  Ringaskiddy's   manufacturing  operations   are
self-supported by a modern and efficient infrastructure, providing such services
as   utilities,   quality   assurance,  environmental   treatment   systems  and
maintenance.

    Nagoya --  The  Nagoya facility  in  Japan encompasses  several  significant
individual  operations in addition to  its research function. Fermentation, bulk
organic synthesis and dosage-form manufacturing  are important to the supply  of
the  Company's operations  in Japan (the  country with the  second largest sales
after the United States) as well  as elsewhere in the world. Various  facilities
on   the  site  are  computer  controlled   and,  similar  to  Ringaskiddy,  the
manufacturing  operations  are  self-supported  by  utility  services,   quality
assurance, environmental treatment systems and maintenance functions.


    In  addition to  the facilities  outlined above,  research laboratories also
exist in France and Germany.

    The Company's  major manufacturing  facilities  in the  U.S. and  the  other
locations  referred  to  above  manufacture  various  products  for  all  of the
Company's  businesses.  These  properties  are  maintained  in  good   operating
condition  and the manufacturing facilities  have capacities considered adequate
to meet the Company's needs.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company is  involved in a  number of claims  and litigations,  including
product  liability claims and litigations considered normal in the nature of its
businesses. These include  suits involving various  pharmaceutical and  hospital
products that allege either reaction to or injury from use of the product.

    As  previously  disclosed, numerous  claims  have been  brought  against the
Company and  Shiley Incorporated,  a wholly  owned subsidiary,  alleging  either
personal injury from fracture of 60(degree) or 70(degree) Shiley Convexo-Concave
(C/C)  heart valves, or anxiety that properly functioning implanted valves might
fracture in the future or, in a  few cases, personal injury from a  prophylactic
replacement of a functioning valve.

    In  an  attempt  to  resolve  all  claims  alleging  anxiety  that  properly
functioning valves might  fracture in  the future,  the Company  entered into  a
settlement agreement in January 1992 in Bowling v. Shiley et al., a case brought
in  the United  States District  Court for  the Southern  District of  Ohio that
establishes a worldwide  settlement class of  people with C/C  heart valves  and
their  spouses, except  those who  elect to  exclude themselves.  The settlement
provides for a Consultation Fund of $90 to $140 million (depending on the number
of claims  filed) from  which  valve recipients  who  make claims  will  receive
payments   that  are  intended   to  cover  their   cost  of  consultation  with
cardiologists or other health care providers  with respect to their valves.  The
settlement  agreement  establishes a  second  fund of  at  least $75  million to
support C/C valve-related research, including  the development of techniques  to
identify  valve recipients  who may  have significant  risk of  fracture, and to
cover the  unreimbursed medical  expenses that  valve recipients  may incur  for
certain  procedures  related  to  the valves.  The  Company's  obligation  as to
coverage of these  unreimbursed medical expenses  is not subject  to any  dollar
limitation.  Following  a hearing  on  the fairness  of  the settlement,  it was
approved by the court on August 19,  1992. An appeal of the court's approval  of
the  settlement was dismissed on December 20, 1993 by the United States Court of
Appeals for the  Sixth Circuit. A  motion for  rehearing en banc  was denied  on
March 8, 1994, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied a writ of certiorari on October
4,  1994. It is expected  that most of the costs  arising from the Bowling class
settlement will be covered by insurance and the proceeds of the sale of  certain
product  lines of the Shiley businesses in 1992. Of approximately 900 implantees
(and spouses of some  of them) who  opted out of  the Bowling settlement  class,
eight   have  cases   pending;  approximately   792  have   been  resolved;  and
approximately 100 have never filed a case or claim.

    Several claims relating  to elective  reoperations of  valve recipients  are
currently  pending. Some of these claims relate to elective reoperations covered
by the Bowling class settlement  described above, and, therefore, the  claimants
are  entitled  to  certain  benefits in  accordance  with  the  settlement. Such
claimants, if they irrevocably waive all of the benefits of the settlement,  may
pursue  separate litigation to recover damages in spite of the class settlement.
The Company is defending these claims.

    Generally, the  plaintiffs in  all of  the pending  heart valve  litigations
discussed  above seek money damages.  Based on the experience  of the Company in
defending these claims to date, including available insurance and reserves,  the
Company  is of the opinion that these actions should not have a material adverse
effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.

    On September 30, 1993, Dairyland  Insurance Co., a carrier providing  excess
liability coverage ("excess carrier") in the early 1980s, commenced an action in
the  California Superior Court in Orange  County, seeking a declaratory judgment
that   it   was    not   obligated   to    provide   insurance   coverage    for


Shiley   heart  valve  liability  claims.  On  October  8,  1993,  Pfizer  filed
cross-complaints against Dairyland and  filed third-party complaints against  73
other  excess carriers who sold excess  liability policies covering periods from
1978 to 1985, seeking damages and declaratory judgments that they are  obligated
to pay for defense and indemnity to the extent not paid by other carriers.

    The   Company's  operations  are   subject  to  federal,   state  and  local
environmental  laws  and  regulations.  Under  the  Comprehensive  Environmental
Response  Compensation  and  Liability  Act of  1980,  as  amended  ("CERCLA" or
"Superfund"), the Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party
by the United  States Environmental  Protection Agency with  respect to  certain
waste  sites with which the Company may have had direct or indirect involvement.
Similar designations have been made  by some state environmental agencies  under
applicable  state superfund laws.  Such designations are  made regardless of the
extent of the Company's involvement. There are also claims that the Company is a
potentially responsible party or participant with respect to several waste sites
in Canada. Such claims have been made by the filing of a complaint, the issuance
of an administrative directive or order, or  the issuance of a notice or  demand
letter.  These  claims  are  in various  stages  of  administrative  or judicial
proceedings. They include demands  for recovery of  past governmental costs  and
for  future investigative or remedial actions.  In many cases, the dollar amount
of the claim is not specified. In most cases, claims have been asserted  against
a number of other entities for the same recovery or other relief as was asserted
against  the Company. The Company is  currently participating in remedial action
at a number of sites under federal, state and local laws.

    To the extent possible with the  limited amount of information available  at
this  time, the Company  has evaluated its responsibility  for costs and related
liability with  respect to  the  above sites  and is  of  the opinion  that  the
Company's  liability  with respect  to these  sites should  not have  a material
adverse effect on  the financial position  or the results  of operations of  the
Company. In arriving at this conclusion, the Company has considered, among other
things,  the payments that have been made with respect to the sites in the past;
the factors,  such  as  volume  and relative  toxicity,  ordinarily  applied  to
allocate defense and remedial costs at such sites; the probable costs to be paid
by the other potentially responsible parties; total projected remedial costs for
a  site,  if known;  existing  technology; and  the  currently enacted  laws and
regulations. The Company anticipates that a  portion of these costs and  related
liability will be covered by available insurance.

    Through  the early  1970s, Pfizer  (Minerals Division)  and Quigley Company,
Inc., a  wholly owned  subsidiary, sold  a minimal  amount of  one  construction
product  and several refractory  products containing some  asbestos. These sales
were discontinued thereafter.  Although these sales  represented a minor  market
share,  the Company has been named as one  of a number of defendants in numerous
lawsuits. These  actions, and  actions related  to the  Company's sale  of  talc
products  in  the  past,  claim  personal  injury  resulting  from  exposure  to
asbestos-containing products, and nearly all seek general and punitive  damages.
In  these  actions, the  Company  or Quigley  is typically  one  of a  number of
defendants, and  both are  members  of the  Center  for Claims  Resolution  (the
"CCR"), a joint defense organization that is defending these claims. The Company
and  Quigley are  responsible for varying  percentages of  defense and liability
payments for  all  members  of the  CCR.  Prior  to September  1990,  the  cases
involving  talc  products were  defended  by the  CCR,  but the  Company  is now
overseeing its own defense of these actions. A number of cases alleging property
damage from asbestos-containing products installed  in buildings have also  been
brought against Pfizer.

    On  January 15, 1993, a class action complaint and settlement agreement were
filed  in  the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Eastern  District  of
Pennsylvania  involving  all personal  injury claims  by  persons who  have been
exposed to asbestos-containing products, but who  have not yet filed a  personal
injury  action  against the  20  members of  the  CCR. The  settlement agreement
establishes a claims-processing mechanism that will provide historic  settlement
values  upon proof  of impaired medical  condition as  well as claims-processing
rates over  10 years.  In addition,  the  shares allocated  to the  CCR  members
eliminate  joint  and  several  liability. The  court  has  determined  that the
settlement is fair and reasonable. Subsequently, the court entered an injunction
enforcing its determination. An  appeal from that injunction  is pending in  the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.


    Concurrently  with the  filing of  the future  claims class  action, the CCR
settled approximately  16,360 personal  injury  cases on  behalf of  Pfizer  and
Quigley.  It is the  CCR's intention to  settle remaining and  opt-out cases and
claims on a similar basis to past settlements. The total pending number of cases
as of December 31, 1994 is 14,543 asbestos cases against Quigley, 5,643 asbestos
cases against Pfizer Inc. and 147 talc cases against Pfizer Inc.

    Costs incurred  by the  Company in  defending the  asbestos personal  injury
claims  and the property damage claims, as well as settlements and damage awards
in connection therewith, are  largely insured against  under policies issued  by
several  primary insurance carriers and a number of excess carriers. The Company
believes that its costs  incurred in defending and  ultimately disposing of  the
asbestos  personal injury claims, as well as the property damage claims, will be
largely covered by  insurance policies issued  by carriers that  have agreed  to
provide  coverage,  subject to  deductibles,  exclusions, retentions  and policy
limits. In connection  with the  future claims settlement,  the defendants  have
commenced  a  third-party  action  against  their  respective  excess  insurance
carriers that have not agreed to provide coverage seeking a declaratory judgment
that (a) the future claims settlement is fair and reasonable as to the carriers;
(b) the carriers had adequate notice of the future claims class settlement;  and
(c)  the carriers are obligated to provide coverage for asbestos personal injury
claims. Based on the  Company's experience in defending  the claims to date  and
the  amount of insurance coverage available, the  Company is of the opinion that
the actions  should  not  ultimately  have a  material  adverse  effect  on  the
financial position or the results of operations of the Company.

    In  connection with the divestiture of  Minerals Technologies Inc. (MTI), to
which the net  assets of  the Pfizer Minerals  and the  Quigley businesses  were
transferred,  Pfizer and Quigley  agreed to indemnify  MTI against any liability
with respect to  products manufactured and  sold prior to  October 30, 1992,  as
well as against liability for certain environmental matters.

    The  Company has been  named, together with  numerous other manufacturers of
brand name prescription drugs and  certain companies that distribute brand  name
prescription drugs, in suits brought by retail pharmacy companies in federal and
state  courts. The federal cases consist principally of a class action by retail
pharmacies (including approximately 30 named plaintiffs), as well as  additional
actions  by approximately  1,900 individual  retail pharmacies  (the "individual
actions"). These cases, all of  which have been or are  in the process of  being
transferred  to the  United States District  Court for the  Northern District of
Illinois and coordinated for pretrial  purposes, allege that the defendant  drug
manufacturers  have violated the Sherman Act in that they have unlawfully agreed
with each other (and, as alleged in some cases, with wholesalers) not to  extend
to  retail pharmacy companies  the same discounts  allegedly extended to managed
care  companies,  mail   order  pharmacies  and   certain  other   institutional
purchasers.  In addition, the  individual actions also  allege violations of the
Robinson-Patman  Act  in  that  the  manufacturers  allegedly  have   unlawfully
discriminated  against  retail pharmacy  companies  by not  extending  them such
discounts.

    The federal  court  has certified  a  class  consisting of  all  persons  or
entities  who, since October 15, 1989, bought prescription brand name drugs from
any manufacturer or wholesaler defendant, but specifically excluding  government
entities, mail order pharmacies, HMOs, hospitals, clinics and nursing homes. The
federal court had denied a motion for certification made by a purported class of
Alabama  consumers (in  a case  that was originally  filed in  state court, then
removed to federal court). In the  state cases, motions for class  certification
are  anticipated,  except in  one  Alabama action  still  in state  court, where
plaintiffs have stated  that they intend  to amend their  complaint to  withdraw
their class allegations.

    The  Company believes that  these cases are without  merit and is vigorously
defending them.

    FDA administrative proceedings relating to Plax are pending, principally  an
industry-wide call for data on all anti-plaque products by the FDA. The call for
data  notice specified that products that have been marketed for a material time
and to a  material extent may  remain on the  market pending FDA  review of  the
data,  provided the  manufacturer has  a good faith  belief that  the product is
generally recognized as safe  and effective and is  not misbranded. The  Company
believes that Plax satisfied these


requirements  and prepared a response  to the FDA's request,  which was filed on
June 17, 1991. This filing,  as well as the  filings of other manufacturers,  is
still  under  review  and  is  currently being  considered  by  an  FDA Advisory
Committee.

    A consolidated class  action on  behalf of persons  who allegedly  purchased
Pfizer  common stock during the March 24,  1989 through February 26, 1990 period
is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of  New
York.  This lawsuit, which commenced on July  13, 1990, alleges that the Company
and  certain  officers  and  former  directors  and  officers  violated  federal
securities  law  by  failing  to disclose  potential  liability  arising  out of
personal injury suits  involving Shiley  heart valves  and seeks  damages in  an
unspecified  amount.  The defendants  in this  action believe  that the  suit is
without merit and are vigorously defending it. A derivative action commenced  on
April  2, 1990 against  certain directors and officers  and former directors and
officers alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and other common law violations  in
connection  with  the manufacture  and distribution  of  Shiley heart  valves is
pending in the Superior Court,  Orange County, California. The complaint  seeks,
among other forms of relief, damages in an unspecified amount. The defendants in
the  action believe that the suit is  without merit and are vigorously defending
it.

    On January 28, 1993, a purported class action entitled Kearse v. Pfizer Inc.
and Howmedica Inc.  was commenced in  the United States  District Court for  the
Northern  District  of  Ohio. Howmedica  Inc.  ("Howmedica") is  a  wholly owned
subsidiary of the  Company. The  action sought monetary  and injunctive  relief,
including medical monitoring, on behalf of patients implanted with the Howmedica
P.C.A.  one-piece acetabular hip component,  which was manufactured by Howmedica
from 1983 to 1990.  The complaint alleged that  the prostheses were  defectively
designed  and manufactured and posed undisclosed  risks to implantees. On August
3, 1993, a virtually identical purported class action, Bradshaw/Davids v. Pfizer
Inc. and  Howmedica Inc.,  was  brought and  the  Kearse case  was  subsequently
voluntarily  dismissed. The district court has  denied the plaintiffs' motion to
certify the  case as  a class  action. The  Company believes  that the  suit  is
without merit and is vigorously defending it.

    During  1994,  seven purported  class  actions were  filed  against American
Medical Systems ("AMS") in federal  courts in South Carolina (later  transferred
to  Minnesota),  California,  Minnesota  (2), Indiana,  Ohio  and  Louisiana. In
January 1995, an additional purported class  action was filed in state court  in
Louisiana,  replicating the federal  suit. The California  and Indiana suits and
one Minnesota suit also name Pfizer Inc. as a defendant, based on its  ownership
of  AMS.  The  suits  seek  monetary  and  injunctive  relief  on  the  basis of
allegations that implantable  penile prostheses are  prone to unreasonably  high
rates  of mechanical failure  and/or various autoimmune diseases  as a result of
silicone materials.  On  September  30,  1994, the  federal  Judicial  Panel  on
Multidistrict  Litigation denied the various  plaintiffs' motions to consolidate
or coordinate the  cases for  pretrial proceedings.  On February  28, 1995,  the
Court  in  the  Ohio suit  conditionally  granted plaintiffs'  motion  for class
certification and on  March 3,  1995, the Court  in the  California suit  denied
plaintiffs'  motion for class certification. The  Company believes the suits are
without merit and is vigorously defending them.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not applicable.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

    Information  required  by  this item  is  incorporated by  reference  to the
"Quarterly Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited)" found on page 53 and to
page 58 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended  December
31, 1994.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA



SELECTED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA




ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    Information  required  by  this item  is  incorporated by  reference  to the
"Financial Review" on pages 26 through  33 of the Annual Report to  Shareholders
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    Information  required  by  this item  is  incorporated by  reference  to the
"Independent Auditors' Report" found on  page 34 and to  pages 35 through 53  of
the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Information  with regard to the Directors of the Company, including those of
the following Executive Officers who are Directors, is incorporated by reference
to pages 3 through 7 of the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 16, 1995.

    The Board  of Directors  elects officers  at its  first meeting  after  each
annual  meeting of shareholders. The Board may  also elect officers from time to
time throughout the  year. Elected  officers of  the Company  hold office  until
their  successors  are  chosen  or until  their  earlier  death,  resignation or
removal.







                  BUSINESS EXPERIENCE OF NON-DIRECTOR OFFICERS

BRIAN W. BARRETT

    Mr. Barrett  joined  Pfizer Canada  in  1966,  where he  served  in  various
financial   positions,  including  Chief  Financial   Officer  of  the  Canadian
subsidiary.  In  1971,   he  was  appointed   Assistant  Controller  of   Pfizer
International  in New York;  in 1973, Director of  International Planning and in
1976, Director of Planning. In 1980, Mr. Barrett was appointed Vice President --
Corporate Strategic Planning; in 1983, he  became Vice President -- Finance  for
Pfizer  International; in  1985, President --  Africa/ Middle East  and in 1991,
President -- Asia/Canada. In 1992, Mr. Barrett was elected Vice President of the
Company. He assumed  the responsibilities  of his  present position,  President,
Northern Asia, Australasia and Canada -- International Pharmaceuticals Group, in
1993.

M. KENNETH BOWLER

    Mr.  Bowler  joined the  Company in  1989,  and has  been Vice  President --
Federal Government Relations since  1990. He formerly  served as Staff  Director
for the House Ways and Means Committee.

C. L. CLEMENTE

    Mr.  Clemente joined the Company  in 1964 and has  served as Vice President;
General Counsel and Secretary, Pfizer International,  Inc. He has also held  the
position  of Vice  President of Coty,  formerly Pfizer's  fragrance and cosmetic
division. In 1983,  he was  named Associate General  Counsel of  Pfizer Inc.  In
1986,  he  was elected  Vice  President; General  Counsel  and Secretary  of the
Company. He became a member of the Corporate Management Committee of the Company
in 1991. In  1992, he was  elected Senior Vice  President -- Corporate  Affairs;
Secretary and Corporate Counsel.

BRUCE R. ELLIG

    Mr.  Ellig joined  the Company  in 1960. He  progressed through  a number of
positions of  increasing  responsibility  in the  Corporate  Personnel  Division
including Vice President -- Compensation and Benefits in 1978 and Vice President
--  Employee  Relations in  1983.  In 1985,  he  was elected  Vice  President --
Personnel of the Company.

DONALD F. FARLEY

    Mr. Farley  joined  the Company  in  1965  as Production  Engineer  for  the
Chemical  Division.  After  serving  in  a  number  of  positions  of increasing
responsibility within the Chemical  Division, he was  named its Vice  President,
Operations in 1982. In 1986 he became Senior Vice President of the Division, and
in  1988, Executive Vice  President -- Specialty Chemicals.  In 1992, Mr. Farley
was named President of the Food Science Group and in February 1993 was elected a
Vice President of the Company.

DAVID M. FITZGERALD

    Mr.  Fitzgerald  joined  the  Company's   Howmedica  division  in  1970   as
Controller.  In 1974, he  was promoted to Corporate  Controller of Howmedica. He
served as Assistant General Manager and Vice President -- General Manager and in
1980 he assumed responsibility for Howmedica's worldwide orthopedics operations.
In 1982, he was appointed Senior Vice President of Howmedica. In 1984, he became
President of Howmedica and Senior Vice President of Hospital Products. In  1988,
he  became Executive Vice President of the Hospital Products Group. In 1992, Mr.
Fitzgerald was elected Vice President of the Company.


GEORGE A. FORCIER

    Dr. Forcier joined the  Company in 1966 as  Analytical Research Chemist  for
the  Company's  Medical Research  Laboratories. In  1970,  he was  named Project
Leader, in  1979 Manager,  and in  1981, Assistant  Director of  the  Analytical
Research  Department. In 1986, he was  named Director of the Analytical Research
and Development Department and  in 1991, he became  Group Director. Dr.  Forcier
was  elected Vice President -- Quality Control of the Company, effective January
1, 1994.

P. NIGEL GRAY

    Mr. Gray joined the  Company in 1975 as  Export Sales Manager for  Howmedica
U.K., Ltd. in England and progressed through a number of positions of increasing
responsibility before being named Vice President, Marketing for Howmedica Europe
in  1983. In 1987, Mr. Gray became  Senior Vice President and General Manager of
Howmedica  International  in  Staines,  England,  then  President  of  Howmedica
International  in 1992. In 1993, he came to New York as Executive Vice President
of the Company's Hospital Products Division and President of the Medical Devices
Division and in October 1994, he was elected a Vice President of the Company.

WILLIAM E. HARVEY

    Mr. Harvey  joined the  Company in  1966 as  Assistant to  the Treasurer  of
Pfizer   International.  In   1969,  he   was  appointed   Assistant  Treasurer,
International and in  1981, he  became Assistant  Treasurer of  the Company.  In
1990, Mr. Harvey was elected Vice President; Treasurer of the Company and served
in this capacity until his retirement on December 31, 1994.

GARY N. JORTNER

    Mr.  Jortner joined  the Company  in 1973  as a  Systems Analyst  for Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals. In 1974,  he transferred to  product management and  progressed
through  a series of promotions  that resulted in his  being named Group Product
Manager for Pfizer Labs in 1978. In 1981, he became Vice President of  Marketing
for  Pfizer Labs. In 1986,  he was promoted to  Vice President of Operations for
Labs. In 1991,  he was  named Vice President  and General  Manager, Pfizer  Labs
Division.  In 1992, Mr.  Jortner was elected  Vice President of  the Company. In
1994, he was named Vice President;  Group Vice President, Disease Management  --
U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group.

KAREN L. KATEN

    Ms.  Katen joined the  Company in 1974  as a Marketing  Associate for Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals. Beginning in 1975, she progressed through a number of positions
of increasing  responsibility  in  the Roerig  product  management  group  which
resulted  in  her  being named  Group  Product  Manager in  1978.  In  1980, she
transferred to Pfizer Labs as a Group Product Manager and later became Director,
Product Management.  In  1983, she  returned  to  Roerig as  Vice  President  --
Marketing.  In 1986, she was named Vice  President and General Manager -- Roerig
Division. In 1992, she was elected Vice  President of the Company. In May  1993,
Ms. Katen became Executive Vice President of the U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group.

ALAN G. LEVIN

    Mr.  Levin joined the Company  in 1987 as Senior  Operations Auditor for the
Controllers Division, and in 1988 joined the Treasurer's Division as Controller,
Pfizer International Bank. He became Director -- Finance, International in  1991
and  in 1993 was named Senior Director -- Finance, Asia. On January 1, 1995, Mr.
Levin was elected Treasurer of the Company.


HENRY A. MCKINNELL

    Dr. McKinnell joined the Company in 1971. In 1977, he became Vice  President
-- Area Manager for Pfizer Asia. In 1979, he became Executive Vice President and
in  1981,  President of  Pfizer  Asia. In  1984,  Dr. McKinnell  was  named Vice
President -- Corporate  Strategic Planning and  in 1986, he  was elected a  Vice
President  of the  Company. In  1990, Dr.  McKinnell became  the Company's Chief
Financial Officer and  was named Vice  President -- Finance  of the Company.  In
1992,  he became a member of the  Corporate Management Committee of the Company.
In that  same  year, he  became  Executive Vice  President  of the  Company  and
President of the Company's Hospital Products Group, in addition to remaining the
Company's Chief Financial Officer.

BROWER A. MERRIAM

    Mr.  Merriam joined the Company in 1969  as Country Manager for Peru, and in
1971, he was appointed Country Manager for Argentina. In 1973, he was  appointed
President  of  Pfizer  Latin  America.  He  was  appointed  Director  of  Pfizer
International in 1984, and in 1988  assumed the position of President for  Latin
America,  Southeast Asia,  Indo-Pacific and  Canada. In  1990, he  was appointed
Executive Vice President of Pfizer  International. In 1991, he became  Executive
Vice  President  of  the Animal  Health  Group  and in  1992  was  appointed its
President. Mr. Merriam was elected a Vice President of the Company in 1992.

JOHN C. MESLOH

    Mr. Mesloh joined  Howmedica, Inc. as  Controller in 1973.  In 1974, he  was
appointed  Vice President -- Finance and Treasurer  of Howmedica, and in 1980 he
was elected Corporate Controller of the Company. In 1989, Mr. Mesloh was elected
Vice President of the Company. Mr. Mesloh was elected Vice President,  Corporate
Purchasing, effective January 1993.

VICTOR P. MICATI

    Mr.  Micati joined the Company in 1965  as a Management Candidate for Pfizer
Labs. Beginning  in  1966,  he  progressed through  a  number  of  positions  of
increasing  responsibility in  the Pfizer Labs  Division, which  resulted in his
being named  Vice  President  -- Marketing  in  1971.  In 1972  he  became  Vice
President  of Pharmaceutical  Development for  International Pharmaceuticals. In
1980, he was named Executive Vice  President of the European Management  Center.
He  returned to the International Pharmaceutical Division in 1984 as Senior Vice
President, and in 1990 was named  President, Pfizer Europe. In 1992, Mr.  Micati
was elected Vice President of the Company.

PAUL S. MILLER

    Mr.  Miller  joined  the Company  in  1971  and was  appointed  an Assistant
Secretary and Assistant General Counsel in 1975. In 1983, he was named Associate
General Counsel.  In  1986, he  became  Secretary of  the  Corporate  Management
Committee  and in that same year he  was elected Vice President; General Counsel
of the Company. He became a member of the Corporate Management Committee of  the
Company  in  1991. In  1992, Mr.  Miller  was elected  Senior Vice  President --
General Counsel of the Company.

GEORGE M. MILNE, JR.

    Dr. Milne joined the Company  in 1970 as a  Research Scientist. In 1973,  he
was named Senior Research Scientist and progressed through a number of positions
of  increasing responsibility which resulted in  his being named Vice President,
Research and Development Operations  in 1985. In 1988,  Dr. Milne became  Senior
Vice  President, Research and Development, and in September 1993, he was elected
Vice President of the Company and President, Central Research.


ROBERT NEIMETH

    Mr. Neimeth joined the Company in 1962 as a management trainee, subsequently
serving  as  Country  Manager,   Nigeria,  as  Vice  President,   Pharmaceutical
Development  in Asia, and then as President of Pfizer Asia from 1972 to 1977. He
then served as Vice President and Director of Operations for Pfizer Labs in  the
U.S. In 1980 he became President, Pfizer Europe and, in 1983, Mr. Neimeth became
a  Vice President of  the Company. In  1984, he was  also elected Executive Vice
President of Pfizer  International Subsidiaries and  assumed supervision of  the
pharmaceutical  business  in Africa  and  the Middle  East,  in addition  to his
responsibilities  in  Europe.   In  1990,   he  was   named  President,   Pfizer
International  Subsidiaries. In  1991, he  became Chairman,  President and Chief
Executive Officer  of Pfizer  International.  He also  became  a member  of  the
Corporate  Management Committee of the Company in  1991. In 1992, he was elected
Executive  Vice  President   of  the  Company,   and  President,   International
Pharmaceuticals  Group. In this  capacity, Mr. Neimeth  supervises the Company's
International Pharmaceutical and worldwide Animal Health operations.

JOHN F. NIBLACK

    Dr. Niblack joined the Company in 1967 and held various management positions
in new-drug  discovery  operations  before  being  appointed  in  1984  as  Vice
President,  Medicinal Products Research and in 1986 as Executive Vice President,
Central Research. In 1990, Dr. Niblack  was named President -- Central  Research
and  elected a Vice President of the Company. In September 1993, Dr. Niblack was
elected Executive  Vice President  --  Research and  Development, and  became  a
member of the Corporate Management Committee of the Company.

WILLIAM J. ROBISON

    Mr.  Robison joined the Company in 1961 as a Sales Representative for Pfizer
Labs. After serving in a number of positions of increasing responsibility in the
Labs division, he was appointed Vice President of Sales in 1980, and Senior Vice
President, Pfizer Labs  in 1986.  In 1990 he  was appointed  Vice President  and
General  Manager  of  Pratt Pharmaceuticals,  and  in 1992  assumed  his present
position as President of  the Consumer Health Care  Group. In 1992, Mr.  Robison
was also elected Vice President of the Company.

HERBERT V. RYAN

    Mr.  Ryan joined the Company in 1962  as Supervisor, Capital Assets. In 1964
he was named Supervisor, Corporate Ledger and in 1966 became Director, Corporate
Accounting. In 1981 he was appointed Assistant Controller, Corporate Accounting.
In 1993, Mr. Ryan was elected Controller.

CRAIG SAXTON

    Dr. Saxton joined the Company in 1976 as Clinical Projects Director for  the
Central  Research Division of Pfizer Ltd. in  Sandwich, England. In 1981, he was
named Senior Associate Medical Director for the International Division of Pfizer
Inc., and in 1982  became the Division's Vice  President, Medical Director.  Dr.
Saxton  became Senior Vice President, Clinical  Research and Development for the
Central Research Division  in 1988. In  September 1993, he  was named  Executive
Vice  President --  Central Research  and was  elected a  Vice President  of the
Company.

GERALD H. SCHULZE

    Mr. Schulze joined the Company in  1971 as a Medical Service  Representative
for  Roerig. He served in a number  of positions of increasing responsibility in
the  Pharmaceuticals  and  International  divisions  before  being  named   Vice
President -- Business Development for the Consumer Products division in 1985. In
1987, he was named Vice President -- Business Development for Hospital Products,
and  in 1988,  became that  division's Senior  Vice President.  In 1992,  he was
elected a Vice President of the  Company and was named Executive Vice  President
for the Hospital Products Group


and President of the Medical Devices Division. In November 1993, Mr. Schulze was
elected  Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning of the Company. In October
1994, he was elected Vice President, Pharmaceutical Planning.

ROBERT L. SHAFER

    Mr. Shafer  joined the  Company in  1966  as Assistant  to the  Director  of
Government  Relations.  In  1967,  he became  Associate  Director  of Government
Relations and in 1968, Director of Government Relations. In 1973, Mr. Shafer was
elected a Vice President of the Company. In 1982, he was elected Vice  President
-- Public Affairs.

DAVID L. SHEDLARZ

    Mr.  Shedlarz joined the Company in 1976 as Senior Financial Analyst for the
Pharmaceuticals Division. After serving in  a number of positions of  increasing
responsibility,  he was named Production Controller  in 1979 and Assistant Group
Controller in 1981. In 1984,  he became Group Controller  and in 1989 was  named
Vice  President of Finance for the  Pharmaceuticals Group. In 1992, Mr. Shedlarz
was elected Vice President -- Finance of the Company.

FREDERICK W. TELLING

    Dr. Telling joined the  Company in 1977 as  Associate Personnel Manager  for
the  Pharmaceuticals Division  and progressed through  a number  of positions of
increasing responsibility  before  being  named Director  of  Planning  for  the
Pharmaceuticals  Division in 1981. In  1987, he was named  the Vice President of
Planning and Policy, and in 1994,  Senior Vice President of Planning and  Policy
for  the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group.  In October 1994, Dr. Telling was
elected Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning and Policy.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Information  with  regard  to  executive  compensation  is  incorporated  by
reference to pages 8 through 19 of the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 16,
1995.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information  with regard to security  ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management  is  incorporated  by reference  to  pages  2 through  7  of  the
Company's Proxy Statement dated March 16, 1995.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    Information with regard to certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated  by reference to pages  20 and 21 of  the Company's Proxy Statement
dated March 16, 1995.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    The following is a  list of all Financial  Statement Schedules and  Exhibits
filed as a part of this Annual Report.

    (a)(1)  Financial Statements

            See Part II

    (a)(2)  Financial Statement Schedule



    Schedules  not listed above have  been omitted for the  reason that they are
inapplicable or  not required  or  the information  is  given elsewhere  in  the
financial  statements. The  financial statements  of unconsolidated subsidiaries
are omitted on the basis that  these subsidiaries, considered in the  aggregate,
would not constitute a significant subsidiary.


    (a)(3)  Exhibits



    (b) The Company filed a report on Form 8-K dated December 13, 1994.

    Exhibits to the Form 10-K are available upon request at the charges set  out
below.  Requests should be  directed to C. L.  Clemente, Secretary, Pfizer Inc.,
235 East 42nd Street, New York, N.Y. 10017.




                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Pfizer Inc.
                                          (Registrant)

                                          By          /s/ C.L. CLEMENTE

                                             -----------------------------------
                                                        C.L. Clemente
                                                         (Secretary)

Dated: March 23, 1995

    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.







                      PFIZER INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS




    The  following trademarks,  found in  this report,  are among  those used by
Pfizer Inc.

CARDURA (DOXAZOSIN MESYLATE)
DIFLUCAN (FLUCONAZOLE)
ENABLE (TENIDAP)
ENABLEX (TENIDAP)
E5 (ANTI-ENDOTOXIN ANTIBODY)
FELDENE (PIROXICAM)
GLUCOTROL (GLIPIZIDE)
GLUCOTROL XL (GLIPIZIDE GITS)
NORVASC (AMLODIPINE BESYLATE)
PROCARDIA (NIFEDIPINE)
PROCARDIA XL (NIFEDIPINE GITS)
REACTINE (CETIRIZINE)
UNASYN (SULBACTAM/AMPICILLIN)
ZITHROMAX (AZITHROMYCIN)
ZOLOFT (SERTRALINE)
ABG
ALTA
DURACON
GAMMA
LUHR
PARATREND
P.C.A.
SIMPLEX
LITESSE (POLYDEXTROSE)
ADVOCIN (DANOFLOXACIN)
AVIAX (SEMDURAMICIN)
BANMINTH (PYRANTEL TARTRATE)
BOVISHIELD
COXISTAC (SALINOMYCIN)
DECTOMAX (DORAMECTIN)
FILARIBITS (DIETHYLCARBAMAZINE CITRATE)
LEUKOCELL
MECADOX (CARBADOX)
NEMEX (PYRANTEL PAMOATE)
RESPISURE
STAFAC (VIRGINIAMYCIN)
TERRAMYCIN LA-200 (OXYTETRACYCLINE)
TM/LA (OXYTETRACYCLINE)
PARATECT (MORANTEL TARTRATE)
POSISTAC (SALINOMYCIN)
VALBAZEN (ALBENDAZOLE)
VANGUARD
BARBASOL
BEN-GAY
DAILY CARE FROM DESITIN
DESITIN
PLAX
RID
UNISOM (DOXYLAMINE SUCCINATE)
UNISOM SLEEPGELS
VISINE (TETRAHYDROZOLINE HCI)

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX



