
10-K


                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                       Washington, D.C.  20549
                                  
                              FORM 10-K
                                   (Mark One)
    
        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
[ X ]
                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
              For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
                                  OR
[  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
               
For the transition period from ____to___Commission File Number:1-8089
                   
                       DANAHER CORPORATION
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
     
     Delaware                                59-1995548
    (State of incorporation)              (I.R.S.Employer
                                        Identification number)
    
    1250 24th Street, N.W., Suite 800
         Washington, D.C.                            20037
    (Address of Principal                          (Zip Code)
    Executive Offices)            
    
    Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  202-828-0850
    
              Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
               
                                                                      
                                       Name of Exchanges
    Title of each class                on which registered
    Common Stock $.01 par Value        New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                       Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.
    
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
    
                      NONE
                                       
    (Title of Class)
                                 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
    reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and
    (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
    days.
    
     Yes  X                             No __
    
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
    to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
    be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
    proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
    III of this Form  10-K or any amendment to this Form 10- K. [X]
    
    As of March 20, 1996, the number of shares of common stock
    outstanding was 58,124,128 and were held by approximately 3,000
    holders.  The aggregate market value of common shares held by
    non-affiliates of the Registrant on such date was approximately
    $1.13 billion, based upon the closing price of the Company's common
    shares as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape on
    such date.
                                          
    EXHIBIT INDEX APPEARS ON PAGE 8 
        
           DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                       
    Part II and Part IV incorporate certain information by reference
    from the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
    ended December 31, 1995.  With the exception of the pages of the
    Annual Report to Shareholders specifically incorporated herein by
    reference, the Annual Report to Shareholders is not deemed to be
    filed as part of this Form 10-K.
    
    Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the
    registrant's proxy statement for its 1996 annual meeting of
    stockholders.  With the exception of the pages of the 1996 Proxy
    Statement specifically incorporated herein by reference, the 1996
    Proxy Statement is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form 10-K.
    
    ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
    
    General
    
     Danaher Corporation ("Danaher" or the "Company"), originally
    DMG, Inc., was organized in 1969 as a Massachusetts real estate
    investment trust.  In 1978 it was reorganized as a Florida
    corporation under the name Diversified Mortgage Investors, Inc.
    ("DMI") which in a second reorganization in 1980 became a subsidiary
    of a newly created holding company named DMG, Inc.  The Company
    adopted the name Danaher in 1984 and was reincorporated as a
    Delaware corporation following the 1986 annual meeting of
    shareholders.
    
     The Company conducts its operations through two business
    segments:  Tools and Components and Process/Environmental Controls.
    
    Tools and Components
    
     The Tools and Components segment is comprised of the Danaher
    Hand Tool Group (including Special Markets and Professional Tool
    Division, which includes Armstrong  Bros. Tool Co., a premier
    manufacturer and marketer of industrial hand tools), Matco Tools
    ("Matco"), Jacobs Chuck Manufacturing Company ("Jacobs"), Iseli
    Company ("Iseli"), Delta Consolidated Industries, Jacobs Vehicle
    Equipment Company, Hennessy Industries and the hardware and
    electrical apparatus lines of Joslyn Manufacturing Company (JMC),
    which was acquired in September, 1995.  This segment is one of the
    largest domestic producers and distributors of general purpose
    mechanics' hand tools and automotive specialty tools.  Other
    products manufactured by these companies include tool boxes and
    storage devices, diesel engine retarders, wheel service equipment,
    drill chucks, custom designed headed tools and components, hardware
    and components for the power generation and transmission industries,
    high quality precision socket screws, fasteners, and high quality
    miniature precision parts.
    
     The Company's business strategy in this segment is focused on
    increasing sales to existing customers, broadening channels of
    distribution, developing new products and achieving production
    efficiencies and enhanced quality and customer service through
    "Just-In-Time" and related manufacturing techniques.
    
     Danaher Tool Group (DTG) is one of the largest domestic
    producers of general purpose mechanics' hand tools (primarily
    ratchets, sockets and wrenches) and specialized automotive service
    tools for the professional and "do-it-yourself" markets.  DTG has
    been the principal manufacturer of Sears, Roebuck and Co.'s
    Craftsman  line of mechanics' hand tools for over 50 years. 
    Approximately 80% of the over 100 million pieces sold to Sears
    annually are sold in tool sets that include from three to 900
    pieces.  Net sales to Sears were approximately 16% of total Company
    sales in 1995.
    
     DTG's Special Markets Group sells to Sears under a five year
    evergreen agreement, that requires Sears to purchase a significant
    portion of its annual requirements for its private-label Craftsman 
    mechanics' hand tool line from DTG.  
    
     For over 30 years, DTG has also been a primary supplier of
    specialized automotive service tools to NAPA, which has
    approximately 6,500 outlets at present.  In addition, DTG has been
    the designated supplier of general purpose mechanics' hand tools to
    NAPA since 1983.  DTG specialized automotive service tools are also
    sold under the K-D Tools  brand, its industrial tools and products
    are also sold under the Armstrong  and Allen  brand names, and
    fastener products under the Holo-Krome name are sold to independent
    distributors and other customers in the "do-it-yourself,"
    professional automotive, commercial and industrial markets.
    
     Professional mechanics' tools are distributed by Matco which
    has approximately 1,100 independent mobile distributors who sell
    primarily to individual professional mechanics.  Matco is one of the
    leading suppliers in this market.
    
     Jacobs is the market leader in the drill chuck business with
    its highly respected and well recognized brand name and Iseli is a
    leader in the manufacture of miniature precision parts produced on
    Swiss screw machines.
    
     Delta is the market leader in boxes and other storage
    containers serving the vehicle aftermarket and manufactures and
    markets containers serving numerous specialty areas.
    
     Wheel service equipment is manufactured under the Coats, Bada
    and Ammco brand names.  Products include tire changers, wheel
    balancers, wheel weights and brake service equipment.  Wheel service
    equipment is sold primarily to wholesale distributors and national
    accounts.  These markets are served by the Company's sales
    personnel.
    
     Diesel engine retarders are manufactured at Jacobs.  The "Jake
    Brake" technology was developed by Jacobs and represents the premier
    brand of engine retarders.  The product is sold by Jacobs' sales
    personnel to original equipment manufacturers and aftermarket
    distributors.
    
     The nation's oldest manufacturer of poleline hardware and a
    U.S. market share leader, the hardware division of JMC manufactures
    a wide variety of products used in the construction and maintenance
    of electric power, telephone and cable television systems.  Its
    products range from specialized fasteners to sophisticated castings
    and forgings.
    
     The electrical apparatus division of JMC manufactures surge
    protection devices rated as high as 468,000 volts for the electric
    power utility industry.  Surge arresters are designed to eliminate
    the damaging effects of electrical surges caused by lightning and
    other overvoltage conditions on a utility's power system.
    
     The major raw materials used by this segment, including high
    quality steel, are available from a variety of sources in sufficient
    quantities.
    
    Process/Environmental Controls
    
     The Process/Environmental Controls segment is comprised of the
    Veeder-Root Company ("Veeder-Root"), Danaher Controls, Partlow/
    Anderson Instruments, Gulton Industries-Graphic Instruments, West
    Instruments, Ltd., QualiTROL Corporation, A.L. Hyde Company,
    Hengstler, and the controls product line business units of Joslyn
    Corporation, which was acquired in September, 1995.  These companies
    produce and sell underground storage tank leak detection systems and
    temperature, level and position sensing devices, power switches and
    controls, communication line products, power protection products,
    liquid flow measuring devices and electronic and mechanical counting
    and controlling devices.  These products are distributed by the
    Company's sales personnel and independent representatives to
    original equipment manufacturers, distributors and other end users.
    
     The Company's strategy in the Process/Environmental Controls
    segment is to concentrate on the rapid expansion of its
    environmental controls product line, including the Veeder-Root TM
    storage tank leak detection systems business.  The Company believes
    that Veeder-Root is the premier manufacturer of state-of-the-art
    tank measuring and leak detection systems for underground fuel
    storage tanks and, accordingly, is uniquely positioned to respond to
    the increased demand for these products fueled by environmental
    regulations.
    
     The Company is also expanding its other offerings in the
    environmental controls product line to encompass applications
    related to markets other than petroleum storage and to address
    nonregulatory business requirements.  This expansion program
    includes both internally developed new product offerings as well as
    selective product line acquisitions.
    
     In its instruments product line, the Company's strategy is to
    continue enhancing its global controls and instrument position by
    both new product development and complementary acquisitions.  The
    companies within the Instrument Group have significant synergies in
    both product offerings and channels of distribution.  The Company
    plan is to leverage these synergies in product design, engineering
    and manufacturing, and product marketing.
    
     Veeder-Root is also the predominant worldwide supplier of
    mechanical gasoline pump computing devices and a manufacturer of
    other measuring and counting devices.
    
     Other business lines within this segment include extruded
    thermoplastic mill shapes and custom molded plastic products.
    
     The raw materials utilized by companies in this segment  are
    stock items, principally metals and plastic, electrical and
    electronic components.  These materials are readily available from a
    number of sources in sufficient quantities.
    
    Patents, Licenses, etc.
    
     The Company has patents of its own and has acquired licenses
    under patents of others.  The Company does not consider that its
    business, as a whole, is dependent on any single patent, group of
    patents, trademark or franchise.  The Company does, however, offer
    many patented products and is periodically engaged in litigation
    concerning patents and licenses.
    
        
    Seasonal Nature of Business
    
     As a whole, the Company's businesses are not subject to
    material seasonal fluctuations.
    
    Backlog
    
     The Company's products are manufactured primarily in advance
    of order and either shipped or assembled from stock.  Backlogs are
    not significant as sales are often dependent on orders requiring
    immediate shipment from inventory.
    
    Employee Relations
    
     At December 31, 1995, the Company employed approximately
    10,500 persons.  Of these, approximately 1,600 were hourly-rated
    unionized employees.  The Company considers its labor relations to
    be good.
    
    Research and Development
    
     The Company's research and development expenditures were
    $36,400,000 for 1995, $26,800,000 for 1994, and $24,000,000 for
    1993.
    
    Environmental and Safety Regulations
    
     Certain of the Company's operations are subject to federal,
    state and local environmental laws and regulations which impose
    limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water
    and establish standards for treatment, storage and disposal of solid
    and hazardous wastes.  The Company believes that it is in
    substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and
    regulations.
    
     JMC previously operated wood treating facilities that
    chemically preserved utility poles, pilings and railroad ties.  All
    such treating operations were discontinued or sold prior to 1982. 
    These facilities used wood preservatives that included creosote,
    pentachlorophenol and chromium-arsenic-copper.  While preservatives
    were handled in accordance with all appropriate procedures called
    for at the time, subsequent changes in environmental laws may
    require the generators of these spent preservatives to be
    responsible for the cost of remedial actions at the sites where
    spent preservatives have been deposited.  The Company is continuing
    its investigation of these sites and remediation technologies.  The
    Company has made a provision for environmental compliance; however,
    there can be no assurance that estimates of environmental
    liabilities will not change.
     
     In addition to environmental compliance costs, the Company may
    incur costs related to alleged environmental damage associated with
    past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous
    materials handling practices.  For example, generators of hazardous
    substances found in disposal sites at which environmental problems
    are alleged to exist, as well as the owners of those sites and
    certain other classes of persons, are subject to claims brought by
    state and federal regulatory agencies pursuant to statutory
    authority.  The Company believes that its liability, if any, for
    past or current waste handling practices will not have a material
    adverse effect on its financial condition.
    
     The Company must also comply with various federal, state and
    local safety regulations in connection with its operations. The
    Company's compliance with these regulations has had no material
    adverse effect on its financial condition.
    
    Major Customers
    
     The Company has a customer in the tools segment, Sears,
    Roebuck and Co. ("Sears"), which accounted for 16% of consolidated
    sales in 1995.  Although the relationship with Sears is
    long-standing, the Company believes the loss of this business could
    have an adverse effect on its operations.
    
    
    ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
    
     The Company occupies over 4 million square feet of
    manufacturing, distribution, service and office space at various
    domestic and foreign locations.  The principal properties are listed
    below and are constructed of concrete, brick, cement, cinderblock or
    some combination of these materials.  The Company believes that its
    plants have adequate productive capacity and are suitably used for
    the manufacture of its products and that its warehouses,
    distribution centers and sales offices are suitably located and
        utilized for the marketing of its products and services.
    Location Principal Use     Owned/Leased     
    ....................................................................
    ..
    Tools and Components
    
    Springdale, AK                Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Springfield, MA               Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Gastonia, NC                  Manufacturing Leased  
    
    Fayetteville,AK (2)           Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Baltimore, MD                 Distribution  Leased  
    
    Brampton, Ontario             Distribution  Leased  
             
    
    Lakewood, NY                  Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Nashville, TN                 Distribution  Owned   
    
    Stow, OH Distribution         Owned         
    
    West Hartford, CT             Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Terryville, CT                Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Walworth, WI                  Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Dundee, Scotland              Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Sheffield, England            Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Clemson, SC                   Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Jonesboro, AK                 Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Jonesboro, AK                 Manufacturing Leased  
    
    Raleigh, NC                   Manufacturing Leased  
    
    Chicago, IL (3)               Manufacturing Owned
    
    Bloomfield, CT                Manufacturing Owned   
    
    LaVergne, TN                  Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Bowling Green, KY             Manufacturing Owned   
    
    
    
    Process/Environmental Controls
             
    Altoona, PA                   Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Elizabethtown, NC             Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Market Harborough, 
    England                       Manufacturing Leased  
    
    Sao Paulo,                    Manufacturing Owned   
    Brazil
    
    New Hartford 
    & Fairport, NY                Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Gurnee, IL                    Manufacturing Leased  
    
    Grenloch, NJ                  Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Providence, RI                Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Brighton, 
    England  Manufacturing        Leased        
    
    Aldingen, 
    Germany  Manufacturing        Owned         
    
    Aldingen, 
    Germany (2)                   Manufacturing Leased  
    
    Wehingen, 
    Germany (2)                   Manufacturing Leased  
    
    Eatontown, NJ                 Distribution  Leased  
    
    Broxbourne, 
    England  Distribution         Leased        
    
    Cleveland, OH (3)             Manufacturing Owned
    
    Goleta, CA                    Manufacturing Owned
    
    Lachine, Quebec               Manufacturing Leased
    
    Lancaster, SC                 Manufacturing Owned
    
    Moorpark, CA                  Manufacturing Leased
    
    Paso Robles, CA               Manufacturing Leased
    
    San Jose, CA                  Manufacturing Owned
    
    Spokane, WA                   Manufacturing Leased
    
    
             In addition to the facilities listed, the Company owns or
    leases various facilities including offices or properties in
    Washington, District of Columbia; Simsbury, Connecticut; as well as
    facilities in Uppermill, Livingston, Gloucester and Richmond, Great
    Britain; Melbourne and Sydney, Australia; Nagoya, Osaka and Tokyo,
    Japan; Toronto, Canada; Paris, Bron, Toulouse, Bordeaux, Tours and
    Selestat, France; and Stuttgart, Germany.
    
    
    ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
    
             A former subsidiary of the Company is engaged in litigation
    in several states with respect to product liability.  The Company
    sold the subsidiary in 1987.  Under the terms of the sale agreement,
    the Company agreed to indemnify the buyer of the subsidiary for
    product liability related to tools manufactured by the subsidiary
    prior to June 4, 1987.  The cases involve approximately 3,000
    plaintiffs, in state and federal courts.  All other major U.S. air
    tool manufacturers are also defendants.  The gravamen of these
    complaints is that the defendants' air tools, when used in different
    types of manufacturing environments over extended periods of time,
    were defective in design and caused various physical injuries.  The
    plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages.  The cases are in
    preliminary stages of discovery and pleading and the Company intends
    to defend its position vigorously.  The Company's maximum
    indemnification obligation under the contract is approximately
    $85,000,000.  The Company believes it has insurance coverage for all
    or a substantial part of the damages, if any.  The outcome of this
    litigation is not currently predictable.  
    
             JMC is a defendant in a class action tort suit.  The suit
    alleges exposure to chemicals and property devaluation resulting
    from wood treating operations previously conducted at a Louisiana
    site.  Both the size of the class and the damages are uncertain. 
    The Company has tendered the defense of the suit to its insurance
    carrier.  JMC believes that it may have adequate insurance coverage
    for the litigation; however, because of the above uncertainties, JMC
    is unable to determine at this time the potential liability, if any.
    
             In addition to the litigation noted above, the Company and
    its subsidiaries are from time to time subject to ordinary routine
    litigation incidental to their business.  The Company believes that
    the results of the above noted litigation and other pending legal
    proceedings would not have a materially adverse effect on the
    Company's financial condition.
                                       
    
    
    ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDER
    
             No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders
    during the fourth quarter of 1995.
         
    
    PART II
    
    ITEMS 5 THROUGH 8.
    
             The information required under Items 5 through 8 is
    included in the Registrant's Annual Report to its Shareholders for
    the year ended December 31, 1995, and is incorporated herein by
    reference.
    
    
    
    ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
             ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
    
    NONE
    
    PART III
    
    ITEMS 10 THROUGH 13.
    
             The information required under Items 10 through 13 is
    included in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its 1996 annual
    meeting, and is incorporated herein by reference.
    
    PART IV
    
    ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
    FORM 8-K
    
    
    
       a)        Document List
    
           1.        Financial Statements
                          Response to this portion of Item 14 is
                          submitted per the Index to Financial Statement
                          Schedules on page 8 of this report.
    
           2.          Supplementary Data and Financial Statement
                       Schedules             
                          Response to this portion of Item 14 is
                          submitted per the Index to Financial Statement
                          Schedules on page 8 of this report.
    
           3.          An Index of Exhibits is on page 9 of this report.
    
        b) Reports on Form 8-K filed in the fourth quarter of
           1995.
    
    
                  NONE
  
                         DANAHER CORPORATION
          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SUPPLEMENTARY DATA AND
                        FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                               
                                  
    
                                                          Page Number in:
    
                                                            Annual Report
                                              Form 10K     To Shareholders
    Annual Report:
    
    Report of Independent Public 
    Accountants on Schedule:                  15               
    
    Financial Statements:
    
    Consolidated Statements of 
    Earnings, year ended December 31, 
    1995, 1994, and 1993.                                           18
    
    Consolidated Balance Sheets, 
    December 31, 1995 and 1994                                      19
    
    Consolidated Statements of 
    Cash Flows, years ended 
    December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993                                20
    
    Consolidated Statements of 
    Stockholders' Equity, years
    ended December 31, 1995, 
    1994, and 1993                                                   21
    
    Notes to Consolidated 
    Financial Statements                                             22
    
    Supplemental Data:
    
    Selected Financial Data                                          14
    
    Market Prices of Common Stock                                    31
    
    Schedules:
    
    II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts         16
    
    
    
        Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted
    from this Annual Report because they are not required, are not
    applicable or the required information is included in the financial
    statements or the notes thereto.
    
    
    
    Exhibits:
    
    
    (3) Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.
    
       (a) The Articles of Incorporation of Danaher    Incorporated by
        (filed as Annex B to Danaher's Proxy             Reference
        Statement dated October 7, 1986).
        
       (b) The By-Laws of Danaher.                  Incorporated By
                                                       Reference
    
    (10) Material Contracts:
    
       (a) Employment Agreement between Danaher      Incorporated by
        Corporation and George M. Sherman dated        Reference
        as of January 2, 1990
        
       (b) Credit Agreement Dated As of September 7,  Incorporated by
        1990. Among Danaher Corporation, the             Reference
        Financial Institutions Listed Therein 
        and Bankers Trust Company as Agent.
        
       (c) Agreement as of November 1, 1990 between   Incorporated by
        Danaher Corporation, Easco Hand Tools, Inc.       Reference
        and Sears, Roebuck and Co.
    
       (d) Note Agreement as of November 1, 1992          Incorporated by
        Between Danaher Corporation and Lenders        Reference
        Referenced Therein.
        
       (e) Note Agreement as of April 1, 1993             Incorporated by
        Between Danaher Corporation and Lenders            Reference
        Referenced Therein.
        
       (f) Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of     Incorporated by
        August 20, 1995 Between Danaher Corporation         Reference
        and Affiliates and Joslyn Corporation
    
    (13) Annual Report to Securityholders
    
    (22) Subsidiaries of Registrant.
    
    (24) Consent of Independent Public Accountants.
    
    (27) Financial Data Schedules
    
        
                           SIGNATURES
                                
                                
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.
    
    DANAHER CORPORATION  
    
  
                                        By:    /s/ GEORGE M.SHERMAN     
                                                  George M. Sherman
                                                  President and Chief        
                                                  Executive Officer
    
    Date: March 21, 1996
    
    
    /s/  GEORGE M. SHERMAN    President and Chief Executive Officer
        George M. Sherman         
    
    /s/  STEVEN M. RALES       Chairman of the Board
        Steven M. Rales                
    
    /s/ MITCHELL P. RALES   Chairman of the Executive Committee
        Mitchell P. Rales 
    
    /s/ WALTER G. LOHR, JR. Director
        Walter G. Lohr, Jr.
    
    /s/ DONALD J. EHRLICH   Director
        Donald J. Ehrlich
    
    /s/ MORTIMER M. CAPLIN  Director
        Mortimer M. Caplin
    
    /s/ A. EMMET STEPHENSON, JR.  Director
        A. Emmet Stephenson, Jr.
    
    /s/ PATRICK W. ALLENDER     Senior Vice President-Chief Financial
        Patrick W. Allender     Officer and Secretary
    
     /s/   C. SCOTT BRANNAN        Vice President and Controller
            C. Scott Brannan  
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
    
                      ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                       
    
    To Danaher Corporation:
    
    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
    standards, the financial statements included in pages 7 to 23 of the
    Danaher Corporation and Subsidiaries' Annual Report to Shareholders
    incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our
    report thereon dated January 26, 1996.  Our audit was made for the
    purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. 
    The schedules listed in the index are the responsibility of the
    Company's management and are presented for the purpose of complying
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not a
    part of the basic financial statements.  These schedules have been
    subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the
    basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all
    material respects the financial data required to be set forth
    therein in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole.
    
    
                                       
                                       ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
    
    Washington, D.C.
        January 26, 1996
DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
    SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
    (000's omitted)
                   
    
               Additions
                      
    
                                                   Write
                     Balance   Charged             Offs,
Classification          at        to    Charged    Write     Balance
                    Beginning  Costs       to     Downs     at End
                       of         &       other     &        of
                    Period   Expenses  Accounts  Deductions   Period
    
    
    
Year Ended December 31, 1995
    
Allowances deducted 
from asset accounts:
    
Allowance for                                        4,148
doubtful accounts   $11,638  $ 4,847  $ 2,961(a)  $ 1,867(b)  $13,431 
    
    
Year Ended December 31, 1994                        
                          
Allowances deducted 
from asset accounts: 

Allowance for 
doubtful accounts   $ 8,043  $ 6,630   $ 487(a)   $ 3,522     $11,638
    
    
    
Year Ended December 31, 1993                        
           
Allowances deducted 
from asset accounts:               
           
Allowance for 
doubtful accounts    $ 6,350 $ 4,188    $   -      $ 2,495     $  8,043
    
    
    
    Notes: (a) - Amounts related to businesses acquired.
           (b) - Amounts related to businesses disposed of.

