
10-K


                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                      Washington, D.C.  20549
                                     
                              FORM 10-K
  (Mark One)
    
           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
  [ X ]              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                 OR
  [   ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
        For the transition period from ____to___Commission File
  Number:1-8089
                  
                         DANAHER CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
     
         Delaware                           59-1995548
    (State of incorporation)            (I.R.S.Employer
                                    Identification number)
    
    1250 24th Street, N.W., Suite 800
         Washington, D.C.                        20037
       (Address of Principal                   (Zip Code)
         Executive Offices)            
    
    Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  202-828-0850
    
    Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                                             
                     
                                     Name of Exchanges
    Title of each class              on which registered
    Common Stock $.01 par Value      New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                     Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.
    
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
    
                         NONE
                                             
    (Title of Class)
                                       
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
    required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to
    such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
    
       Yes  X                             No __
    
    
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
    Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
    contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
    Form  10-K or any amendment to this Form 10- K. [X]
    
    As of March 16, 1998, the number of shares of common stock outstanding
    was 58,537,110 and were held by approximately 3,000 holders.  The
    aggregate market value of common shares held by non-affiliates of the
    Registrant on such date was approximately $2.5 billion, based upon the
    closing price of the Company's common shares as quoted on the New York
    Stock Exchange composite tape on such date.
                                          
        EXHIBIT INDEX APPEARS ON PAGE 8 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                          
    Part II and Part IV incorporate certain information by reference from
    the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
    December 31, 1997.  With the exception of the pages of the Annual Report
    to Shareholders specifically incorporated herein by reference, the
    Annual Report to Shareholders is not deemed to be filed as part of this
    Form 10-K.
    
    Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the
    registrant's proxy statement for its 1998 annual meeting of
    stockholders.  With the exception of the pages of the 1998 Proxy
    Statement specifically incorporated herein by reference, the 1998 Proxy
    Statement is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form 10-K.

    Certain information included or incorporated by reference in this document
    may be deemed to be "forward looking statements" within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. 
    All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that address
    activities, events or developments that the Company intends, expects,
    projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are
    forward looking statements.  Such statements are characterized by
    terminology such as "believe," "anticipate," "should," "intend," "plan,"
    "will," "expects," "estimates," "projects," "positioned," "strategy," and
    similar expressions. These statements are based on assumptions and
    assessments made by the Company management in light of its experience
    and its perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected
    future developments and other factors it believes to be appropriate.  
    These forward looking statements are subject to a number of risks and 
    uncertainties, including but not limited to continuation of the Company's
    longstanding relationship with major customers, the Company's ability to
    integrate acquired businesses into its operations and realize planned
    synergies, the extent to which acquired businesses are able to meet the
    Company's expectations and operate profitably, changes in
    regulations (particularly environmental regulations) which could affect
    demand for products in the Process/Environmental Controls segment and
    unanticipated developments that could occur with respect to contingencies
    such as environmental matters and litigation.  In addition, the Company
    is subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the manufacturing
    sector generally including, but not limited to, economic, competitive,
    governmental and technological factors affecting the Company's
    operations, markets, products, services and prices.  Any such forward
    looking statements are not guarantees of future performances
    and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from 
    those envisaged by such forward looking statements.  The Company disclaims
    any duty to update any forward looking statements, all of which are 
    expressly qualified by the foregoing.
    
    
    ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
    
    
       The Company conducts its operations through two business segments: 
    Tools and Components and Process/Environmental Controls.
    
    Tools and Components
    
       The Tools and Components segment is comprised of the Danaher Hand
    Tool Group (including Special Markets, Professional Tool Division and
    Asian Tool Division), Matco Tools ("Matco"), Jacobs Chuck Manufacturing
    Company ("Jacobs"), Delta Consolidated Industries, Jacobs Vehicle
    Systems Company, Hennessy Industries and the hardware and electrical
    apparatus lines of Joslyn Manufacturing Company (JMC).  This segment is
    one of the largest domestic producers and distributors of general
    purpose mechanics' hand tools and automotive specialty tools.  Other
    products manufactured by these companies include tool boxes and storage
    devices, diesel engine retarders, wheel service equipment, drill chucks,
    custom designed headed tools and components, hardware and components for
    the power generation and transmission industries, high quality precision
    socket screws, fasteners, and high quality miniature precision parts.
    
       The Company's business strategy in this segment is focused on
    increasing sales to existing customers, broadening channels of
    distribution, developing new products, geographic expansion and
    achieving production efficiencies and enhanced quality and customer
    service through "Just-In-Time" and related manufacturing techniques.
    
       Danaher Tool Group (DTG) is one of the largest domestic producers
    of general purpose mechanics' hand tools (primarily ratchets, sockets
    and wrenches) and specialized automotive service tools for the
    professional and "do-it-yourself" markets.  DTG has been the principal
    manufacturer of Sears, Roebuck and Co.'s Craftsman   line of mechanics'
    hand tools for over 50 years.  Approximately 80% of the over 100 million
    pieces sold to Sears annually are sold in tool sets that include from
    three to 900 pieces.  Net sales to Sears were approximately 13% of total
    Company sales in 1997.
    
       DTG's Special Markets Group sells to Sears under a five year
    evergreen agreement, that requires Sears to purchase a significant
    portion of its annual requirements for its private-label Craftsman 
    mechanics' hand tool line from DTG, subject to certain conditions.
    
       For over 30 years, DTG has also been a primary supplier of
    specialized automotive service tools to NAPA, which has approximately
    6,500 outlets at present.  In addition, DTG has been the designated
    supplier of general purpose mechanics' hand tools to NAPA since 1983. 
    DTG specialized automotive service tools are also sold under the K-D
    Tools  brand, its industrial tools and products are also sold under the
    Armstrong  and Allen  brand names, and fastener products under the
    Holo-Krome  name are sold to independent distributors and other
    customers in the "do-it-yourself," professional automotive, commercial
    and industrial markets.
    
       Professional mechanics' tools are distributed by Matco which has
    approximately 1,300 independent mobile distributors who sell primarily
    to individual professional mechanics.  Matco is one of the leading
    suppliers in this market.
    
       The Company believes Jacobs is the market leader in the drill chuck
    business with its highly respected and well recognized brand name.
    
       The Company believes Delta is the market leader in boxes and other
    storage containers serving the vehicle aftermarket and manufactures and
    markets containers serving numerous specialty areas.
    
       Wheel service equipment is manufactured under the Coats , Bada 
    and Ammco  brand names.  Products include tire changers, wheel
    balancers, wheel weights and brake service equipment.  Wheel service
    equipment is sold primarily to wholesale distributors and national
    accounts.  These markets are served by the Company's sales personnel.
    
       Diesel engine retarders are manufactured at Jacobs Vehicle Systems
    Company.  The "Jake Brake " technology was developed by Jacobs Vehicle
    and represents the leading brand of engine retarders.  The product is
    sold by Jacobs' sales personnel to original equipment manufacturers and
    aftermarket distributors.
    
       JMC manufactures a wide variety of products used in the construction 
    and maintenance of electric power, telephone and cable television 
    systems.  Its products range from specialized fasteners to sophisticated
    castings and forgings.
    
       The electrical apparatus division of JMC manufactures surge
    protection devices rated as high as 468,000 volts for the electric power
    utility industry.  Surge arresters are designed to eliminate the
    damaging effects of electrical surges caused by lightning and other
    overvoltage conditions on a utility's power system.
    
       The major raw materials used by this segment, including high
    quality steel, are available from a variety of sources in sufficient
    quantities.
    
    Process/Environmental Controls
    
       The Process/Environmental Controls segment is comprised of the
    Veeder-Root Company ("Veeder-Root"), Danaher Controls, Partlow/West,
    Anderson Instruments, West Instruments, QualiTROL Corporation, A.L. Hyde
    Company, Hengstler, McCrometer, the controls product line business units
    of Joslyn Corporation, Namco Controls, Dolan-Jenner, M&M Precision
    Systems, TxPort, Communications Technology Corporation and Gems Sensors,
    acquired in August, 1997.  These companies produce and sell underground
    storage tank leak detection systems and temperature, level and position
    sensing devices, power switches and controls, communication line
    products, power protection products, liquid flow measuring devices,
    telecommunications products, quality assurance products and systems, and
    electronic and mechanical counting and controlling devices.  These
    products are distributed by the Company's sales personnel and
    independent representatives to original equipment manufacturers,
    distributors and other end users.
    
       The Company's strategy in the Process/Environmental Controls
    segment is to concentrate on the rapid expansion of its environmental
    controls product line, including the Veeder-Root  storage tank leak
    detection systems business.  The Company believes that Veeder-Root is
    the premier manufacturer of state-of-the-art tank measuring and leak
    detection systems for underground fuel storage tanks and, accordingly,
    is uniquely positioned to respond to the increased demand for these
    products fueled by environmental regulations.
    
       The Company is also expanding its other offerings in the
    environmental controls product line to encompass applications related to
    markets other than petroleum storage and to address nonregulatory
    business requirements.  This expansion program includes both internally
    developed new product offerings as well as selective product line
    acquisitions.
    
       In its instruments product line, the Company's strategy is to
    continue enhancing its global controls and instrument position by both
    new product development and complementary acquisitions.  The companies
    within the Instrument Group have significant synergies in both product
    offerings and channels of distribution.  The Company's plan is to leverage
    these synergies in product design, engineering and manufacturing, and
    product marketing.
    
       Namco is a provider of part presence, part position and machine
    status sensing solutions for industrial process automation applications. 
    M&M Precision Systems provides both quality assurance products and
    systems which enhance both quality and manufacturing effectiveness as
    well as motion products which are generally components of other devices.
    
       Telecommunications products include automated data transmission
    analyzers, single and multi-function test equipment, computerized cable
    test and database management systems, digital data access devices and
    molded cable closures and terminals used in outside plant and network
    applications.
    
       Other business lines within this segment include extruded
    thermoplastic mill shapes and custom molded plastic products.

       In March, 1998, the Company acquired Pacific Scientific Company. 
    Pacific Scientific has two major business segments: (i) Electrical
    Equipment and (ii) Safety Equipment.  Nearly half of the Company's
    sales consists of electric motors, drives and controls.  These electric 
    motors and controls are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers
    who incorporate them into a wide variety of products.  Pacific Scientific
    motors are used in factory automation, medical, printing, plastic 
    extrusion and molding, paper converting, vending, textile, aerospace,
    fitness and many other types of equipment.  Safety equipment includes 
    mainly fire detection and suppression equipment, crew restraints, flight
    control and pyrotechnic devices.  Safety equipment is sold mainly in the
    aviation and aerospace industry.  The Company also provides worldwide 
    sales, service and repair of its products for airlines and other users
    of safety equipment.  Operating results from Pacific Scientific will be
    included with the Company's results, beginning with the first quarter of
    1998.
    
       The raw materials utilized by companies in this segment  are stock
    items, principally metals and plastic, electrical and electronic
    components.  These materials are readily available from a number of
    sources in sufficient quantities.
    
    Patents, Licenses, etc.
    
       The Company has patents of its own and has acquired licenses under
    patents of others.  The Company does not consider that its business, as
    a whole, is dependent on any single patent, group of patents, trademark
    or franchise.  The Company does, however, offer many patented products
    and is periodically engaged in litigation concerning patents and
    licenses.
    
    Seasonal Nature of Business
    
       As a whole, the Company's businesses are not subject to material
    seasonal fluctuations.
    
    Backlog
    
       The Company's products are manufactured primarily in advance of
    order and either shipped or assembled from stock.  Backlogs are not
    significant as sales are often dependent on orders requiring immediate
    shipment from inventory.
    
    Employee Relations
    
       At December 31, 1997, the Company employed approximately 13,200
    persons.  Of these, approximately 2,200 were hourly-rated unionized
    employees.  The Company considers its labor relations to be good.
    
    Research and Development
    
       The Company's research and development expenditures were
    $57,008,000 for 1997, $46,964,000 for 1996 and $36,400,000 for 1995.
    
    Environmental and Safety Regulations
    
       Certain of the Company's operations are subject to federal, state
    and local environmental laws and regulations which impose limitations on
    the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish
    standards for treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous
    wastes.  The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with
    applicable environmental laws and regulations.
    
       JMC previously operated wood treating facilities that chemically
    preserved utility poles, pilings and railroad ties.  All such treating
    operations were discontinued or sold prior to 1982.  These facilities
    used wood preservatives that included creosote, pentachlorophenol and
    chromium-arsenic-copper.  While preservatives were handled in accordance
    with then existing law, environmental law now imposes retroactive 
    liability, in some circumstances, on persons who owned or operated 
    wood-treating sites.  JMC is remediating some of its former sites and
    will remediate other sites in the future.  The Company has made a 
    provision for environmental remediation; however, there can be no 
    assurance that estimates of environmental liabilities will not change.
       
       In addition to environmental compliance costs, the Company may
    incur costs related to alleged environmental damage associated with past
    or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials
    handling practices.  For example, generators of hazardous substances
    found in disposal sites at which environmental problems are alleged to
    exist, as well as the owners of those sites and certain other classes of
    persons, are subject to claims brought by state and federal regulatory
    agencies pursuant to statutory authority.  The Company believes that its
    liability, if any, for past or current waste handling practices will not
    have a material adverse effect on its results of operation, financial 
    condition and cash flow.
    
       The Company must also comply with various federal, state and local
    safety regulations in connection with its operations. The Company's
    compliance with these regulations has had no material adverse effect on
    its financial condition.
    
    Major Customers
    
       The Company has a customer in the tools segment, Sears, Roebuck
    and Co. ("Sears"), which accounted for 13% of consolidated sales in
    1997.  Although the relationship with Sears is long-standing, the
    Company believes the loss or material reduction of this business could
    have a material adverse effect on its operations.
    
    
    ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
    
       The Company occupies over 4 million square feet of manufacturing,
    distribution, service and office space at various domestic and foreign
    locations.  The principal properties are listed below and are
    constructed of concrete, brick, cement, cinderblock or some combination
    of these materials.  The Company believes that its plants have adequate
    productive capacity and are suitably used for the manufacture of its
    products and that its warehouses, distribution centers and sales offices
    are suitably located and utilized for the marketing of its products and
    services.
    
    
    Location     Principal Use     Owned/Leased     
    ......................................................................
    Tools and Components
    
    Springdale, AK                    Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Springfield, MA                   Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Gastonia, NC Manufacturing        Leased        
    
    Fayetteville,AK (2)               Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Baltimore, MD                     Distribution  Leased  
    
    Brampton, Ontario                 Distribution  Leased  
                 
    
    Lakewood, NY Manufacturing        Owned         
    
    Nashville, TN                     Distribution  Owned   
    
    Stow, OH     Distribution         Owned         
    
    West Hartford, CT                 Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Terryville, CT                    Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Walworth, WI Manufacturing        Owned         
    
    Dundee, Scotland                  Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Sheffield, England                Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Clemson, SC  Manufacturing        Owned         
    
    Jonesboro, AK                     Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Jonesboro, AK                     Manufacturing Leased  
    
    Raleigh, NC  Manufacturing        Leased        
    
    Chicago, IL (3)                   Manufacturing Owned
    
    Bloomfield, CT                    Manufacturing Owned   
    
    LaVergne, TN Manufacturing        Owned         
    
    Bowling Green, KY                 Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Suzhou, China                     Manufacturing Owned
    
    Shanghai, China                   Manufacturing Owned
    
    Taichung, Taiwan                  Manufacturing Leased
    
    Dallas, TX   Manufacturing        Leased
    
    
    Process/Environmental Controls
                 
    Altoona, PA  Manufacturing        Owned         
    
    Elizabethtown, NC                 Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Market Harborough, 
    England      Manufacturing        Leased        
    
    Sao Paulo,                        
    Brazil       Manufacturing        Owned
    
    New Hartford 
    & Fairport, NY                    Manufacturing Owned   
    
    Gurnee, IL   Manufacturing        Leased        
    
    Grenloch, NJ Manufacturing        Owned         
    
    Brighton, 
    England      Manufacturing        Leased        
    
    Aldingen, 
    Germany      Manufacturing        Owned         
    
    Aldingen, 
    Germany (2)  Manufacturing        Leased        
    
    Wehingen, 
    Germany (2)  Manufacturing        Leased        
    
    Eatontown, NJ                     Distribution  Leased  
    
    Broxbourne, 
    England      Distribution         Leased        
    
    Cleveland, OH (3)                 Manufacturing Owned
    
    Goleta, CA   Manufacturing        Owned
    
    Lachine, Quebec                   Manufacturing Leased
    
    Lancaster, SC                     Manufacturing Owned
    
    Moorpark, CA Manufacturing        Leased
    
    Paso Robles, CA                   Manufacturing Leased
    
    San Jose, CA Manufacturing        Owned
    
    Hemet, CA    Manufacturing        Owned
    
    Atlanta, GA  Manufacturing        Owned
    
    Madison, AL  Manufacturing        Leased
    
    Etobicoke, 
    Canada       Manufacturing        Leased
    
    Highland Heights,
    OH           Manufacturing        Owned
    
    Herzhorn, Germany                 Manufacturing Owned
    
    West Carollton, OH                Manufacturing Owned
    
    Loffingen, Germany                Manufacturing Owned
    
    Tamworth,  
    England      Manufacturing        Leased
    
    Basingstoke, 
    England      Manufacturing        Owned
    
    Baretswil,
    Switzerland  Manufacturing        Owned
    
    Plainville, CT                    Manufacturing Owned
    
    
     In addition to the facilities listed, the Company owns or
    leases various facilities including offices or properties in Washington,
    District of Columbia; Simsbury, Connecticut; as well as facilities in
    Uppermill, Livingston, Gloucester and Richmond, Great Britain; Melbourne
    and Sydney, Australia; Nagoya, Osaka and Tokyo, Japan; Toronto, Canada;
    Paris, Bron, Toulouse, Bordeaux, Tours and Selestat, France; and
    Stuttgart, Germany.
    
    
    ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
    
     A former subsidiary of the Company is engaged in litigation in
    several states with respect to product liability.  The principal case,
    Patton, et al v. Chicago Pneumatic Tool Company, was filed in United 
    States District Court in Jackson Co., MS in 1989.  There are other
    related cases.  The Company sold the subsidiary in 1987.  Under the 
    terms of the sale agreement, the Company agreed to indemnify the buyer
    of the subsidiary for product liability related to tools manufactured by
    the subsidiary prior to June 4, 1987.  The cases involve approximately
    3,000 plaintiffs, in state and federal courts.  All other major U.S. air
    tool manufacturers are also defendants.  The gravamen of these complaints
    is that the defendants' air tools, when used in different types of
    manufacturing environments over extended periods of time, were defective 
    in design and caused various physical injuries.  The plaintiffs seek
    compensatory and punitive damages.  The cases are in preliminary stages
    of discovery and pleading and the Company intends to defend its position
    vigorously.  The Company's maximum indemnification obligation under the
    contract is approximately $85,000,000.  The Company believes it has
    insurance coverage for all or a substantial part of the damages, if any. 
    The outcome of this litigation is not currently predictable.  
    
     JMC is a defendant in a class action tort suit, Henry L. Johnson,
    et. al. v. Lincoln Creosote Company, Inc., et. al., filed in the 26th
    Judicial District Court of the State of Louisiana, in Bossier Parish,
    Louisiana.  The suit alleges exposure to chemicals and property
    devaluation resulting from wood treating operations previously conducted
    at a Louisiana site.  Both the size of the class and the damages are
    uncertain.  The Company has tendered the defense of the suit to its
    insurance carrier.  JMC believes that it may have adequate insurance
    coverage for the litigation; however, because of the above uncertainties,
    JMC is unable to determine at this time the potential liability, if any.
    
     In addition to the litigation noted above, the Company and its
    subsidiaries are from time to time subject to ordinary routine
    litigation incidental to their business.  The Company believes that the
    results of the above noted litigation and other pending legal
    proceedings would not have a materially adverse effect on the Company's
    financial condition.
                                       
    
    ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDER
    
     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
    the fourth quarter of 1997.
    
    
    PART II
    
    
    ITEMS 5 THROUGH 8.
    
     The information required under Items 5 through 8 is included in
    the Registrant's Annual Report to its Shareholders for the year ended
    December 31, 1997, and is incorporated herein by reference.
    
    
    ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
    
    NONE
    
    
    
    PART III
    
    
    ITEMS 10 THROUGH 13.
    
     The information required under Items 10 through 13 is included
    in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its 1998 annual meeting, and is
    incorporated herein by reference.
    
    
    
    PART IV
    
    
    ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM
    8-K
    
     a) Document List
    
        1.  Financial Statements
               Response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted
               per the Index to Financial Statement Schedules on
               page 12 of this report.
    
        2.  Supplementary Data and Financial Statement Schedules
               Response to this portion of Item 14 is
               submitted per the Index to Financial Statement
               Schedules on page 12 of this report.
    
        3.  An Index of Exhibits is on page 13 of this report.
    
     b) Reports on Form 8-K filed in the fourth quarter of 1997.
    
    
                  NONE
                
                DANAHER CORPORATION
    INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SUPPLEMENTARY DATA AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                    
                                       Page Number in:
    
                                                 Annual Report
                                      Form 10K   To Shareholders
    Annual Report:
    
    Report of Independent Public 
    Accountants on Schedule                 15
    
    Financial Statements:                              
  
    Consolidated Statements of 
    Earnings, year ended December 31, 
    1997, 1996, and 1995                              7
    
    Consolidated Balance Sheets, 
    December 31, 1997 and 1996                        8
    
    Consolidated Statements of 
    Cash Flows, years ended 
    December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995                 9
    
    Consolidated Statements of 
    Stockholders' Equity, years
    ended December 31, 1997, 
    1996, and 1995                                    10
    
    Notes to Consolidated 
    Financial Statements                              11-23
    
    Supplemental Data:
    
    Selected Financial Data                           1
    
    Market Prices of Common Stock                     27
    
    Schedules:
    
    II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   16
    
    
     Schedules other than those listed above have been
    omitted from this Annual Report because they are not
    required, are not applicable or the required information is
    included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.
    
    
    
        
    
    Exhibits:
    
    
    (3) Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.
    
       (a)The Articles of Incorporation of Danaher   Incorporated by 
         (filed as Annex B to Danaher's Proxy            Reference
          Statement dated October 7, 1986).
    
       (b)The By-Laws of Danaher.                    Incorporated By         
                                                       Reference
    (10) Material Contracts:
    
       (a)Employment Agreement between Danaher       Incorporated by
          Corporation and George M. Sherman dated        Reference
          as of January 2, 1990
    
       (b)Credit Agreement Dated As of September 7,  Incorporated by
          1990. Among Danaher Corporation, the           Reference
          Financial Institutions Listed Therein 
          and Bankers Trust Company as Agent.
    
       (c)Agreement as of November 1, 1990 between   Incorporated by
          Danaher Corporation, Easco Hand Tools, Inc.    Reference
          and Sears, Roebuck and Co.
    
       (d)Note Agreement as of November 1, 1992      Incorporated by
          Between Danaher Corporation and Lenders        Reference
          Referenced Therein.
    
       (e)Note Agreement as of April 1, 1993         Incorporated by
          Between Danaher Corporation and Lenders        Reference
          Referenced Therein.

       (f)Danaher Corporation 1987 Stock Option Plan  Incorporated by
                                                         Reference

       (g)Employment Agreement between Danaher        Incorporated by
           Corporation and John P. Watson dated as       Reference
           of January 17, 1991
    
    (13) Annual Report to Securityholders
    
    (22) Subsidiaries of Registrant.
    
    (24) Consent of Independent Public Accountants.
    
    (27) Financial Data Schedules
    
        
                               SIGNATURES
                                    
                                    
          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
    report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
    authorized.
    
    
                                      DANAHER CORPORATION
    
    
    
                                      By:    /s/ GEORGE M. SHERMAN  
                                             George M. Sherman
                                             President and Chief 
                                             Executive Officer
    
    Date: March 16, 1998
    
    
    /s/  GEORGE M. SHERMAN          President and Chief Executive Officer
         George M. Sherman
    
    /s/  STEVEN M. RALES            Chairman of the Board
         Steven M. Rales
    
    /s/  MITCHELL P. RALES          Chairman of the Executive Committee
         Mitchell P. Rales
    
    /s/   WALTER G. LOHR, JR.       Director
          Walter G. Lohr, Jr.
    
    /s/   DONALD J. EHRLICH         Director
          Donald J. Ehrlich
    
    /s/   MORTIMER M. CAPLIN        Director
          Mortimer M. Caplin
    
    /s/   A. EMMET STEPHENSON, JR.  Director
          A. Emmet Stephenson, Jr.
    
    /s/   PATRICK W. ALLENDER       Senior Vice President-Chief Financial    
          Patrick W. Allender       Officer and Secretary
    
    /s/   C. SCOTT BRANNAN          Vice President and Controller
              C. Scott Brannan
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
    
                    ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                     
    
    To Danaher Corporation:
    
    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
    standards, the financial statements included in pages 7 to 10 of the
    Danaher Corporation and Subsidiaries' Annual Report to Shareholders
    incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report
    thereon dated January 29, 1998.  Our audit was made for the purpose of
    forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.  The schedules
    listed in the index are the responsibility of the Company's management
    and are presented for the purpose of complying with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission's rules and are not a part of the basic financial
    statements.  These schedules have been subjected to the auditing
    procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and,
    in our opinion, fairly state in all material respects the financial data
    required to be set forth therein in relation to the financial statements
    taken as a whole.
    
    
                                       
                                       ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
    
    Washington, D.C.
      January 29, 1998
DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
    SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
    (000's omitted)
                             
    
    
    
                                  Additions            Write
                         Balance   Charged             Offs,
    Classification          at        to    Charged    Write     Balance
                        Beginning   Costs      to      Downs      at End
                            of        &      other       &         of
                         Period   Expenses  Accounts  Deductions  Period
    
    
    Year Ended December 31, 1997
    Allowances deducted 
    from asset accounts: 
    
    Allowance for 
    doubtful accounts    $14,868   $ 6,820   $   510(a) $ 3,688    $18,510
    
    Year Ended December 31, 1996
    
    Allowances deducted 
    from asset accounts: 
    
    Allowance for 
    doubtful accounts:   $13,431   $ 5,763   $   507(a) $ 4,833    $14,868
    
    
    Year Ended December 31, 1995
    
    Allowances deducted 
    from asset accounts:
    
    Allowance for                                         4,148
    doubtful accounts:   $11,638   $ 4,847   $ 2,961(a) $ 1,867(b) $13,431
    
    
    
                                                       
    Notes:(a) - Amounts related to businesses acquired.
          (b) - Amounts related to businesses disposed of.
    
        
    
    
    EXHIBIT 24
    
    
    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
    
                                     
    As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the
    incorporation of our reports included (or incorporated by
    reference) in this Form 10-K, into the Company's previously
    filed Registration Statement File No. 33-32402.
    
                                   ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
    
    
    
    
    Washington, D.C.
    March 17, 1998
    
    
  

