
10-K


                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                      Washington, D.C.  20549
                                  
                             FORM 10-K
                                   
     (Mark One)
     
      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE    
                                  
     [ X ]          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
            OR
              [   ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
     OF THE
                                           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                          
     For the transition period from ____to___Commission File
     Number:1-8089
     
     DANAHER CORP           ORATION
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                           
     Delaware                                59-1995548
     (State of incorporation)                (I.R.S.Employer
                                             Identification
                                             number)
     
     1250 24th Street, N.W., Suite 800
     Washington, D.C.                       20037
     (Address of Principal                  (Zip Code)
     Executive Offices)            
     
     Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 
     202-828-0850
        
              Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
     Act:
                      
                                                             
                                        Name of Exchanges
     Title of each class                on which registered
     Common Stock $.01 par Value        New York Stock
                                        Exchange, Inc.
                                        Pacific Stock
                                        Exchange, Inc.
     
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
     Act:
              
                            NONE
                    
     (Title of Class)
        
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
     filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
     15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
     preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such
     filing requirements for the past 90 days.
     
     Yes  X                            No
                    
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
     filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
     contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
     best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
     information statements incorporated by reference in
     Part III of this Form  10-K or any amendment to this
     Form 10- K. [X]
     
     As of March 20, 1995, the number of shares of common
     stock outstanding was 58,438,288 and were held by
     approximately 2,800 holders.  The aggregate market
     value of common shares held by non-affiliates of the
     Registrant on such date was approximately $900 million,
     based upon the closing price of the Company's common
     shares as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange
     composite tape on such date.
                                           
     EXHIBIT INDEX APPEARS ON PAGE 8 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED
     BY REFERENCE
                                 
     Part II and Part IV incorporate certain information by
     reference from the registrant's Annual Report to
     Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1994. 
     With the exception of the pages of the Annual Report to
     Shareholders specifically incorporated herein by
     reference, the Annual Report to Shareholders is not
     deemed to be filed as part of this Form 10-K.
     
     Part III incorporates certain information by reference
     from the registrant's proxy statement for its 1995
     annual meeting of stockholders.  With the exception of
     the pages of the 1995 proxy statement specifically
     incorporated herein by reference, the 1995 proxy
     statement is not deemed to be filed as part of this
     Form 10-K.
     
     ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
     
     General
     
          Danaher Corporation ("Danaher" or the "Company"),
     originally DMG, Inc., was organized in 1969 as a
     Massachusetts real estate investment trust.  In 1978 it
     was reorganized as a Florida corporation under the name
     Diversified Mortgage Investors, Inc. ("DMI") which in a
     second reorganization in 1980 became a subsidiary of a
     newly created holding company named DMG, Inc.  The
     Company adopted the name Danaher in 1984 and was
     reincorporated as a Delaware corporation following the
     1986 annual meeting of shareholders.
     
          The Company conducts its operations through three
     business segments:  Tools, Process/Environmental
     Controls and Transportation Products.
     
     Tools
     
          The Tools segment is comprised of the Danaher Tool
     Group (including Special Markets and Professional Tool
     Division, which includes Armstrong  Bros. Tool Co., a
     premier manufacturer and marketer of industrial hand
     tools), Matco Tools ("Matco"), Jacobs Chuck
     Manufacturing Company ("Jacobs"), Iseli Company
     ("Iseli") and Delta Consolidated Industries, which was
     acquired in November, 1994.  This segment is one of the
     largest domestic producers and distributors of general
     purpose mechanics' hand tools and automotive specialty
     tools.  Other products manufactured by these companies
     include drill chucks, custom designed headed tools and
     components, high quality precision fasteners,  tool
     boxes and storage containers, and high quality
     miniature precision parts.
     
     
          The Company's Tools business strategy is focused
     on increasing sales to existing customers, broadening
     channels of distribution, developing new products and
     achieving production efficiencies and enhanced quality
     and customer service through "Just-In-Time" and related
     manufacturing techniques.
     
     
          Danaher Tool Group (DTG) is one of the largest
     domestic producers of general purpose mechanics' hand
     tools (primarily ratchets, sockets and wrenches) and
     specialized automotive service tools for the
     professional and "do-it-yourself" markets.  DTG has
     been the principal manufacturer of Sears, Roebuck and
     Co.'s Craftsman  line of mechanics' hand tools for over
     50 years.  Approximately 80% of the over 100 million
     pieces sold to Sears annually are sold in tool sets
     that include from three to 900 pieces.  Net sales to
     Sears were approximately 17% of total sales in 1994.
     
          DTG's Special Markets Group sells to Sears under a
     five year evergreen agreement, that requires Sears to
     purchase a significant portion of its annual
     requirements for its private-label Craftsman 
     mechanics' hand tool line from DTG.  
     
          For over 30 years, DTG has also been a primary
     supplier of specialized automotive service tools to
     NAPA, which has approximately 6,500 outlets at present. 
     In addition, DTG has been the designated supplier of
     general purpose mechanics' hand tools to NAPA since
     1983.  DTG specialized automotive service tools are
     also sold under the K-D Tools  brand, its industrial
     tools and products are also sold under the Armstrong 
     and Allen  brand names, and fastener products under the
     Holo-Krome name are sold to independent distributors
     and other customers in the "do-it-yourself,"
     professional automotive, commercial and industrial
     markets.
     
          Professional mechanics' tools are distributed by
     Matco which has approximately 1,100 independent mobile
     distributors who sell primarily to individual
     professional mechanics.  Matco is one of the leading
     suppliers in this market.
     
          Jacobs is the market leader in the drill chuck
     business with its highly respected and well recognized
     brand name and Iseli is a leader in the manufacture of
     miniature precision parts produced on Swiss screw
     machines.
     
          Delta is the market leader in boxes and other
     storage containers serving the vehicle aftermarket and
     manufactures and markets containers serving numerous
     specialty areas.
     
          The major raw materials used by this segment,
     including high quality steel, are available from a
     variety of sources in sufficient quantities.
     
     Process/Environmental Controls
     
          The Process/Environmental Controls segment is
     comprised of the Veeder-Root Company ("Veeder-Root"),
     the Danaher Instruments Group (comprised of Danaher
     Controls, Partlow  Corporation, Gulton
     Industries-Graphic Instruments, Eagle Signal
     Instruments, LFE Instruments West Instruments, Ltd.,
     and  QualiTROL Corporation), Hengstler GmbH (which was
     acquired in December, 1994) and the A.L. Hyde Company. 
     These companies produce and sell underground storage
     tank leak detection systems and temperature, level and
     position sensing devices, liquid flow measuring devices
     and electronic and mechanical counting and controlling
     devices.  These products are distributed by the
     Company's sales personnel and independent
     representatives to original equipment manufacturers,
     distributors and other end users.
     
          
          The Company's strategy in the Process/
     Environmental Controls segment is to concentrate on the
     rapid expansion of its environmental controls product
     line, including the Veeder-Root TM storage tank leak
     detection systems business.  The Company believes that
     Veeder-Root is the premier manufacturer of
     state-of-the-art tank measuring and leak detection
     systems for underground fuel storage tanks and,
     accordingly, is uniquely positioned to respond to the
     increased demand for these products fueled by
     environmental regulations.
     
          Veeder-Root is also the predominant worldwide
     supplier of mechanical gasoline pump computing devices
     and a manufacturer of other measuring and counting
     devices.
     
          Other business lines within this segment include
     extruded thermoplastic mill shapes and custom molded
     plastic products.
     
          The raw materials utilized by companies in this
     segment  are stock items, principally metals and
     plastic, electrical and electronic components.  These
     materials are readily available from a number of
     sources in sufficient quantities.Transportation
          
          The Transportation segment includes Hennessy
     Industries, Inc. ("Hennessy"), Jacobs Brake and Fayette
     Tubular Products ("Fayette").  These companies are
     leading manufacturers and distributors of automotive
     and transportation products used by the automotive
     aftermarket and original equipment manufacturers. 
     Products in this segment include wheel service
     equipment, diesel engine retarders and automobile air
     conditioning components.
     
          The results of the Transportation Products
     business are affected by the level of sales in the
     automotive aftermarket, heavy duty diesel truck and
     domestic automobile industries.  The Company's strategy
     is to reduce the impact of the cyclicality in this
     business segment by expanding its customer base for the
     wheel service equipment products and "Jake Brake" and
     achieving production efficiencies and enhanced quality
     and customer service through "Just-In-Time" and related
     manufacturing techniques.
     
          Wheel service equipment is manufactured under the
     Coats, Bada and Ammco brand names.  Products include
     tire changers, wheel balancers, wheel weights and brake
     service equipment.  Wheel service equipment is sold
     primarily to wholesale distributors and national
     accounts.  These markets are served by the Company's
     sales personnel.
     
          Diesel engine retarders are manufactured at
     Jacobs.  The "Jake Brake" technology was developed by
     Jacobs and represents the premier brand of engine
     retarders.  The product is sold by Jacobs' sales
     personnel to original equipment manufacturers and
     aftermarket distributors.
     
          Automotive air-conditioning components and other
     tubular products are produced by Fayette which sells
     its products to original equipment manufacturers
     through its direct sales force.  The major raw
     materials used by this segment include high quality
     steel forgings and castings, aluminum and steel tubing,
     rubber hose, metal couplings, paints, adhesives and
     chemical coatings.  These materials are available in
     sufficient quantities from a variety of sources.  
     
     Patents, Licenses, etc.
     
          The Company has patents of its own and has
     acquired licenses under patents of others.  The Company
     does not consider that its business, as a whole, is
     dependent on any single patent, group of patents,
     trademark or franchise.  The Company does, however,
     offer many patented products and is periodically
     engaged in litigation concerning patents and licenses.
     
     Seasonal Nature of Business
     
          As a whole, the Company's businesses are not
     subject to material seasonal fluctuations.
     
     Backlog
     
          The Company's products are manufactured primarily
     in advance of order and either shipped or assembled
     from stock.  Backlogs are not significant as sales are
     often dependent on orders requiring immediate shipment
     from inventory.
     
     Employee Relations
     
          At December 31, 1994, the Company employed
     approximately 9,960 persons.  Of these, approximately
     1,800 were hourly-rated unionized employees.  The
     Company considers its labor relations to be good.
     Research and Development
     
          The Company's research and development
     expenditures were $26,800,000 for 1994, $24,000,000 for
     1993 and  $19,300,000 for 1992.
     
     Environmental and Safety Regulations
     
          Certain of the Company's operations are subject to
     federal, state and local environmental laws and
     regulations which impose limitations on the discharge
     of pollutants into the air and water and establish
     standards for treatment, storage and disposal of solid
     and hazardous wastes.  The Company believes that it is
     in substantial compliance with applicable environmental
     laws and regulations.
     
          In addition to environmental compliance costs, the
     Company may incur costs related to alleged
     environmental damage associated with past or current
     waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials
     handling practices.  For example, generators of
     hazardous substances found in disposal sites at which
     environmental problems are alleged to exist, as well as
     the owners of those sites and certain other classes of
     persons, are subject to claims brought by state and
     federal regulatory agencies pursuant to statutory
     authority.  The Company believes that its liability, if
     any, for past or current waste handling practices will
     not have a material adverse effect on its financial
     condition.
     
          The Company must also comply with various federal,
     state and local safety regulations in connection with
     its operations. The Company's compliance with these
     regulations has had no material adverse effect on its
     financial condition.
     
     Major Customers
     
          The Company has a customer in the tools segment,
     Sears, Roebuck and Co. ("Sears"), which accounted for
     17% of consolidated sales in 1994.  Although the
     relationship with Sears is long-standing, the Company
     believes the loss of this business could have an
     adverse effect on its operations.
     
     
     ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
     
          The Company occupies over 4 million square feet of
     manufacturing, distribution, service and office space
     at various domestic and foreign locations.  The
     principal properties are listed below and are
     constructed of concrete, brick and cement, cinderblock
     or some combination of these materials.  The Company
     believes that its plants have adequate productive
     capacity and are suitably used for the manufacture of
     its products and that its warehouses, distribution
     centers and sales offices are suitably located and
     utilized for the marketing of its products and
     services.
     
     Location       Principal Use  Owned/Leased   Approx.
                                                  Sq.Ft of
                                                  Floor Area
     
     Tools
     
     Springdale, AK Manufacturing  Owned          207,000
     
     Springfield,MA Manufacturing  Owned          276,000
     
     Gastonia, NC   Manufacturing  Leased         225,000
     
     Fayetteville,AK
      (2)           Manufacturing  Owned          134,000
     
     Baltimore, MD  Distribution   Leased         167,000
     
     Brampton, 
     Ontario        Distribution   Leased          14,000
     
     Chicago, IL    Manufacturing  Owned          216,000
     
     Lakewood, NY   Manufacturing  Owned          112,000
     
     Nashville, TN  Distribution   Owned          132,000
     
     Stow, OH       Distribution   Owned           50,000
     
     West Hartford, 
     CT             Manufacturing  Owned          234,000
     
     Terryville, CT Manufacturing  Owned          120,000
     
     Walworth, WI   Manufacturing  Owned           85,000
     
     Dundee,
     Scotland       Manufacturing  Owned          114,000
     
     Sheffield, 
     England        Manufacturing  Owned          146,000
     
     Clemson, SC    Manufacturing  Owned           74,000
     
     Jonesboro, AK  Manufacturing  Owned           77,000
     
     Jonesboro, AK  Manufacturing  Leased         315,000
     
     Raleigh, NC    Manufacturing  Leased         215,000
     
     
     
     Process/
     Environmental 
     Controls  
     Altoona, PA    Manufacturing  Owned          146,000
     
     
     Elizabethtown, 
     NC             Manufacturing  Owned          182,000
     
     
     Marketharborough, 
     England        Manufacturing  Leased          10,000
     
     
     Sao Paulo, 
     Brazil         Manufacturing  Owned           52,000
     
     
     New Hartford 
     & Fairport, NY Manufacturing  Owned          121,000
     
     Gurnee, Il     Manufacturing  Leased          36,000
     
     Grenloch, NJ   Manufacturing  Owned           93,000
     
     Providence, RI Manufacturing  Owned           58,000
     
     Brighton, 
     England        Manufacturing  Leased          26,000
     
     Chesterland, 
     OH             Manufacturing  Owned           44,000
     
     Aldingen, 
     Germany        Manufacturing  Owned          216,000
     
     Aldingen, 
     Germany (2)    Manufacturing  Leased          85,000
     
     Wehingen, 
     Germany (2)    Manufacturing  Leased          48,000
     
     Eatontown, NJ  Distribution   Leased          22,700
     
     Aulmay-sons-Bois,
     France         Manufacturing  Owned           41,000
     
     Broxbounrem, 
     England        Distribution   Leased          25,000
     
     Transportation
     
     Fayette, OH    Manufacturing  Owned          200,000
     
     
     Reading, MI    Manufacturing  Owned            73,000
     
     Livingston, TN Manufacturing  Owned            60,000
     
     Bloomfield, CT Manufacturing  Owned           283,000
     
     LaVergne, TN   Manufacturing  Owned           172,000
     
     Bowling Green, 
     KY             Manufacturing  Owned           103,000
     
     
          In addition to the facilities listed, the Company
     owns or leases various facilities including offices or
     properties in Washington, District of Columbia;
     Simsbury, Connecticut; Troy, Michigan; as well as
     facilities in Uppermill, Livingston, Gloucester and
     Richmond, Great Britain; Melbourne and Sydney,
     Australia; Nagoya, Osaka and Tokyo, Japan; Toronto,
     Canada; Paris, Bron, Toulouse, Bordeaux, Tours and
     Selestat, France; and Stuttgart, Germany.
     
     ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
     
          A former subsidiary of the Company is engaged in
     litigation in six states with respect to product
     liability.  The Company sold the subsidiary in 1987. 
     Under the terms of the sale agreement, the Company
     agreed to indemnify the buyer of the subsidiary for
     product liability related to tools manufactured by the
     subsidiary prior to June 4, 1987.  The cases involve
     approximately 3,000 plaintiffs, in state and federal
     courts in six states.  All other major U.S. air tool
     manufacturers are also defendants.  The gravamen of
     these complaints is that the defendants' air tools,
     when used in different types of manufacturing
     environments over extended periods of time, were
     defective in design and caused various physical
     injuries.  The plaintiffs seek compensatory and
     punitive damages.  The cases are in preliminary stages
     of discovery and pleading and the Company intends to
     defend its position vigorously.  The Company's maximum
     indemnification obligation under the contract is
     approximately $85,000,000.  The Company believes it has
     insurance coverage for all or a substantial part of the
     damages, if any.  The outcome of this litigation is not
     currently predictable.  
     
          In addition to the litigation noted above, the
     Company and its subsidiaries are from time to time
     subject to ordinary routine litigation incidental to
     their business.  The Company believes that the results
     of the above noted litigation and other pending legal
     proceedings would not have a materially adverse effect
     on the Company's financial condition.
                                        
     ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
     HOLDER
     
          No matters were submitted to a vote of security
     holders during the fourth quarter of 1994.     
          
     
     PART II
     
     ITEMS 5 THROUGH 8.
     
          The information required under Items 5 through 8
     is included in the Registrant's Annual Report to its
     Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1994, and
     is incorporated herein by reference.
     
     
     
     ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
     ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
     
     NONE
     
     PART III
     
     ITEMS 10 THROUGH 13.
     
          The information required under Items 10 through 13
     is included in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its
     1995 annual meeting, and is incorporated herein by
     reference.
     
     PART IV
     
     ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
     REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
     
          a)   Document List
     
          1.  Financial Statements
               Response to this portion of Item 14 is
     submitted per the Index to Financial Statement
     Schedules on page 8 of this report.
     
          2.   Supplementary Data and Financial Statement
     Schedules Response to this portion of Item 14 is
     submitted per the Index to Financial Statement
     Schedules on page 8 of this report.
     
          3.  An Index of Exhibits is on page 9 of this
     report.
     
          b)   Reports on Form 8-K filed in the fourth
     quarter of 1994.
     
     
                    NONE
  
     DANAHER CORPORATION
     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SUPPLEMENTARY DATA AND
     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
     
                                   
     
     
     
     Page Number in Annual Report
     
                                    
     
     
     Annual Report
     
                                        Form 10K  To
                                                  Share-
                                                  holders
     
     
     Report of Independent Public 
     Accountants on Schedules:               11
     
     
     
     Financial Statements:
     
     
     
     
     Consolidated Statements of 
     Earnings, year ended December 31, 
     1994, 1993, and 1992.  . . . . .                  14
     
     
     Consolidated Balance Sheets, 
     December 31, 1994 and 1993..                      15
     
     
     Consolidated Statements of 
     Cash Flows, years ended 
     December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992.                16
     
     
     Consolidated Statements of 
     Stockholders' Equity, years
     ended December 31, 1994, 
     1993, and 1992. . . . . . . .                     17
     
     
     Notes to Consolidated 
     Financial Statements. . . . . .                   18
     
     
     Supplemental Data:
     
     
     Selected Financial Data. . . . . . .              10
     
     
     Market Prices of Common Stock. . . . .            26
     
     
     Schedules:
     
     
     II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.      12
     
     
     
          Schedules other than those listed above have been
     omitted from this Annual Report because they are not
     required, are not applicable or the required
     information is included in the financial state-ments or
          the notes thereto.
     
     Exhibits
     
     
     
     
     
     (3) Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.
     
     
     
     
     (a) The Articles of Incorporation of Danaher (filed as
     Annex B to Danaher's Proxy Statement dated October 7,
     1986).
     Incorporated By Reference
     
     
     (b) The By-Laws of Danaher.
     Incorporated By Reference
     
     
     
     
     
     (10) Material Contracts:
     
     
     
     
     (a) Employment Agreement between Danaher Corporation
     and
          George M. Sherman dated as of January 2, 1990
     Incorporated By Reference
     
     
     (b) Credit Agreement Dated As of September 7, 1990.
     Among 
           Danaher Corporation, the Financial Institutions
           Listed Therein and Bankers Trust Company as
     Agent.
     Incorporated By Reference
     
     
     (c) Agreement as of November 1, 1990 between Danaher
          Corporation, Easco Hand Tools, Inc. and Sears,
     Roebuck and
          Co.
     Incorporated By Reference
     
     
     (d) Note Agreement as of November 1, 1992 Between
     Danaher
           Corporation and Lenders Referenced Therein.
     Incorporated By Reference
     
     
     (e) Note Agreement as of April 1, 1993 Between Danaher
           Corporation and Lenders Referenced Therein.
     Incorporated By Reference
     
     
            (13) Annual Report to Securityholders
     
     
     
     
     (22) Subsidiaries of Registrant.
     
     
     
     
     
     (24) Consent of Independent Public Accountants.
     
          
                         SIGNATURES
     
     
          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or
     15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
     Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
     its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
     authorized.
     
     
     
                                        DANAHER CORPORATION
     
     
     
                               By:    /s/ GEORGE M.SHERMAN   
                                     George M. Sherman
                                     President and Chief
                                        Executive Officer
     
     Date: March 20, 1995
     
     
     /s/  GEORGE M. SHERMAN             President and Chief 
          George M. Sherman             Executive Officer
     
     /s/  STEVEN M. RALES               Chairman of the 
          Steven M. Rales               Board
     
     /s/ MITCHELL P. RALES              Chairman of the 
         Mitchell P. Rales              Executive Committee
     
     /s/ WALTER G. LOHR, JR.            Director
         Walter G. Lohr, Jr.
     
     /s/ DONALD J. EHRILCH              Director
         Donald J. Ehrlich
     
     /s/ MORTIMER M. CAPLIN             Director
         Mortimer M. Caplin
     
     /s/ A. EMMET STEPHENSON, JR.       Director
         A. Emmet Stephenson, Jr.
     
     /s/PATRICK W. ALLENDER             Senior Vice
      Patrick W. Allender               President-Chief
                                        Financial Officer
                                        and Secretary
     
      /s/ C. SCOTT BRANNAN              Vice President and 
               C. Scott Brannan              Controller

          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
     
               ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
     
     
     To Danaher Corporation:
     
     We have audited in accordance with generally accepted
     auditing standards, the financial statements included
     in Danaher Corporation and Subsidiaries' Annual Report
     to Shareholders incorporated by reference in this Form
     10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated January
     25, 1995.  Our audit was made for the purpose of
     forming an opinion on those statements taken as a
     whole.  The schedules listed in the index are the
     responsibility of the Company's management and are
     presented for the purpose of complying with the
     Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not
     part of the basic financial statements.  These
     schedules have been subjected to the auditing
     procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial
     statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all
     material respects the financial data required to be set
     forth therein in relation to the financial statements
     taken as a whole.
     
     
                                        
                                        ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
     
     Washington, D.C.
          January 25, 1995

                                             EXHIBIT 24
     
     
     CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
     
                        
     As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to
     the incorporation of our reports included (or
     incorporated by reference) in this Form 10-K, into the
     Company's previously filed Registration Statement File
     No. 33-32402.
     
                                        ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
     
     
     
     
     Washington, D.C.
          March 20, 1995
DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
     SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
     (000's omitted)
     
     
      
     
     
     
     
     Additions
            
                            
     
     
     
     
     
     
     Classification
     
     
     
     Balance 
     at
     Begin-
     ning of 
     Period
     
     
     
     Charged
     to 
     Costs 
     &
     Expense
     s
     
     
     
     
     Charg
     ed
     to
     
     other
     Accou
     nts
     
     
     
     Write
      Offs 
     Write
     downs
      & 
     deduct
     ions
     
     
     
     
     Balanc
     e
      at
     End
      of
     
     Period
     
     
     Year Ended December 31,
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     Allowances deducted from
     asset accounts: 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     Allowance for doubtful
     accounts. . . . . .
     $8,043
     $6,630
     $487
     a
     $3,522
     $11,63
     
     
     
     
     
     Year Ended December 31,
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     Allowances deducted from
     asset accounts: 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     Allowance for doubtful
     accounts. . . . . .
     $6,350
     $4,188
     $ -   
     
     $2,495
     $8,043
     
     
     
     
     
     Year Ended December 31,
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     Allowances deducted from
     asset accounts: 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     Allowance for doubtful
     accounts. . . . . .
     $5,613
     $2,360
     $ -  
     $1,623
     $6,350
     
     
     
     Note (a) - Amounts related to businesses acquired.

