ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

Boston Scientific Corporation is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical
devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. Our mission is to
improve the quality of patient care and the productivity of healthcare delivery through the
development and advocacy of less-invasive medical devices and procedures. This is accomplished
through the continuing refinement of existing products and procedures and the investigation and
development of new technologies that are least- or less-invasive, reducing risk, trauma, procedure
time and the need for aftercare; cost- and comparatively-effective and, where possible, reduce or
eliminate refractory drug use. When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” and “the
Company” mean Boston Scientific Corporation and its divisions and subsidiaries.

Our history began in the late 1960s when our co-founder, John Abele, acquired an equity interest in
Medi-tech, Inc., a research and development company focused on developing alternatives to surgery.
In 1969, Medi-tech introduced a family of steerable catheters used in some of the first
less-invasive procedures performed. In 1979, John Abele joined with Pete Nicholas to form Boston
Scientific Corporation, which indirectly acquired Medi-tech. This acquisition began a period of
active and focused marketing, new product development and organizational growth. Since then, we
have advanced the practice of less-invasive medicine by helping physicians and other medical
professionals treat a variety of diseases and conditions and improve patients’ quality of life by
providing alternatives to surgery and other medical procedures that are typically traumatic to the
body.

Our net sales have increased substantially since our formation over thirty years ago. Our growth
has been fueled in part by strategic acquisitions and alliances designed to improve our ability to
take advantage of growth opportunities in the medical device industry. On April 21, 2006, we
consummated our acquisition of Guidant Corporation. With this acquisition, we became a major
provider in the worldwide cardiac rhythm management (CRM) market, enhancing our overall competitive
position and long-term growth potential and further diversifying our product portfolio. This
acquisition has established us as one of the world’s largest cardiovascular device companies and a
global leader in microelectronic therapies. This and other strategic acquisitions have helped us to
add promising new technologies to our pipeline and to offer one of the broadest product portfolios
in the world for use in less-invasive procedures. We believe that the depth and breadth of our
product portfolio has also enabled us to compete more effectively in, and better absorb the
pressures of, the current healthcare environment of cost containment, managed care, large buying
groups, government contracting and hospital consolidation and will generally assist us in
navigating through the complexities of the global healthcare market, including healthcare
reform.

Business Strategy

Our strategy is to lead global markets for less-invasive medical devices by developing and
marketing innovative products, services and therapies that address unmet patient needs, provide
superior clinical outcomes and demonstrate proven economic value. We intend to do so by building
and buying products we understand, through sales forces we already have. The following are the five
elements of our strategic plan:

•Prepareour PeopleWe believe that our success will be driven by strong leadership, robust
communication and the high caliber of our employees. We have strengthened our focus on
talent assessment and leadership development, and are committed to developing our people
and providing them with opportunities to contribute to the Company’s growth and success.
Recently, we redefined the specific leadership criteria necessary for our people to allow
us to win in our global marketplace. As a demonstration of our commitment to the
preparation of our people, we have also developed a Leadership Academy, a set of
integrated training and enrichment programs designed to support our goal of developing a
culture of leadership at all levels within the organization.





•Optimizethe Company



We plan to adapt our existing business model to allow us to operate in a more efficient manner
and allow for enhanced execution, while providing better value to hospitals, better solutions
to physicians and better outcomes to patients. In 2010, we began implementing several
restructuring initiatives designed to strengthen and position us for long-term success,
including the integration of our Cardiovascular and CRM groups into one stronger and more
competitive organization that we believe will improve our ability to deliver innovative
products and technologies, leading clinical science and exceptional service; as well as the
restructuring of certain other businesses and corporate functions. We are centralizing
corporate research and development to refocus and strengthen our innovation efforts, and are
organizing our clinical organization to take full advantage of the global resources available
to conduct more cost-effective clinical studies, accelerate the time to bring new products to
market, and gain access to worldwide technological developments that we can implement across
our product lines. In addition, we will look to transform the way we conduct research and
development, leverage low-cost geographies, and scrutinize our cost structure, which we expect
will generate significant savings over the next three years.



•WinGlobal Market Share



Through our global presence, we seek to increase net sales and market share, and leverage our
relationships with leading physicians and their clinical research programs. We plan to
re-align our International regions to be more effective in executing our business strategy and
renew our focus on selling in order to maximize our opportunities in countries whose economies
and healthcare sectors are growing rapidly. We expect to invest $30 million to $40 million by
the end of 2011 to introduce new products and strengthen our sales organization in emerging
markets such as Brazil, China and India.



•Expandour Sales and Marketing Focus



We are expanding our focus on sales, using new analytics, best practices and technologies to
improve our sales methods and tools. We are also increasing our global sales focus through
targeted sales force expansions and through delivering new global best practice capabilities
in crucial areas such as training, management, forecasting and planning, and reaching the
economic customer on a global basis. We offer products in numerous product categories, which
are used by physicians throughout the world in a broad range of diagnostic and therapeutic
procedures. The breadth and diversity of our product lines permit medical specialists and
purchasing organizations to satisfy many of their less-invasive medical device requirements
from a single source. In addition, we endeavor to expand our footprint in the hospital beyond
our current product offerings to provide us greater strategic mass.



•Realignour Business Portfolio



We are directing our
research and development and business development efforts to products
with higher returns and increasing our discipline and metrics to improve returns on our
investments. We are realigning our business portfolio through strategic acquisitions and select divestitures in order to reduce risk, optimize operational leverage and accelerate profitable,
sustainable revenue growth, while preserving our ability to meet the needs of physicians and
their patients. We expect to continue to invest in our core franchises, and also investigate
opportunities to further expand our presence in, and diversify into, priority growth areas
including atrial fibrillation, autonomic modulation therapy, coronary artery disease, deep-brain stimulation, diabetes/obesity, endoluminal surgery, endoscopic pulmonary intervention,
hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, structural heart disease, sudden cardiac arrest,
and women’s health. We have recently announced several acquisitions targeting many of the
above conditions and disease states, and, in January 2011, closed the sale of our
Neurovascular business to Stryker Corporation. The sale of our Neurovascular business provides
us with increased flexibility to fund acquisitions and repay debt.

We
believe that the execution of this strategy will drive innovation,
accelerate profitable revenue growth
and increase shareholder value.





Products

During 2010, our products were offered for sale by seven dedicated business groups—CRM;
Cardiovascular, including our Interventional Cardiology and Peripheral Interventions businesses;
Electrophysiology; Endoscopy; Urology/Women’s Health; Neuromodulation; and Neurovascular. In 2010,
we began the restructuring of our organization, which we believe will allow us to operate in a more
effective and efficient manner, and includes the integration of our CRM and Cardiovascular groups
into a newly formed Cardiology, Rhythm and Vascular group, which includes an Endovascular unit
encompassing Peripheral Interventions, Imaging and Electrophysiology.

During 2010, we derived 28 percent of our net sales from our CRM business, 42 percent from our
Cardiovascular group, two percent from our Electrophysiology business, 14 percent from our
Endoscopy business, six percent from our Urology/Women’s Health business, four percent from our
Neuromodulation business, and four percent from our Neurovascular business. The following section
describes certain of our product offerings:

Cardiac Rhythm Management

We develop, manufacture and market a variety of implantable devices that monitor the heart and
deliver electricity to treat cardiac abnormalities, including:

•Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) systems used
to detect and treat abnormally fast heart rhythms
(tachycardia) that could result in sudden cardiac death,
including implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy
defibrillator (CRT-D) systems used to treat heart failure;
and•Implantable pacemaker systems used to manage slow or
irregular heart rhythms (bradycardia), including
implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemaker
(CRT-P) systems used to treat heart failure.

A key component of many of our implantable device systems is our remote LATITUDE® Patient
Management System, which enables physicians to monitor device performance remotely while patients
are in their homes, allowing for more frequent monitoring in order to guide treatment decisions. In
2010, we launched several new CRM products, including an upgrade to our LATITUDE® system, providing
enhanced functionality, as well as our new 4-SITE lead delivery system. We have experienced
continued success with our next-generation COGNIS®CRT-D and TELIGEN® ICD systems, as well as our
ALTRUA® family of pacemaker systems and, in 2011 and 2012, we will continue to execute on our
product pipeline with the expected launch of our next-generation INGENIO™ pacemaker system, and our
next-generation line of defibrillators, INCEPTA™, ENERGEN™ and PUNCTUA™. This product line includes
new features designed to improve functionality, diagnostic capability and ease of use.

Interventional Cardiology

Coronary Stent Systems

Our broad, innovative product offerings have enabled us to become a leader in the interventional
cardiology market. This leadership is due in large part to our coronary stent product offerings.
Coronary stents are tiny, mesh tubes used in the treatment of coronary artery disease, which are
implanted in patients to prop open arteries and facilitate blood flow to and from the heart. Our
VeriFLEX™ (Liberté®) bare-metal coronary stent system is designed to enhance deliverability and
conformability, particularly in challenging lesions. We have further enhanced the outcomes
associated with the use of coronary stents, particularly the processes that lead to
restenosis1, through dedicated internal and external product development, strategic
alliances and scientific research of drug-eluting stent systems. We are the only company in the
industry to offer a two-drug platform strategy with our paclitaxel-eluting and everolimus-eluting
stent system offerings, and are the industry leader for



1The growth of neointimal tissue within an artery after angioplasty and stenting.





widest range of coronary stent sizes. In 2010, we launched our third-generation TAXUS® Element™
paclitaxel-eluting stent system in our Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) region and certain
Inter-Continental countries, and continue to sell our second-generation TAXUS® Liberté®
paclitaxel-eluting stent system in the U.S. and Japan. We also market the PROMUS®
everolimus-eluting stent system, currently supplied to us in the U.S. and Japan by Abbott
Laboratories, as well as our next-generation internally-developed and manufactured
everolimus-eluting stent system, the PROMUS® Element™ stent system, currently marketed in our EMEA
region and certain Inter-Continental countries. We expect to launch our PROMUS® Element™ stent
system in the U.S. and Japan in mid-2012, and our TAXUS® Element™ stent system in the U.S. (to be
commercialized as ION™) mid-2011 and Japan in late 2011 or early 2012.

Coronary Revascularization

We market a broad line of products used to treat patients with atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis, a
principal cause of coronary artery obstructive disease, is characterized by a thickening of the
walls of the coronary arteries and a narrowing of arterial openings caused by the progressive
development of deposits of plaque. Our product offerings include balloon catheters, rotational
atherectomy systems, guide wires, guide catheters, embolic protection devices, and diagnostic
catheters used in percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). In 2010, we launched our
Apex™ pre-dilatation balloon catheter with platinum marker bands for improved radiopacity, our NC
Quantum Apex™ post-dilatation balloon catheter, developed specifically to address physicians’ needs
in optimizing coronary stent deployment, which has been received very positively in the market, as
well as our Kinetix™ family of guidewires. We continue to hold a strong leadership position in the
PTCA balloon catheter market with an estimated 56 percent share
of the U.S. market, and 38 percent
worldwide.

Intraluminal Ultrasound Imaging

We market a family of intraluminal catheter-directed ultrasound imaging catheters and systems for
use in coronary arteries and heart chambers as well as certain peripheral vessels. The iLab®
Ultrasound Imaging System continues as our flagship console and is compatible with our full line of
imaging catheters. This system is designed to enhance the diagnosis and treatment of blocked
vessels and heart disorders.

Structural Heart Therapy

In January 2011, as part of our priority growth initiatives, we completed the acquisition of Sadra
Medical, Inc. Sadra is developing a fully repositionable and retrievable device for percutaneous
aortic valve replacement (PAVR) to treat patients with severe aortic stenosis and recently
completed a series of European feasibility studies for its Lotus™ Valve System, which consists of a
stent-mounted tissue valve prosthesis and catheter delivery system for guidance and placement of
the valve. The low-profile delivery system and introducer sheath are designed to enable accurate
positioning, repositioning and retrieval at any time prior to release of the aortic valve implant.
PAVR is one of the fastest growing medical device markets.

Electrophysiology

Within our Electrophysiology business, we develop less-invasive medical technologies used in the
diagnosis and treatment of rate and rhythm disorders of the heart. Included in our product
offerings are radio frequency generators, intracardiac ultrasound and steerable ablation catheters,
and diagnostic catheters. Our leading products include the Blazer™ line of ablation catheters,
including our next-generation Blazer™ Prime ablation catheter, designed to deliver enhanced
performance, responsiveness and durability, and the Chilli II® cooled ablation catheter. In January
2011, as part of our priority growth initiatives, we announced the signing of a definitive merger
agreement under which we will acquire Atritech, Inc., subject to customary closing conditions.
Atritech has developed a novel device designed to close the left atrial appendage in patients with
atrial fibrillation who are at risk for ischemic stroke. The WATCHMAN®Left Atrial
Appendage Closure Technology, developed by Atritech, is the first device proven in a randomized
clinical trial to offer an alternative to anticoagulant drugs, and is approved for use in CE Mark
countries.





Peripheral Interventions

We sell various products designed to treat patients with peripheral disease (disease which appears
in blood vessels other than in the heart and in the biliary tree), including a broad line of
medical devices used in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and peripheral vascular stenting. Our
peripheral product offerings include stents, balloon catheters, sheaths, wires and vena cava
filters, and we hold the number one position in the worldwide Peripheral Interventions market. We
market the PolarCath™ peripheral dilatation system used in CryoPlasty® Therapy, an innovative
approach to the treatment of peripheral artery disease in the lower extremities. In 2010, we
successfully launched several of our market-leading products internationally, including the launch
in Japan of our Carotid WALLSTENT® Monorail® Endoprosthesis for the treatment of patients with
carotid artery disease who are at high risk for surgery.

We also sell products designed to treat patients with non-vascular disease (disease which appears
outside the blood system). Our non-vascular suite of products includes biliary stents, drainage
catheters and micro-puncture sets designed to treat, diagnose and ease various forms of benign and
malignant tumors. In 2010, our Express LD Stent System received U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) approval for an iliac indication, and we continued to market our Express® SD Renal Monorail®
premounted stent system for use as an adjunct therapy to percutaneous transluminal renal
angioplasty in certain lesions of the renal arteries; as well as our Sterling® Monorail® and
Over-the-Wire balloon dilatation catheter for use in the renal and lower extremity arteries, and
our extensive line of Interventional Oncology product solutions.

Embolic Protection

Our FilterWire EZ™ Embolic Protection System is a low profile filter designed to capture embolic
material that may become dislodged during a procedure, which could otherwise travel into the
microvasculature where it could cause a heart attack or stroke. It is commercially available in the
U.S., our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries for multiple indications, including
the treatment of disease in peripheral, coronary and carotid vessels. It is also available in the
U.S. for the treatment of saphenous vein grafts and carotid artery stenting procedures.

Endoscopy

Gastroenterology

Interventional Bronchoscopy

We market devices to diagnose, treat and ease pulmonary disease systems within the airway and
lungs. Our products are designed to help perform biopsies, retrieve foreign bodies from the airway,
open narrowings of an





airway, stop internal bleeding, and ease symptoms of some types of airway cancers. Our product line
includes pulmonary biopsy forceps, transbronchial aspiration needles, cytology brushes and
tracheobronchial stents used to dilate narrowed airway passages or for tumor management. In
addition, as part of our priority growth initiatives, in October 2010, we completed our acquisition
of Asthmatx, Inc. Asthmatx designs, manufactures and markets a less-invasive, catheter-based
bronchial thermoplasty procedure for the treatment of severe persistent asthma. The
Alair®Bronchial Thermoplasty System, developed by Asthmatx, has both CE Mark and FDA
approval and is the first device-based asthma treatment approved by the FDA.

Urology/Women’s Health

Our Urology/Women’s Health division develops and manufactures devices to treat various urological
and gynecological disorders. We sell a variety of products designed to treat patients with urinary
stone disease, stress urinary incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse and excessive uterine bleeding.
We offer a full line of stone management products, including ureteral stents, wires, lithotripsy
devices, stone retrieval devices, sheaths, balloons and catheters.

We continue to expand our focus on Women’s Health. We market a range of devices for the treatment
of conditions such as female urinary incontinence, pelvic floor reconstruction (rebuilding of the
anatomy to its original state), and menorrhagia (excessive menstrual bleeding). We offer a full
breadth of mid-urethral sling products, sling materials, graft materials, pelvic floor
reconstruction kits, and suturing devices. We recently launched our Genesys Hydro ThermAblator®
(HTA) system, a next-generation endometrial ablation system designed to ablate the endometrial
lining of the uterus in premenopausal women with menorrhagia. The Genesys HTA System features a
smaller and lighter console, simplified set-up requirements, and an enhanced graphic user interface
and is designed to improve operating performance.

Neuromodulation

Neurovascular

In January 2011, we closed the sale of our Neurovascular business to Stryker Corporation. This
business markets a broad line of coated and uncoated detachable coils, micro-delivery stents,
micro-guidewires, micro-catheters, guiding catheters and embolics to neuro-interventional
radiologists and neurosurgeons to treat diseases of the neurovascular system. In 2010, we marketed
the GDC® Coils (Guglielmi Detachable Coil) and Matrix® systems to treat brain aneurysms and, in
late 2010, we received FDA approval for the next-generation family of detachable coils, which
includes an enhanced delivery system designed to reduce coil detachment times, and began a phased





launch of the product. We also offered the NeuroForm® stent system, and launched the Neuroform EZ™
stent system, a fourth-generation intracranial aneurysm stent system designed for use in
conjunction with endovascular coiling to treat wide-necked aneurysm, and the Wingspan® Stent System
with Gateway® PTA Balloon Catheter, each under a Humanitarian Device Exemption approval granted by
the FDA. The Wingspan Stent System is designed to treat atherosclerotic lesions or accumulated
plaque in brain arteries. Designed for the brain’s fragile vessels, the Wingspan Stent System is a
self-expanding, nitinol stent sheathed in a delivery system that enables it to reach and open
narrowed arteries in the brain. The Wingspan Stent System is currently the only device available in
the U.S. for the treatment of intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD) and is indicated for
improving cerebral artery lumen diameter in patients with ICAD who are unresponsive to medical
therapy.

Innovation

Research and Development

Our investment in research and development is critical to driving our future growth. We expended
$939 million on research and development in 2010, $1.035 billion in 2009 and $1.006 billion in
2008, representing approximately 12 to 13 percent of our net sales each year. Our investment in
research and development reflects:

•regulatory compliance, clinical science, and internal research and
development programs, as well as others obtained through our strategic
acquisitions and alliances; and•sustaining engineering efforts which incorporate customer feedback
into continuous improvement efforts for currently marketed and next-generation products.

We have directed our development efforts toward regulatory compliance and innovative technologies
designed to expand current markets or enter new markets. We are looking to transform the way we
conduct research and development, leverage low-cost geographies, and scrutinize our cost structure,
which we expect will generate significant savings over the next three years. Our approach to new
product design and development is through focused, cross-functional teams. We believe that our
formal process for technology and product development aids in our ability to offer innovative and
manufacturable products in a consistent and timely manner. Involvement of the research and
development, clinical, quality, regulatory, manufacturing and marketing teams early in the process
is the cornerstone of our product development cycle. This collaboration allows these teams to
concentrate resources on the most viable and clinically relevant new products and technologies, and
focus on bringing them to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition to internal
development, we work with hundreds of leading research institutions, universities and clinicians
around the world to develop, evaluate and clinically test our products. We believe our future
success will depend upon the strength of these development efforts.





Marketing and Sales

International Operations

International net sales accounted for 44 percent of our net sales in 2010. Net sales and operating
income attributable to our 2010 geographic regions are presented inNote P–Segment Reportingto
our 2010 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Our
international structure operates through three international business units: EMEA, consisting of
Europe, the Middle East and Africa; Japan; and Inter-Continental, consisting of our Asia Pacific
and the Americas reporting units. Maintaining and expanding our international presence is an
important component of our long-term growth plan. Through our international presence, we seek to
increase net sales and market share, leverage our relationships with leading physicians and their
clinical research programs, accelerate the time to bring new products to market, and gain access to
worldwide technological developments that we can implement across our product lines. We plan to
invest $30 million to $40 million through the end of 2011 to introduce new products and strengthen
our sales capabilities in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and India. A discussion of the
risks associated with our international operations is included in Item 1A of this Annual Report.

As of December 31, 2010, we had six international manufacturing facilities, including three in
Ireland, two in Costa Rica and one in Puerto Rico. Approximately 55 percent of our products sold
worldwide during 2010 were manufactured at these facilities. Additionally, we maintain
international research and development capabilities in Ireland, as well as physician training
centers in France and Japan.

Manufacturing and Raw Materials

We are focused on continuously improving our supply chain effectiveness, strengthening our
manufacturing processes and increasing operational efficiencies within our organization. By
shifting global manufacturing along product lines, we are able to leverage our existing resources
and concentrate on new product development, including the enhancement of existing products, and
their commercial launch. We are implementing new systems designed to provide improved quality and
reliability, service, greater efficiency and lower supply chain costs, and have substantially
increased our focus on process controls and validations, supplier controls, distribution controls
and providing our operations teams with the training and tools necessary to drive continuous
improvement in product quality. In addition, we continue to focus on examining our operations and
general business activities to identify cost-improvement opportunities in order to enhance our
operational effectiveness, including our Plant Network Optimization program and our recently
completed 2007 Restructuring plan, discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report.





Our
products are designed and manufactured  in technology centers around the world,
either by us or third parties. In
most cases, the manufacturing of our products is concentrated
in one or a few locations.
We consistently monitor our inventory levels, manufacturing and
distribution capabilities, and maintain recovery plans to address
potential disruptions that we may encounter; however,  any significant interruption in our ability to manufacture these products over an extended duration may result in delays in our ability
to resume production of affected products, due to needs for regulatory approvals. As a result, we
may suffer loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation,
which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Quality Assurance

In January 2006, we received a corporate warning letter from the FDA notifying us of serious
regulatory problems at three of our facilities and advising us that our corporate-wide corrective
action plan relating to three site-specific warning letters issued to us in 2005 was inadequate. We
identified solutions to the quality system issues cited by the FDA and implemented those solutions
throughout our organization. During 2008, the FDA reinspected a number of our facilities and, in
October 2008, informed us that our quality system was in substantial compliance with its Quality
System Regulations. In November 2009 and January 2010, the FDA reinspected two of our sites to
follow up on observations from the 2008 FDA inspections. Both of these FDA inspections confirmed
that all issues at the sites have been resolved and all restrictions related to the corporate
warning letter were removed. On August 11, 2010, we were notified by the FDA that the corporate
warning letter had been lifted.

We are committed to providing high quality products to our customers. To meet this commitment, we
have implemented updated quality systems and concepts throughout our organization. Our quality
system starts with the initial product specification and continues through the design of the
product, component specification process and the manufacturing, sale and servicing of the product.
Our quality system is intended to build in quality and process control and to utilize continuous
improvement concepts throughout the product life. These systems are designed to enable us to
satisfy the various international quality system regulations, including those of the FDA





with respect to products sold in the U.S. All of our manufacturing facilities, including our U.S.
and European distribution centers, are certified under the ISO13485:2003 quality system standard,
established by the International Standards Organization, for medical devices, which requires, among
other items, an implemented quality system that applies to component quality, supplier control,
product design and manufacturing operations. This certification can be obtained only after a
complete audit of a company’s quality system by an independent outside auditor. Maintenance of the
certification requires that these facilities undergo periodic re-examination.

In addition, we maintain an on-going initiative to seek ISO14001 certification at our plants around
the world. ISO14001 is a globally recognized standard for Environmental Management Systems,
established by the International Standards Organization, which provides a voluntary framework to
identify key environmental aspects associated with our business. We engage in continuous
environmental performance improvement efforts, and at present, ten of our 14 manufacturing and
distribution facilities have attained ISO14001 certification. We are committed to achieving
ISO14001 certification at all of our manufacturing facilities and Tier I distribution centers
worldwide.

Competition

We encounter significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which we sell
our products from various companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing
resources than we do. Our primary competitors include Johnson & Johnson (including its subsidiary,
Cordis Corporation); Medtronic, Inc.; Abbott Laboratories; and St. Jude Medical, Inc.; as well as a
wide range of medical device companies that sell a single or limited number of competitive products
or participate in only a specific market segment. We also face competition from non-medical device
companies, such as pharmaceutical companies, which may offer alternative therapies for disease
states intended to be treated using our products.

We believe that our products compete primarily on their ability to safely and effectively perform
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in a less-invasive manner, including clinical outcomes, ease
of use, comparative effectiveness, reliability and physician familiarity. In the current
environment of managed care, economically-motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare
providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly
required to compete on the basis of price, value, reliability and efficiency. We believe the
current global economic conditions and healthcare reform measures could put additional competitive
pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure rates and market sizes.
We recognize that our continued competitive success will depend upon our ability to offer products
with differentiated clinical outcomes; create or acquire innovative, scientifically advanced
technology; apply our technology cost-effectively and with superior quality across product lines
and markets; develop or acquire proprietary products; attract and retain skilled personnel; obtain
patent or other protection for our products; obtain required regulatory and reimbursement
approvals; continually enhance our quality systems; manufacture and successfully market our
products either directly or through outside parties; and supply sufficient inventory to meet
customer demand.

Regulatory Environment

The medical devices that we manufacture and market are subject to regulation by numerous regulatory
bodies, including the FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies. These agencies require
manufacturers of medical devices to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the
development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of medical devices.
Devices are generally subject to varying levels of regulatory control, the most comprehensive of
which requires that a clinical evaluation be conducted before a device receives approval for
commercial distribution.

In the U.S., approval to distribute a new device generally can be met in one of three ways. The
first process requires that a pre-market notification (510(k) Submission) be made to the FDA to
demonstrate that the device is as safe and effective as, or substantially equivalent to, a legally
marketed device that is not subject to pre-market approval (PMA), i.e., the “predicate” device. An
appropriate predicate device for a pre-market notification is one that (i) was legally marketed
prior to May 28, 1976, (ii) was approved under a PMA but then subsequently reclassified from Class
III to Class II or I, or (iii) has been found to be substantially equivalent and cleared for





The second process requires the submission of an application for PMA to the FDA to demonstrate that
the device is safe and effective for its intended use as manufactured. This approval process
applies to certain Class III devices. In this case, two steps of FDA approval are generally
required before marketing in the U.S. can begin. First, we must comply with the applicable IDE
regulations in connection with any human clinical investigation of the device in the U.S. Second,
the FDA must review our PMA application, which contains, among other things, clinical information
acquired under the IDE. The FDA will approve the PMA application if it finds that there is a
reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended purpose.

The third process requires that an application for a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) be made to
the FDA for the use of a Humanitarian Use Device (HUD). A HUD is intended to benefit patients by
treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects, or is manifested in, fewer than 4,000
individuals in the U.S. per year. The application submitted to the FDA for an HDE is similar in
both form and content to a PMA application, but is exempt from the effectiveness requirements of a
PMA. This approval process demonstrates that there is no comparable device available to treat or
diagnose the condition, the device will not expose patients to unreasonable or significant risk,
and the benefits to health from use outweigh the risks. The HUD provision of the regulation
provides an incentive for the development of devices for use in the treatment or diagnosis of
diseases affecting smaller patient populations.

In the European Union, we are required to comply with applicable medical device directives
(including the Medical Devices Directive and the Active Implantable Medical Devices Directive) and
obtain CE Mark certification in order to market medical devices. The CE Mark certification, granted
following approval from an independent notified body, is an international symbol of adherence to
quality assurance standards and





compliance with applicable European Medical Devices Directives. We are also required to comply with
other foreign regulations such as the requirement that we obtain approval from the Japanese
Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) before we can launch new products in Japan. The time
required to obtain these foreign approvals to market our products may vary from U.S. approvals, and
requirements for these approvals may differ from those required by the FDA.

We are also subject to various environmental laws, directives and regulations both in the U.S. and
abroad. Our operations, like those of other medical device companies, involve the use of substances
regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We do
not believe that compliance with environmental laws will have a material impact on our capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position. However, given the scope and nature of these laws,
there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not have a material impact on our results of
operations. We assess potential environmental contingent liabilities on a regular basis. At
present, we are not aware of any such liabilities that would have a material impact on our
business.

We believe that sound environmental, health and safety performance contributes to our competitive
strength while benefiting our customers, shareholders and employees. We are committed to continuous
improvement in these areas by reducing pollution, the depletion of natural resources, and our
overall environmental footprint. Specifically, we are working to optimize energy and resource
usage, ultimately reducing greenhouse gas emissions and waste. We are certified to the FTSE4Good
Corporate Social Responsibility Index, managed by The Financial Times and the London Stock
Exchange, which measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognized standards of
corporate responsibility. This certification recognizes our dedication to those standards, and it
places us in a select group of companies with a demonstrated commitment to responsible business
practices and sound environmental policies.

Government Affairs

We maintain a global Government Affairs presence, headquartered in Washington D.C., to actively
monitor and influence a myriad of legislative and administrative policies impacting us, both on a
domestic and an international front. The Government Affairs office works closely with members of
Congress, key Congressional committee staff and White House and Administration staff, which
facilitates our active engagement on issues affecting our business. Our proactive approach and
depth of political and policy expertise are aimed at having our positions heard by federal, state
and global decision-makers, while also advancing our business objectives by educating policymakers
on our positions, key priorities and the value of our technologies. The Government Affairs office
also manages our political action committee and works closely with trade groups on issues affecting
our industry and healthcare in general.

Healthcare Reform and Current Economic Climate

Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to potential
fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and
private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation,
competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies,
technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do
business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on
the delivery of more cost-effective treatments. Although we believe our less-invasive products and
technologies generate favorable clinical outcomes, value and cost efficiency, the resources
necessary to demonstrate comparative effectiveness may be significant. In addition, uncertainty
remains regarding proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system.

Further, certain state governments have recently enacted, and the federal government has proposed,
legislation aimed at increasing transparency in relationships between industry and healthcare
professionals (HCPs). As a result, we are required by law to report many types of direct and
indirect payments and other transfers of value to HCPs licensed by certain states and expect that
we will have to make similar reports at the federal level in the near future. We have devoted
substantial time and financial resources in order to develop and implement enhanced structure,
policies, systems and processes in order to comply with these legal and regulatory





requirements. These systems are designed to provide enhanced visibility and consistency across our
businesses with respect to our interactions with healthcare professionals. Implementation of these
policies, systems and processes, or failure to comply with these policies could have a negative
impact on our results of operations.

Additionally, our results of operations could be substantially affected by global economic factors
and local operating and economic conditions. Our customers may experience financial difficulties or
be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability or
decision to purchase our products, particularly capital equipment, or to pay for our products they
do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot predict to what extent global economic
conditions and the increased focus on healthcare systems and costs in the U.S. and abroad may
negatively impact our average selling prices, our net sales and profit margins, procedural volumes
and reimbursement rates from third-party payors.

Third-Party Coverage and Reimbursement

Our products are purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers
around the world that typically bill various third-party payors, including governmental programs
(e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care programs, for the
healthcare services provided to their patients. Third-party payors may provide or deny coverage for
certain technologies and associated procedures based on independently determined assessment
criteria. Reimbursement by third-party payors for these services is based on a wide range of
methodologies that may reflect the services’ assessed resource costs, clinical outcomes and
economic value. These reimbursement methodologies confer different, and sometimes conflicting,
levels of financial risk and incentives to healthcare providers and patients, and these
methodologies are subject to frequent refinements. Third-party payors are also increasingly
adjusting reimbursement rates, often downwards, and challenging the prices charged for medical
products and services. There can be no assurance that our products will be covered automatically by
third-party payors, that reimbursement will be available or, if available, that the third-party
payors’ coverage policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably.

Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, are also underway
in many countries in which we do business. Implementation of cost containment initiatives and
healthcare reforms in significant markets such as the U.S., Japan, Europe and other international
markets may limit the price of, or the level at which reimbursement is provided for, our products
and may influence a physician’s selection of products used to treat patients.

Proprietary Rights and Patent Litigation

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements to
protect our intellectual property. We generally file patent applications in the U.S. and foreign
countries where patent protection for our technology is appropriate and available. As of December
31, 2010, we held more than 15,000 patents, and had approximately 9,000 patent applications pending
worldwide that cover various aspects of our technology. In addition, we hold exclusive and
non-exclusive licenses to a variety of third-party technologies covered by patents and patent
applications. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications will result in the
issuance of patents, that patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged or
circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad
to protect our technology or to provide us with a competitive advantage. In the aggregate, these
intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business; however, we
believe that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license,
except for those relating to our drug-eluting coronary stent systems, is material in relation to
our business as a whole.

We rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with employees, consultants and other
parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. There can be no
assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any
breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that third
parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge.





There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in
the medical device industry, particularly in the areas in which we compete. We continue to defend
ourselves against claims and legal actions alleging infringement of the patent rights of others.
Adverse determinations in any patent litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to
third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, and, if licenses are not available,
prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our products, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we may find it necessary to initiate
litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how and to determine
the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Patent litigation can be costly and
time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that our litigation expenses will not be significant
in the future or that the outcome of litigation will be favorable to us. Accordingly, we may seek
to settle some or all of our pending litigation, particularly to manage risk over time. Settlement
may include cross licensing of the patents that are the subject of the litigation as well as our
other intellectual property and may involve monetary payments to or from third parties.

See
Item 3 andNote L – Commitments and Contingenciesto our 2010 consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of intellectual property and
other litigation and proceedings in which we are involved. In management’s opinion, we are not
currently involved in any legal proceeding other than those specifically identified inNote L,which, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or liquidity.

Risk Management

The testing, marketing and sale of human healthcare products entails an inherent risk of product
liability claims. In the normal course of business, product liability and securities claims are
asserted against us. Product liability and securities claims may be asserted against us in the
future related to events unknown at the present time. We are substantially self-insured with
respect to product liability and intellectual property infringement claims. We maintain insurance
policies providing limited coverage against securities claims. The absence of significant
third-party insurance coverage increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims or adverse
decisions. Product liability claims, securities and commercial litigation and other litigation in
the future, regardless of outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe
that our risk management practices, including limited insurance coverage, are reasonably adequate
to protect against anticipated product liability and securities litigation losses. However,
unanticipated catastrophic losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial position,
results of operations and liquidity.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 25,000 employees, including approximately 13,000 in
operations; 6,000 in selling, marketing and distribution; 4,000 in clinical, regulatory and
research and development; and 2,000 in administration. Of these employees, we employed
approximately 10,000 outside the U.S., approximately 7,000 of whom are in the operations function.
We believe that the continued success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to
attract and retain qualified personnel, and we are committed to developing our people and providing
them with opportunities to contribute to our growth and success.

Community Outreach

In line with our corporate mission to improve the quality of patient care and the productivity of
healthcare delivery, we are committed to making more possible in the communities where we live and
work. We bring this commitment to life by supporting global, national and local health and
education initiatives, striving to improve patient advocacy, adhering to strong ethical standards
that deliver on our commitments, and minimizing our impact on the environment. A prominent example
of our ongoing commitment to patients is our Close the Gap program, which addresses disparities in
cardiovascular care for the underserved patient populations of women, black Americans, and Latino
Americans. Close the Gap increases awareness of cardiovascular risk factors, teaches healthcare
providers about cultural beliefs and barriers to treatment, and advocates for measures that help
ensure all patients receive the cardiovascular care they need.





Through the Boston Scientific Foundation, we fund non-profit organizations in our local communities
and medical education fellowships at institutions throughout the U.S. Our community
grants support programs aimed at improving the lives of those with unmet needs by engaging in
partnerships that promote long-term, systemic change. The Foundation is committed to funding
organizations focused on increasing access to quality healthcare and improving educational
opportunities, particularly with regards to science, technology, engineering and math. We have
committed to contributing $15 million to our Close the Gap program and Science, Technology,
Engineering and Math (STEM) education over the next three years.

Seasonality

Our worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, customer
purchases have historically been lighter in the third quarter of the year, as compared to other
quarters. This reflects, among other factors, lower demand during summer months, particularly in
European countries.

Available Information

Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form
8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our website
(www.bostonscientific.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the
material with or furnish it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). Printed copies of these posted materials are also available
free of charge to shareholders who request them in writing from Investor Relations, One Boston
Scientific Place, Natick, MA 01760-1537. Information on our website or connected to our website is
not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.

Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements





Except as required by law, we do not intend to update any forward-looking statements even if new
information becomes available or other events occur in the future. We have identified these
forward-looking statements, which are based on certain risks and uncertainties, including the risk
factors described in Item 1A of this Annual Report. Factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements are contained below and
described further in Item 1A.

CRM Business

•Our ability to minimize loss of and recapture market share following
the ship hold and product removal of our ICD and CRT-D systems in the
U.S.;



•Our ability to retain and attract key members of our CRM sales force
and other key CRM personnel, particularly following the ship hold and
product removal of our ICD and CRT-D systems in the U.S.;



•Our estimates for the U.S. and worldwide CRM markets, as well as our
ability to increase CRM net sales and recapture market share;



•The overall performance of, and referring physician, implanting
physician and patient confidence in, our and our competitors’ CRM
products and technologies, including our COGNIS®CRT-D and TELIGEN®ICD systems and our
LATITUDE®Patient Management System;



•The results of CRM clinical trials and market studies undertaken by
us, our competitors or other third parties;



•Our ability to successfully launch next-generation products and
technology features worldwide, including our INGENIO™ pacemaker system
and our next-generation INCEPTA™, ENERGEN™ and PUNCTUA™ defibrillators
in additional geographies;



•Our ability to grow sales of both new and replacement implant units;



•Competitive offerings in the CRM market and related declines in
average selling prices, as well as the timing of receipt of regulatory
approvals to market existing and anticipated CRM products and
technologies; and



•Our ability to avoid disruption in the supply of certain components,
materials or products; or to quickly secure additional or replacement
components, materials or products on a timely basis.

Coronary Stent Business

•Volatility in the coronary stent market, our estimates for the worldwide coronary stent market, our
ability to increase coronary stent system net sales, competitive offerings and the timing of receipt of
regulatory approvals, both in the U.S. and internationally, to market existing and anticipated
drug-eluting stent technology and other stent platforms;•Our ability to successfully launch next-generation products and technology features, including our
PROMUS®Element™ and TAXUS®Element™ stent systems in
additional geographies;•The results of coronary stent clinical trials undertaken by us, our competitors or other third parties;•Our ability to maintain or expand our worldwide market positions through reinvestment in our two
drug-eluting stent programs;•Our ability to manage the mix of net sales of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott
relative to our total drug-eluting stent system net sales and to launch on-schedule in the U.S. and
Japan our PROMUS® Element™ next-generation internally-developed and manufactured everolimus-eluting
stent system with gross profit margins more comparable to our TAXUS®stent
systems;





•Our share of the U.S. and worldwide drug-eluting stent markets, the average number of stents used per
procedure, average selling prices, and the penetration rate of drug-eluting stent technology in the
U.S. and international markets;•The overall performance of, and continued physician confidence in, our and other drug-eluting stent
systems;•Our reliance on Abbott’s manufacturing capabilities and supply chain in the U.S. and Japan, and our
ability to align our everolimus-eluting stent system supply from Abbott with customer demand in these
regions;•Enhanced requirements to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and around the world and the associated
impact on new product launch schedules and the cost of product approval and compliance; and•Our ability to retain and attract key members of our cardiology sales force and other key personnel.

Other Businesses

•The overall performance of, and continued physician confidence in, our products and technologies;•Our ability to successfully launch next-generation products and technology features in a timely manner;•The results of clinical trials undertaken by us, our competitors or other third parties; and•Our ability to maintain or expand our worldwide market positions through investments in next-generation
technologies.

Litigation and Regulatory Compliance

•Risks generally associated with our regulatory compliance and quality systems in the U.S. and
around the world;•Our ability to minimize or avoid future field actions or FDA warning letters relating to our
products and the on-going inherent risk of potential physician advisories or field actions related
to medical devices;•Heightened global regulatory enforcement arising from political and regulatory changes as well as
economic pressures;•The effect of our litigation and risk management practices, including self-insurance, and
compliance activities on our loss contingencies, legal provision and cash flows;•The impact of, diversion of management attention, and costs to resolve, our stockholder derivative
and class action, patent, product liability, contract and other litigation, governmental
investigations and legal proceedings;•Costs associated with our on-going compliance and quality activities and sustaining organizations;•The impact of increased pressure on the availability and rate of third-party reimbursement for our
products and procedures worldwide; and•Legislative or regulatory efforts to modify the product approval or reimbursement process,
including a trend toward demonstrating clinical outcomes, comparative effectiveness and cost
efficiency.





Innovation

•Our ability to complete planned clinical trials successfully, to obtain regulatory approvals and to
develop and launch products on a timely basis within cost estimates, including the successful completion
of in-process projects from purchased research and development;



•Our ability to manage research and development and other operating expenses consistent with our expected
net sales growth;



•Our ability to develop and launch next-generation products and technologies successfully across all of
our businesses;



•Our ability to fund with cash or common stock any acquisitions or alliances, or to fund contingent
payments associated with these acquisitions or alliances;



•Our ability to achieve benefits from our focus on internal research and development and external
alliances and acquisitions as well as our ability to capitalize on opportunities across our businesses;



•Our failure to succeed at, or our decision to discontinue, any of our growth initiatives, as well as
competitive interest in the same or similar technologies;



•Our ability to integrate the strategic acquisitions we have consummated or may consummate in the future;



•Our ability to prioritize our internal research and development project portfolio and our external
investment portfolio to identify profitable  revenue growth opportunities and keep expenses in line with expected
revenue levels, or our decision to sell, discontinue, write down or reduce the funding of any of these
projects;



•The timing, size and nature of strategic initiatives, market opportunities and research and development
platforms available to us and the ultimate cost and success of these initiatives; and



•Our ability to successfully identify, develop and market new products or the ability of others to
develop products or technologies that render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.

International Markets

•Our dependency on international net sales to achieve growth;•Changes in our international structure and leadership;•Risks associated with international operations, including compliance
with local legal and regulatory requirements as well as changes in
reimbursement practices and policies;•Our ability to maintain or expand our worldwide market positions
through investments in emerging markets;•The potential effect of foreign currency fluctuations and interest
rate fluctuations on our net sales, expenses and resulting margins;
and•Uncertainties related to economic conditions.

Liquidity

•Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund operations,
capital expenditures, litigation settlements





and strategic investments and acquisitions, as well as to effectively manage our debt levels and
covenant compliance;

•Our ability to access the public and private capital markets when
desired and to issue debt or equity securities on terms reasonably
acceptable to us;•Our ability to resolve open tax matters favorably and realize
substantially all of our deferred tax assets and the impact of changes
in tax laws; and•The impact of examinations and assessments by domestic and
international taxing authorities on our tax provision, financial
condition or results of operations.

Strategic Initiatives

•Our ability to implement, fund, and achieve timely and sustainable cost improvement measures consistent
with our expectations, including our 2010 Restructuring plan and Plant Network Optimization program;•Our ability to maintain or expand our worldwide market positions in the various markets in which we compete
or seek to compete, as we diversify our product portfolio and focus on emerging markets;•Risks associated with significant changes made or to be made to our organizational structure pursuant to
our 2010 Restructuring plan and Plant Network Optimization program, or to the membership and
responsibilities of our executive committee or Board of Directors;•Our ability to direct our
research and development efforts to conduct more cost-effective clinical studies,
accelerate the time to bring new products to market, and develop products with higher returns;•The successful separation of divested businesses, including the performance of related transition services;•Our ability to retain and attract key employees and avoid business disruption and employee distraction as
we execute our global compliance program, restructuring plans and divestitures of assets or businesses; and•Our ability to maintain management focus on core business activities while also concentrating on
implementing strategic and restructuring initiatives.

Several important factors, in addition to the specific risk factors discussed in connection with
forward-looking statements individually and the risk factors described in Item 1A under the heading
“Risk Factors,” could affect our future results and growth rates and could cause those results and
rates to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements and the risk
factors contained in this report. These additional factors include, among other things, future
economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions;
demographic trends; intellectual property, litigation and government investigations; financial
market conditions; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors, all of which are
difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. Therefore,
we wish to caution each reader of this report to consider carefully these factors as well as the
specific factors discussed with each forward-looking statement and risk factor in this report and
as disclosed in our filings with the SEC. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the
future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy
and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements
expressed in this Annual Report.



