ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

Boston Scientific Corporation is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical
devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties including
 cardiac rhythm management,  electrophysiology, interventional cardiology, peripheral interventions,
neurovascular, endoscopy, urology, women’s health and neuromodulation. Our mission is to improve
the quality of patient care and the productivity of health care delivery through the development
and advocacy of less-invasive medical devices and procedures. This is accomplished through the
continuing refinement of existing products and procedures and the investigation and development of
new technologies that can reduce risk, trauma, cost, procedure time and the need for aftercare.
When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” and “the Company” mean Boston Scientific
Corporation and its divisions and subsidiaries.

Our history began in the late 1960s when our co-founder, John Abele, acquired an equity interest in
Medi-tech, Inc., a research and development company focused on developing alternatives to surgery.
In 1969, Medi-tech introduced a family of steerable catheters used in some of the first
less-invasive procedures performed. In 1979, John Abele joined with Pete Nicholas to form Boston
Scientific Corporation, which indirectly acquired Medi-tech. This acquisition began a period of
active and focused marketing, new product development and organizational growth. Since then, we
have advanced the practice of less-invasive medicine by helping physicians and other medical
professionals treat a variety of diseases and improve patients’ quality of life by providing
alternatives to surgery and other medical procedures that are typically traumatic to the body. Some
of the uses of our products include: enlarging narrowed blood vessels to prevent heart attack and
stroke; clearing passages blocked by plaque to restore blood flow; detecting and managing fast,
slow or irregular heart rhythms; mapping electrical problems in the heart; performing biopsies and
intravascular ultrasounds; placing filters to prevent blood clots from reaching the lungs, heart or
brain; treating urological, gynecological, renal, pulmonary, neurovascular and gastrointestinal
diseases; and modulating nerve activity to treat chronic pain.

Our net sales have increased substantially over the last thirty years, growing from $2 million in
1979 to approximately $8.2 billion in 2009. Our growth has been fueled in part by strategic
acquisitions and alliances designed to improve our ability to take advantage of growth
opportunities in the medical device industry. On April 21, 2006, we consummated our acquisition of
Guidant Corporation. With this acquisition, we became a major provider in the worldwide cardiac
rhythm management (CRM) market, enhancing our overall competitive position and long-term growth
potential and further diversifying our product portfolio. This acquisition has established us as
one of the world’s largest cardiovascular device companies and a global leader in microelectronic
therapies. This and other strategic acquisitions have helped us to add promising new technologies
to our pipeline and to offer one of the broadest product portfolios in the world for use in
less-invasive procedures. We believe that the depth and breadth of our product portfolio has also
enabled us to compete more effectively in, and better absorb the pressures of, the current
healthcare environment of cost containment, managed care, large buying groups, government
contracting and hospital consolidation and will generally assist us in navigating the current
turmoil in the global economic markets and potential U.S. healthcare reform measures.

Business Strategy

Our business strategy is to lead global markets for less-invasive medical devices by developing and
marketing innovative products, services and therapies that address
unmet patient needs, provide  superior clinical outcomes and
demonstrate proven economic value. The components of our
business strategy are as follows:





•Strengthen Leadership and CommunicationWe believe that our success will be driven by strong leadership, robust communication and
the high caliber of our employees. Our leadership team is measured against the following
competencies: vision, integrity, accountability, passion, perseverance, communication,
resourcefulness, team building, intellect and customer driven focus. We intend to
strengthen our focus on leadership development and instill these leadership characteristics
within our corporate culture.



•Restructure the Business ModelWe will implement a restructured business model that will allow us to operate in a more
efficient manner and allow for enhanced execution, while providing better value to
hospitals, better solutions to physicians and better outcomes to patients. In 2010, we began
implementing several restructuring initiatives designed to strengthen and position us for
long-term success, including the integration of our Cardiovascular and CRM groups into one
stronger and more competitive organization that will improve our ability to deliver
innovative products and technologies, leading clinical science and
exceptional service; as
well as the restructuring of certain other businesses and corporate functions.



•Create Higher-Payoff New ProductsWe will centralize corporate research and development to refocus and strengthen our
innovation efforts; and we will organize our clinical organization to take full advantage of
the global resources available to conduct more cost effective clinical studies, accelerate
the time to bring new products to market, and gain access to worldwide technological
developments that we can implement across our product lines. We will direct our research and
development and business development efforts to higher payoff product investments and
increase our discipline and metrics to improve returns on our investments. We will continue
to invest in our core franchises, and are also investigating opportunities to further expand
our presence in, and diversify into, areas including atrial fibrillation, underserved
defibrillator populations, acute ischemic stroke, coronary artery disease, peripheral
vascular disease, structural heart disease, vascular closure, hypertension, women’s health,
endoluminal surgery, diabetes/obesity, endoscopic pulmonary intervention and deep brain
stimulation.



•Increase Global Sales FocusWe will increase our global sales focus through targeted sales force expansions and through
delivering new global best practice capabilities in crucial areas such as training,
management, forecasting and planning, and reaching the economic customer on a global basis.
Through our global presence, we seek to increase net sales and market share, and leverage
our relationships with leading physicians and their clinical research programs. We plan to
align our International regions to be more effective in executing our business strategy and
renew our focus on selling, including significant investments into emerging markets, in
order to maximize our opportunities in countries whose economies and health care sectors are
growing rapidly.



•Refocus Business Portfolio and Expand FootprintWe offer products in numerous product categories, which are used by physicians throughout
the world in a broad range of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. The breadth and
diversity of our product lines permit medical specialists and purchasing organizations to
satisfy many of their less-invasive medical device requirements from a single source. We
plan to focus our business portfolio through the investigation of select divestitures and
targeted acquisitions in order to reduce risk, optimize operational leverage and accelerate
profitable, sustainable growth, while preserving our ability to meet the needs of physicians
and their patients. In addition, we





endeavor to expand our footprint in the hospital beyond our current product offerings to
provide us greater strategic mass.

We believe that the execution of this strategy will drive innovation, accelerate profitable growth
and increase shareholder value.

Research and Development

Our investment in research and development is critical to driving our future growth. We have
directed our development efforts toward regulatory compliance and innovative technologies designed
to expand current markets or enter new markets. We believe that streamlining, prioritizing and
coordinating our technology pipeline and new product development activities are essential to our
ability to stimulate growth and maintain leadership positions in our markets. Our approach to new
product design and development is through focused, cross-functional teams. We believe that our
formal process for technology and product development aids in our ability to offer innovative and
manufacturable products in a consistent and timely manner. Involvement of the research and
development, clinical, quality, regulatory, manufacturing and marketing teams early in the process
is the cornerstone of our product development cycle. This collaboration allows these teams to
concentrate resources on the most viable and clinically relevant new products and technologies and
bring them to market in a timely manner. In addition to internal development, we work with hundreds
of leading research institutions, universities and clinicians around the world to develop, evaluate
and clinically test our products.

We believe our future success will depend upon the strength of these development efforts. We
expended more than $1 billion on research and development in 2009, 2008 and 2007, representing
approximately 13 percent of our net sales each year. Our investment in research and development
reflects:

•regulatory compliance, clinical science, and internal research and
development programs, as well as others obtained through our strategic
acquisitions and alliances; and•sustaining engineering efforts which incorporate customer feedback
into continuous improvement efforts for currently marketed and next
generation products.

Acquisitions and Alliances

Since 1995, we have undertaken strategic acquisitions to assemble the lines of business necessary
to achieve the critical mass that allows us to continue to be a leader in the medical device
industry. We expect to continue to invest in our core technologies, and are also investigating
opportunities to further expand our presence in, and diversify into, areas including atrial
fibrillation, underserved defibrillator populations, acute ischemic stroke, coronary artery
disease, peripheral vascular disease, structural heart disease, vascular closure, hypertension,
women’s health, endoluminal surgery, diabetes/obesity, endoscopic pulmonary intervention and deep
brain stimulation.

Products

During 2009, our products were offered for sale by six dedicated business groups—CRM, including our
Cardiac Rhythm Management and Electrophysiology businesses; Cardiovascular, including
our Interventional Cardiology and Peripheral Interventions businesses; Neurovascular; Endoscopy;
Urology/Women’s Health; and Neuromodulation. In 2010, we began the implementation of a restructured
business model that will allow us to operate in a more effective and efficient manner, and includes
the integration of our former CRM and Cardiovascular groups into a newly formed Cardiology, Rhythm
and Vascular group, which will include an Endovascular unit that will encompass Peripheral
Interventions, Neurovascular, Imaging and Electrophysiology.





During 2009, we derived 31 percent of our net sales from our CRM group, 43 percent from our
Cardiovascular group, 12 percent from our Endoscopy business, six percent from our
Urology/Women’s Health business, four percent from our Neuromodulation business, and four percent
from our Neurovascular business. The following section describes certain of our product offerings:

Cardiac Rhythm Management

We develop, manufacture and market a variety of implantable devices that monitor the heart and
deliver electricity to treat cardiac abnormalities, including:

•Implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD) systems used to detect and
treat abnormally fast heart rhythms (tachycardia) that could result in
sudden cardiac death, including implantable cardiac resynchronization
therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) systems used to treat heart failure; and•Implantable pacemaker systems used to manage slow or irregular heart
rhythms (bradycardia), including implantable cardiac resynchronization
therapy pacemaker (CRT-P) systems used to treat heart failure.

A key component of many of our implantable device systems is our remote LATITUDE® Patient
Management System, which enables physicians to monitor device performance remotely while patients
are in their homes, allowing for more frequent monitoring in order to guide treatment decisions.
Previously available only in the U.S. market, during 2009, we received CE Mark approval and
launched our LATITUDE® Patient Management System in our Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) region and
certain Inter-Continental countries.

Throughout 2008 and 2009, we launched several new CRM products, which accounted for 74 percent of
our worldwide CRM group net sales in 2009. We have experienced continued success with our
next-generation COGNIS® CRT-D and TELIGEN® ICD systems, as well as our ALTRUA® family of pacemaker
systems. In 2010, we will continue to execute on our product pipeline with the expected U.S.
launches of a new lead delivery system and next-generation line of defibrillators, which includes
new features designed to improve functionality, diagnostic capability and ease of use. Further, we
expect to launch our next-generation INGENIO™ pacemaker system in 2011.

Electrophysiology

Within our Electrophysiology business, we offer medical devices for the diagnosis and treatment of
cardiac arrhythmias. Included in our product offerings are RF generators, intracardiac ultrasound
and steerable ablation catheters, and diagnostic catheters. Our leading brands include the Blazer™
cardiac ablation catheter, the Chilli II® cooled ablation catheter and the MAESTRO 3000® Cardiac
Ablation System. During 2010, we anticipate several new product launches within our
Electrophysiology business, including the launch of the next-generation Blazer Prime™ in our EMEA
region and certain Inter-Continental countries.

Interventional Cardiology

Coronary Stent Systems

Our broad, innovative product offerings have enabled us to become a leader in the interventional
cardiology market. This leadership is due in large part to our coronary stent product offerings.
Coronary stents are tiny, mesh tubes used in the treatment of coronary artery disease, which are
implanted in patients to prop open arteries and facilitate blood flow to and from the heart. Our
Liberté® bare-metal coronary stent system is designed to enhance deliverability and conformability,
particularly in







Coronary Revascularization

We market a broad line of products used to treat patients with atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis, a
principal cause of coronary artery obstructive disease, is characterized by a thickening of the
walls of the coronary arteries and a narrowing of arterial openings caused by the progressive
development of deposits of plaque. The majority of our products in this market are used in
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) procedures and include bare-metal and
drug-eluting stent systems; PTCA balloon catheters, such as the Maverick® balloon catheter; the
Cutting Balloon® microsurgical dilatation device; rotational atherectomy systems; guide wires;
guide catheters and diagnostic catheters. We continue to hold a strong leadership position in the
PTCA balloon catheter market with approximately 57 percent share of the U.S. market in 2009, and are
planning a number of additional new product launches during 2010, including the Apex™ platinum
pre-dilatation balloon catheter for improved radiopacity, the NC Quantum ApexÔpost-dilatation balloon catheter and the KinetixÔfamily of guidewires.

Intraluminal Ultrasound Imaging

We market a family of intraluminal catheter-directed ultrasound imaging catheters and systems for
use in coronary arteries and heart chambers as well as certain peripheral vessels. The iLab®
Ultrasound Imaging System, available in the U.S., Japan and other international markets, continues
as our flagship console and is compatible with our full line of imaging catheters. This system
enhances the diagnosis and treatment of blocked vessels and heart disorders.

Peripheral Interventions

We sell various products designed to treat patients with peripheral disease (disease which appears
in blood vessels other than in the heart and in the biliary tree), including a broad line of
medical devices used in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and peripheral vascular stenting. Our
peripheral product offerings include vascular access products, balloon catheters, stents and
peripheral vascular catheters, wires and accessories, as well as products used for peripheral
embolization procedures. We also sell products designed to treat patients with non-vascular disease
(disease which appears outside the blood system). Our non-vascular suite of products
includes biliary stents, drainage catheters and micro-puncture sets designed to treat, diagnose and
ease various forms of benign and malignant tumors. We



1The growth of neointimal tissue within an
artery after angioplasty and stenting.





market the PolarCath™ peripheral dilatation system used in CryoPlasty® Therapy, an innovative
approach to the treatment of peripheral artery disease in the lower extremities. We believe that we
are well positioned in the growing Peripheral Interventions market, due in part to the recent
launches of our Carotid WALLSTENT® Monorail® Endoprosthesis for the treatment of patients with
carotid artery disease who are at high risk for surgery; our Express® SD Renal Monorail® premounted
stent system for use as an adjunct therapy to percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty in
certain lesions of the renal arteries; and our Sterling® Monorail® and Over-the-Wire balloon
dilatation catheter for use in the renal and lower extremity arteries. In addition, during the
first quarter of 2010, we expect to receive FDA approval for an iliac indication for our Express®
LD stent system.

Embolic Protection

Our FilterWire EZ™ Embolic Protection System is a low profile filter designed to capture embolic
material that may become dislodged during a procedure, which could otherwise travel into the
microvasculature where it could cause a heart attack or stroke. It is commercially available in the
U.S., our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries for multiple indications, including the
treatment of disease in peripheral, coronary and carotid vessels. It is also available in the U.S.
for the treatment of saphenous vein grafts and carotid artery stenting procedures.

Neurovascular

Endoscopy

Gastroenterology

We market a broad range of products to diagnose, treat and ease a variety of digestive diseases,
including those affecting the esophagus, stomach and colon. Common disease states include
esophagitis, portal hypertension, peptic ulcers and esophageal cancer. We offer the Radial Jaw® 4
Single-Use Biopsy Forceps, which are designed to enable collection of large high-quality tissue
specimens without the need to use large channel therapeutic endoscopes and, in 2009, began offering
this product in a variety of sizes. Our exclusive line of RX Biliary System™ devices provides
greater access and control for physicians to diagnose and treat challenging conditions of the bile
ducts, such as removing gallstones, opening obstructed bile ducts and obtaining biopsies in
suspected tumors. We also market the Spyglass® Direct Visualization System for direct imaging of
the pancreatico-biliary system. The Spyglass® System is the first single-operator
cholangioscopy device that offers clinicians a direct visualization of the pancreatico-biliary
system and includes supporting devices for tissue acquisition, stone management and lithotripsy.





We also offer the WallFlex® biliary stent system and WallFlex® esophageal stent, and our
Resolution® Clip Device, used to treat gastrointestinal bleeding, is the only currently-marketed
mechanical clip designed to open and close, up to five times, before deployment to help enable a
physician to see the effects of the clip before committing to deployment.

Interventional Bronchoscopy

We market devices to diagnose, treat and ease pulmonary disease systems within the airway and
lungs. Our products are designed to help perform biopsies, retrieve foreign bodies from the airway,
open narrowings of an airway, stop internal bleeding, and ease symptoms of some types of airway
cancers. Our product line includes pulmonary biopsy forceps, transbronchial aspiration needles,
cytology brushes and tracheobronchial stents used to dilate narrowed airway passages or for tumor
management.

Urology/Women’s Health

We sell a variety of products designed to treat patients with urinary stone disease, benign
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), stress urinary incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse and excessive
uterine bleeding. We offer the Prolieve Thermodilatation® System, a transurethral microwave
thermotherapy system for the treatment of BPH, and distribute and market the DuoTome™ SideLite™
holmium laser treatment system for treatment of symptoms associated with BPH. We offer a full line
of mid-urethral sling products, sling materials, graft materials, pelvic floor reconstruction kits,
suturing devices and injectables and have exclusive U.S. distribution rights to the Coaptite®
Injectable Implant, a next-generation bulking agent, for the treatment of stress urinary
incontinence.

We continue to expand our focus on women’s health. We market a range of devices for the treatment
of conditions such as female urinary incontinence, pelvic floor reconstruction (rebuilding of the
anatomy to its original state), and menorrhagia (excessive menstrual bleeding). Our Hydro
ThermAblator® System offers a less-invasive technology for the treatment of excessive uterine
bleeding by ablating the endometrial lining of the uterus, the tissue responsible for menstrual
bleeding.

Neuromodulation

Within our Neuromodulation business, we market the Precision® Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) system,
used for the management of chronic intractable pain of the trunk and/or limbs. This system delivers
pain management by applying an electrical signal to mask pain signals traveling from the spinal
cord to the brain. The Precision System utilizes a rechargeable battery and features a programming
system. We believe that we continue to have a technology advantage over our competitors with
proprietary features such as Multiple Independent Current Control, which is intended to allow the
physician to target specific areas of pain more precisely. As a demonstration of our commitment to
strengthening clinical evidence with spinal cord stimulation, we are initiating a trial to assess
the therapeutic effectiveness and cost effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation compared to
reoperation in patients with failed back surgery syndrome. We believe that this trial could result
in consideration of spinal cord stimulation much earlier in the continuum of care. Further, we
expect to launch two new lead products during 2010, which we believe will provide us with continued
growth in our Neuromodulation business.

Marketing and Sales

A dedicated sales force of approximately 5,000 individuals in over 40 countries worldwide marketed
our products as of December 31, 2009. The majority of our net sales are derived from countries in
which we have direct sales organizations. A network of distributors and dealers who offer our
products worldwide accounts for our remaining sales. We will continue to leverage our
infrastructure in markets where commercially appropriate and use third parties in those markets
where it is not economical or strategic to establish or maintain a direct presence. We also have a
dedicated corporate sales organization in the U.S.





focused principally on selling to major buying groups and integrated healthcare networks. We
consistently strive to understand and exceed the expectations of our customers. Each of our
business groups maintains dedicated sales forces and marketing teams focusing on physicians who
specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of different medical conditions. We believe that this
focused disease state management enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales
representatives and to foster collaborative relationships with physicians. We believe that we have
positive working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry, which enable us
to gain a detailed understanding of new therapeutic and diagnostic alternatives and to respond
quickly to the changing needs of physicians and their patients.

In 2009, we sold our products to over 10,000 hospitals, clinics, outpatient facilities and medical
offices. We are not dependent on any single institution and no single institution accounted for
more than ten percent of our net sales in 2009, 2008, or 2007. However, large group purchasing organizations,
hospital networks and other buying groups have become increasingly important to our business and
represent a substantial portion of our U.S. net sales.

International Operations

International net sales accounted for approximately 43 percent of our net sales in 2009. Net sales
and operating income attributable to our 2009 geographic regions are presented inNote P—Segment
Reportingto our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. During
the first quarter of 2009, we reorganized our international structure to provide more direct sales
focus in the marketplace and operate through three international business units, in addition to our
U.S. operating segment: EMEA, consisting of Europe, the Middle East and Africa; Japan; and
Inter-Continental, consisting of Asia Pacific and the Americas. We have reclassified previously
reported segment results to be consistent with the 2009 presentation,
contained inResults of
OperationsandNote P. In 2010, we will further restructure our international business into the
following business units, in addition to our U.S. operating segment: Europe, Japan, and Emerging
Markets, in order to be more effective in executing our business strategy. Maintaining and
expanding our international presence is an important component of our long-term growth plan.
Through our international presence, we seek to increase net sales and market share, leverage our
relationships with leading physicians and their clinical research programs, accelerate the time to
bring new products to market, and gain access to worldwide technological developments that we can
implement across our product lines.

We have five international manufacturing facilities in Ireland, two in Costa Rica and one in Puerto
Rico. Approximately 50 percent of our products sold worldwide during 2009 were manufactured at
these facilities. In early 2009, we announced our Plant Network Optimization program designed to
simplify our plant network, reduce our manufacturing costs and improve gross margins. In connection
with this program, we expect to rationalize two of our international manufacturing plants by the
end of 2011. Additionally, we maintain international research and development capabilities in
Ireland and Miyazaki, Japan, as well as physician training centers in Paris, France and Tokyo,
Japan.

A discussion of the risks associated with our international operations is contained in Item 1A of
this Annual Report.

Manufacturing and Raw Materials

We are focused on continuously improving our supply chain effectiveness, strengthening our
manufacturing processes and increasing operational efficiencies within our organization. By
shifting global manufacturing along product lines, we are able to leverage our existing resources
and concentrate on new product development, including the enhancement of existing products, and
their commercial launch. We are implementing new systems designed to provide improved quality and
reliability, service, greater efficiency and lower supply chain costs. We have substantially
increased our focus on process





controls and validations, supplier controls, distribution controls and providing our operations
teams with the training and tools necessary to drive continuous improvement in product quality. We
continue to focus on examining our operations and general business activities to identify
cost-improvement opportunities in order to enhance our operational effectiveness. Our Plant Network
Optimization program calls for reducing the number of our manufacturing plants from 17 to 12, and
relocating approximately 15 percent of our current value of production to different facilities. We
estimate that the program, combined with activities under our 2007
Restructuring plan, discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report,   will result
in annual reductions of manufacturing costs of approximately $100 million to $120 million in 2012.

Certain products are manufactured for us by third parties. We are currently reliant on Abbott
Laboratories for our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems in the U.S. and Japan. Our supply
agreement with Abbott for everolimus-eluting stent systems in these regions extends through the end
of the second quarter of 2012. At present, we believe that our supply of everolimus-eluting stent
systems from Abbott and our current launch plans for our next-generation internally-manufactured
everolimus-eluting stent system in these regions is sufficient to meet customer demand. However,
any production or capacity issues that affect Abbott’s manufacturing capabilities or our process
for forecasting, ordering and receiving shipments may impact the ability to increase or decrease
our level of supply in a timely manner; therefore, our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems
supplied to us by Abbott may not align with customer demand, which could have an adverse effect on
our operating results. We launched our internally developed and manufactured next-generation
everolimus-eluting stent system, our PROMUS® Element™ stent system, in our EMEA region and certain
Inter-Continental countries in the fourth quarter of 2009, and expect to launch this product in the
U.S. and Japan in mid-2012.

Quality Assurance

In January 2006, legacy Boston Scientific received a corporate warning letter from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) notifying us of serious regulatory problems at three of our
facilities and advising us that our corporate-wide corrective action plan relating to three
site-specific warning letters issued to us in 2005 was inadequate. During 2008, the FDA reinspected
a number of our facilities and, in October 2008, informed us that our quality system is now in
substantial compliance with its Quality System Regulations. The FDA has approved all of our
requests for final approval of Class III product submissions previously on hold due to the
corporate warning letter and is processing all requests for Certificates to Foreign Governments. In
November of 2009 and January of 2010, the FDA reinspected two official action-indicated Boston
Scientific sites to follow-up on observations from the 2008 FDA inspections. Both of these FDA
inspections confirmed that all issues at the sites have been resolved and all





restrictions related to the corporate warning letter have been removed. The corporate warning
letter remains in place pending FDA internal administrative procedures.

In addition, during the first quarter of 2009, we acquired a third-party sterilization facility
which was subject to a warning letter from the FDA. The FDA had requested documentation and
explanations regarding various corrective actions related to the facility. This information was
provided to the FDA and the FDA has since re-inspected the facility, issuing no observations, and
subsequently removed all restrictions related to the warning letter.

We are committed to providing high quality products to our customers. To meet this commitment, we
have implemented updated quality systems and concepts throughout our organization. Our quality
system starts with the initial product specification and continues through the design of the
product, component specification process and the manufacturing, sales and servicing of the product.
Our quality system is intended to build in quality and process control and to utilize continuous
improvement concepts throughout the product life. These systems are designed to enable us to
satisfy the various international quality system regulations, including those of the FDA with
respect to products sold in the U.S. All of our manufacturing facilities, including our U.S. and
European distribution centers, are certified under the ISO13485:2003 quality system standard for
medical devices, which requires, among other items, an implemented quality system that applies to
component quality, supplier control, product design and manufacturing operations. This
certification can be obtained only after a complete audit of a company’s quality system by an
independent outside auditor. Maintenance of the certification requires that these facilities
undergo periodic re-examination.

In addition, we maintain an on-going initiative to seek ISO14001 certification at our plants around
the world. ISO14001 is a globally recognized standard for Environmental Management Systems,
established by the International Standards Organization, which provides a voluntary framework to
identify key environmental aspects associated with our business. We engage in continuous
environmental performance improvement around these aspects. At present, nine of our manufacturing
and distribution facilities have attained ISO14001 certification. We are committed to achieving
ISO14001 certification at all of our manufacturing and distribution centers worldwide.

Competition

We encounter significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which we sell
our products from various companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing
resources than we do. Our primary competitors include Johnson & Johnson (including its subsidiary,
Cordis Corporation); Medtronic, Inc.; Abbott Laboratories and St. Jude Medical, Inc.; as well as a
wide range of medical device companies that sell a single or limited number of competitive products
or participate in only a specific market segment. We also face competition from non-medical device
companies, such as pharmaceutical companies, which may offer alternative therapies for disease
states intended to be treated using our products.

We believe that our products compete primarily on their ability to safely and effectively perform
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in a less-invasive manner, including clinical outcomes, ease
of use, comparative effectiveness, reliability and physician familiarity. In the current
environment of managed care, economically-motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare
providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly
required to compete on the basis of price, value, reliability and efficiency. We believe the
current global economic conditions and potential U.S. healthcare reform measures could put
additional competitive pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure
rates and market sizes. We recognize that our continued competitive success will depend upon our
ability to offer products with differentiated clinical outcomes, create or acquire innovative,
scientifically advanced technology, apply our technology cost-effectively and with superior quality
across product lines and markets, develop or acquire proprietary products, attract and





retain skilled development personnel, obtain patent or other protection for our products, obtain
required regulatory and reimbursement approvals, continually enhance our quality systems,
manufacture and successfully market our products either directly or through outside parties and
supply sufficient inventory to meet customer demand.

Regulatory Environment

The medical devices that we manufacture and market are subject to regulation by numerous regulatory
bodies, including the FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies. These agencies require
manufacturers of medical devices to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the
development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of medical devices.
Devices are generally subject to varying levels of regulatory control, the most comprehensive of
which requires that a clinical evaluation be conducted before a device receives approval for
commercial distribution.

The second process requires the submission of an application for PMA to the FDA to demonstrate that
the device is safe and effective for its intended use as manufactured. This approval process
applies to certain class III devices. In this case, two steps of FDA approval are generally
required before marketing in the U.S. can begin. First, we must comply with the applicable IDE
regulations in connection with any human clinical investigation of the device in the U.S. Second,
the FDA must review our PMA application, which contains, among other things, clinical information
acquired under the IDE. The FDA will approve the PMA application if it finds that there is a
reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended purpose.

The third process requires that an application for a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) be made to
the FDA for the use of a Humanitarian Use Device (HUD). A HUD is intended to benefit patients by
treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects, or is manifested in, fewer than 4,000
individuals in the U.S. per year. The application submitted to the FDA for an HDE is similar in
both form and content to a PMA application, but is exempt from the effectiveness requirements of a
PMA. This approval process demonstrates that there is no comparable device available to treat or
diagnose the condition, the device will not expose patients to unreasonable or significant risk,
and the benefits to health from use outweigh the risks. The HUD provision of the regulation
provides an incentive for the development of devices for use in the treatment or diagnosis of
diseases affecting smaller patient populations.

The FDA can ban certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices;
order repair, replacement or refund of these devices; and require notification of health
professionals and





others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the
public health. The FDA may also enjoin and restrain certain violations of the Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act pertaining to medical devices, or initiate action for
criminal prosecution of such violations. International sales of medical devices manufactured in the
U.S. that are not approved by the FDA for use in the U.S., or that are banned or deviate from
lawful performance standards, are subject to FDA export requirements. Exported devices are subject
to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the device is exported. Some countries do
not have medical device regulations, but in most foreign countries, medical devices are regulated.
Frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a foreign country prior to application in
the U.S. to take advantage of differing regulatory requirements. Most countries outside of the U.S.
require that product approvals be recertified on a regular basis, generally every five years. The
recertification process requires that we evaluate any device changes and any new regulations or
standards relevant to the device and conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance.
Where recertification applications are required, they must be approved in order to continue selling
our products in those countries.

In the European Union, we are required to comply with the Medical Devices Directive and obtain CE
Mark certification in order to market medical devices. The CE Mark certification, granted following
approval from an independent notified body, is an international symbol of adherence to quality
assurance standards and compliance with applicable European Medical Devices Directives. We are also
required to comply with other foreign regulations such as the requirement that we obtain approval
from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) before we can launch new products in
Japan. The time required to obtain these foreign approvals to market our products may vary from
U.S. approvals, and requirements for these approvals may differ from those required by the FDA.

We are also subject to various environmental laws, directives and regulations both in the U.S. and
abroad. Our operations, like those of other medical device companies, involve the use of substances
regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We do
not believe that compliance with environmental laws will have a material impact on our capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position. However, given the scope and nature of these laws,
there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not have a material impact on our results of
operations. We assess potential environmental contingent liabilities on a regular basis. At
present, we are not aware of any such liabilities that would have a material impact on our
business.

We believe that sound environmental, health and safety performance contributes to our competitive
strength while benefiting our customers, shareholders and employees. We are committed to continuous
improvement in these areas by reducing pollution, the depletion of natural resources, and our
overall environmental footprint. Specifically, we are working to optimize energy and resource
usage, ultimately reducing greenhouse gas emissions and waste. We are certified to the FTSE4 Good
Corporate Social Responsibility Index, managed by The Financial Times and the London Stock
Exchange, which measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognized standards of
corporate responsibility. This certification recognizes our dedication to those standards, and it
places us in a select group of companies with a demonstrated commitment to responsible business
practices and sound environmental policies.

Government Affairs

We maintain a global Government Affairs presence in Washington D.C. to actively monitor and
influence a myriad of legislative and administrative policies impacting us, both on a domestic and
an international front. The Government Affairs office works closely with members of Congress, key
Congressional committee staff and White House and Administration staff, which facilitates our
active engagement on issues affecting our business. Our proactive approach and depth of political
and policy expertise are aimed at having our positions heard by federal, state and global
decision-makers, while also advancing our business objectives by educating policymakers on our
positions, key priorities and the value of our





technologies. The Government Affairs office also manages our political action committee and works
closely with trade groups on issues affecting our industry and healthcare in general.

Third-Party Coverage and Reimbursement

Our products are purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers
around the world that typically bill various third-party payors, including governmental programs
(e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care programs, for the
healthcare services provided to their patients. Third-party payors may provide or deny coverage for
certain technologies and associated procedures based on independently determined assessment
criteria. Reimbursement by third-party payors for these services is based on a wide range of
methodologies that may reflect the services’ assessed resource costs, clinical outcomes and
economic value. These reimbursement methodologies confer different, and sometimes conflicting,
levels of financial risk and incentives to healthcare providers and patients, and these
methodologies are subject to frequent refinements. Third-party payors are also increasingly
adjusting reimbursement rates, often downwards, and challenging the prices charged for medical
products and services. There can be no assurance that our products will be covered automatically by
third-party payors, that reimbursement will be available or, if available, that the third-party
payors’ coverage policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably.

Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, are also underway
in many countries in which we do business. Implementation of cost containment initiatives and
healthcare reforms in significant markets such as the U.S., Japan, Europe and other international
markets may limit the price of, or the level at which reimbursement is provided for, our products
and may influence a physician’s selection of products used to treat patients. Spending on healthcare in some countries, including the U.S., may also be affected by the global economic slowdown.

Proprietary Rights and Patent Litigation

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements to
protect our intellectual property. We generally file patent applications in the U.S. and foreign
countries where patent protection for our technology is appropriate and available. As of December
31, 2009, we held more than 15,000 patents, and had approximately 10,000 patent applications
pending worldwide that cover various aspects of our technology. In addition, we hold exclusive and
non-exclusive licenses to a variety of third-party technologies covered by patents and patent
applications. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications will result in the
issuance of patents, that patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged or
circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad
to protect our technology or to provide us with a competitive advantage.

We rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with employees, consultants and other
parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. There can be no
assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any
breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that third
parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge.

There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in
the medical device industry, particularly in the areas in which we compete. We have defended, and
will continue to defend, ourselves against claims and legal actions alleging infringement of the
patent rights of others. Adverse determinations in any patent litigation could subject us to
significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, and, if
licenses are not available, prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our
products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we may find it
necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or
know-how and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Patent
litigation can be costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that our





litigation expenses will not be significant in the future or that the outcome of litigation will be
favorable to us. Accordingly, we may seek to settle some or all of our pending litigation,
particularly to manage risk over time. Settlement may include cross licensing of the patents that
are the subject of the litigation as well as our other intellectual property and may involve
monetary payments to or from third parties.

See
Item 3.Legal ProceedingsandNote L — Commitments and Contingenciesto our 2009 consolidated
financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of patent and other
litigation and proceedings in which we are involved. In management’s opinion, we are not currently
involved in any legal proceeding other than those specifically identified inNote L,which,
individually or in the aggregate, could have a material effect on our financial condition, results
of operations and liquidity.

Risk Management

The testing, marketing and sale of human healthcare products entails an inherent risk of product
liability claims. In the normal course of business, product liability and securities claims are
asserted against us. Product liability and securities claims may be asserted against us in the
future related to events unknown at the present time. We are substantially self-insured with
respect to product liability and intellectual property infringement claims. We maintain insurance policies providing limited coverage
against securities claims. The absence of significant third-party insurance coverage increases our
potential exposure to unanticipated claims or adverse decisions. Product liability claims, product
recalls, securities litigation and other litigation in the future, regardless of outcome, could
have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our risk management practices,
including limited insurance coverage, are reasonably adequate to protect against anticipated
product liability and securities litigation losses. However, unanticipated catastrophic losses
could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and
liquidity.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 26,000 employees, including approximately 14,000 in
operations; 6,000 in selling, marketing and distribution; 4,000 in clinical, regulatory and
research and development; and 2,000 in administration. Of these employees, we employed
approximately 10,000 outside the U.S., approximately 6,000 of whom are in the operations function.
We believe that the continued success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to
attract and retain qualified personnel.

Community Outreach

We are committed to making more possible in the communities where we work and live. We bring this
commitment to life by supporting health, education and research initiatives on a global, national
and local basis. Through the Boston Scientific Foundation, we fund non-profit organizations in our
local communities and medical education fellowships at institutions throughout the United States.
Our community grants support programs aimed at improving the lives of those with unmet needs by
engaging in partnerships that promote long-term, systemic change. The Foundation is committed to
funding organizations focused on increasing access to quality health care and improving educational
opportunities, particularly with regards to math, science, engineering and technology. A prominent
example of our ongoing commitment to patients is the Close the Gap program, which addresses
disparities in cardiovascular care for the underserved patient populations of women, black
Americans, and Latino Americans. Close the Gap increases awareness of cardiovascular risk factors,
teaches health care providers about cultural beliefs and barriers to treatment, and advocates for
measures that help ensure all patients receive the cardiovascular care they need.





Seasonality

Our worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, customer
purchases have historically been lighter in the third quarter of the year, as compared to other
quarters. This reflects, among other factors, lower demand during summer months, particularly in
European countries.

Available Information

Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our website
(www.bostonscientific.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the
material with or furnish it to the SEC. Printed copies of these posted materials are also available
free of charge to shareholders who request them in writing from Investor Relations, One Boston
Scientific Place, Natick, MA 01760-1537. Information on our website or connected to our website is
not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.

Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements

Except as required by law, we do not intend to update any forward-looking statements even if new
information becomes available or other events occur in the future. We have identified these
forward-looking statements, which are based on certain risks and uncertainties, including the risk
factors described in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors.” Factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements are contained below
and in the risk factors described in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors.”

CRM Products

•Our estimates for the worldwide CRM market, the increase in the size of the CRM market above
existing levels and our ability to increase CRM net sales and market share;





•The overall performance of, and referring physician, implanting physician and patient
confidence in, our and our competitors’ CRM products and technologies, including our COGNIS®
CRT-D and TELIGEN® ICD systems and our LATITUDE® Patient Management System;•The results of CRM clinical trials undertaken by us, our competitors or other third parties;•Our ability to successfully launch next-generation products and technology features worldwide;•Our ability to grow sales of both new and replacement implant units and to benefit timely from
the expansion of our CRM sales force;•Our ability to retain key members of our CRM sales force and other key personnel;•Competitive offerings in the CRM market and the timing of receipt of regulatory approvals to
market existing and anticipated CRM products and technologies; and•Our ability to avoid disruption in the supply of certain components, materials or products; or
to quickly secure additional or replacement components, materials or products on a timely
basis.

Coronary Stent Business

•Volatility in the coronary stent market, our estimates for the worldwide coronary stent market,  our ability to increase
coronary stent system  net sales, competitive
offerings and the timing of receipt of regulatory approvals, both in the U.S. and internationally, to
market existing and anticipated drug-eluting stent technology and other stent platforms;



•Our ability to successfully launch next-generation products and technology features, including our
TAXUS® Element™ and PROMUS® Element™ stent systems;



•The results of coronary stent clinical trials undertaken by us, our competitors or other third parties;



•Our ability to maintain or expand our worldwide market positions through reinvestment in our two
drug-eluting stent programs;



•Our ability to manage the mix of net sales of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott
relative to our total drug-eluting stent system net sales and to launch on-schedule around the world our
next-generation internally-manufactured everolimus-eluting stent system with gross profit margins more
comparable to our TAXUS® stent systems;



•Our share of the worldwide and U.S. drug-eluting stent markets, the distribution of market share within
the coronary stent market in the U.S. and around the world, the average number of stents used per
procedure, average selling prices, and the penetration rate of drug-eluting stent technology in the U.S.
and international markets;



•The overall performance of, and continued physician confidence in, our and other drug-eluting stent
systems, including our ability to adequately address concerns regarding the perceived risk of late stent
thrombosis and the relative benefit of our products in patient sub-segments;



•Our reliance on Abbott’s manufacturing capabilities and supply chain in the U.S. and Japan, and our
ability to align our everolimus-eluting stent system supply from Abbott with customer demand in these
regions;





•Enhanced requirements to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and around the world and the associated
impact on new product launch schedules and the cost of product approval and compliance; and•Our ability to retain key members of our cardiology sales force and other key personnel.

Litigation and Regulatory Compliance

•Any conditions imposed in resolving, or any inability to resolve, our corporate warning letter or
other FDA matters, as well as risks generally associated with our regulatory compliance and quality
systems in the U.S. and around the world;•Our ability to minimize or avoid future FDA warning letters or field actions relating to our
products and the on-going inherent risk of potential physician advisories or field actions related
to medical devices;•Heightened global regulatory enforcement arising from political and regulatory changes as well as
economic pressures;•The effect of our litigation and risk management practices, including self-insurance, and
compliance activities on our loss contingencies, legal provision and cash flows;•The impact of, and costs to resolve, our stockholder derivative and class action, patent, product
liability, contract and other litigation, governmental investigations and legal proceedings;•Costs associated with our on-going compliance and quality activities and sustaining organizations;•The impact of increased pressure on the availability and rate of third-party reimbursement for our
products and procedures worldwide; and•Legislative or regulatory efforts to modify the product approval or reimbursement process,
including a trend toward demonstrating clinical outcomes, comparative effectiveness and cost
efficiency.

Innovation

•Our ability to complete planned clinical trials successfully, to
obtain regulatory approvals and to develop and launch products on a
timely basis within cost estimates, including the successful
completion of in-process projects from purchased research and
development;•Our ability to manage research and development and other operating
expenses consistent with our expected net sales growth;•Our ability to develop next-generation products and technologies
successfully across all of our businesses;•Our ability to fund with cash or common stock any acquisitions or
alliances, or to fund contingent payments associated with these
alliances;•Our ability to achieve benefits from our focus on internal research
and development and external alliances and acquisitions as well as our
ability to capitalize on opportunities across our businesses;





•Our failure to succeed at, or our decision to discontinue, any of our
growth initiatives, as well as competitive interest in the same or
similar technologies;•Our ability to integrate the strategic acquisitions we have
consummated or may consummate in the future;•Our ability to prioritize our internal research and development
project portfolio and our external investment portfolio to identify
profitable growth opportunities and keep expenses in line with
expected revenue levels, or our decision to sell, discontinue, write
down or reduce the funding of any of these projects;•The timing, size and nature of strategic initiatives, market
opportunities and research and development platforms available to us
and the ultimate cost and success of these initiatives; and•Our ability to successfully identify, develop and market new products
or the ability of others to develop products or technologies that
render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.

International Markets

•Our dependency on international net sales to achieve growth;•Changes in our international structure and leadership;•Risks associated with international operations, including compliance
with local legal and regulatory requirements as well as changes in
reimbursement practices and policies; and•The potential effect of foreign currency fluctuations and interest
rate fluctuations on our net sales, expenses and resulting margins.

Liquidity

•Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund operations,
capital expenditures, litigation settlements and strategic investments
and acquisitions, as well as to effectively manage our debt levels and
covenant compliance;•Our ability to access the public and private capital markets when
desired and to issue debt or equity securities on terms reasonably
acceptable to us, including our ability to refinance timely the
majority of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit facility on
favorable terms;•Our ability to resolve open tax matters favorably and recover
substantially all of our deferred tax assets; and•The impact of examinations and assessments by domestic and
international taxing authorities on our tax provision, financial
condition or results of operations.

Restructuring Initiatives

•Our ability to implement, fund, and achieve timely and sustainable
cost improvement measures consistent with our expectations, including
our 2010 Restructuring plan, 2007 Restructuring plan, and Plant
Network Optimization program, each described in Item 7 of this Annual
Report;





•Our ability to maintain or expand our worldwide market positions in
the various markets in which we compete or seek to compete, as we
diversify our product portfolio and focus on emerging markets;•Risks associated with significant changes made or to be made to our
organizational structure pursuant to our 2010 Restructuring plan, 2007
Restructuring plan, and Plant Network Optimization program, or to the
membership and responsibilities of our executive committee or Board of
Directors;•Our ability to direct our research and development efforts to conduct
more cost effective clinical studies, accelerate the time to bring new
products to market, and develop higher payoff products;•Our ability to retain our key employees and avoid business disruption
and employee distraction as we execute our global compliance program,
2010 Restructuring plan, 2007 Restructuring plan and Plant Network
Optimization program; and•Our ability to maintain management focus on core business activities
while also concentrating on implementing strategic and restructuring
initiatives, including our 2010 Restructuring plan, 2007 Restructuring
plan and Plant Network Optimization program.

Several important factors, in addition to the specific risk factors discussed in connection with
forward-looking statements individually and the risk factors described in Item 1A under the heading
“Risk Factors,” could affect our future results and growth rates and could cause those results and
rates to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements and the risk
factors contained in this report. These additional factors include, among other things, future
economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions;
demographic trends; intellectual property, litigation and government investigations; financial
market conditions; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors, all of which are
difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. Therefore,
we wish to caution each reader of this report to consider carefully these factors as well as the
specific factors discussed with each forward-looking statement and risk factor in this report and
as disclosed in our filings with the SEC. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the
future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy
and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements
expressed in this report.



