Item 1A.RISK FACTORS.

You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to invest in our Company and our business because these risk factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating
results, financial condition, and cash flows. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business
operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Risks Related to Our Lead Product Soliris

We depend heavily on the
success of our lead product, Soliris, which was approved in the United States and in Europe in 2007 for the treatment of PNH. If we are unable to increase sales of Soliris in the United States and Europe and commercialize Soliris in additional
countries, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed.

Our
ability to generate revenues will depend on commercial success of Soliris in the United States, Europe and throughout the rest of the world and whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view Soliris as therapeutically effective and safe
relative to cost. Since we launched Soliris in the United States in April 2007, almost all of our revenue has been attributed to sales of Soliris, and we expect that Soliris product sales will continue to contribute to a significant percentage or
almost all of our total revenue over the next several years.

The commercial success of Soliris and our ability to generate
and increase revenues will depend on several factors, including the following:



•the number of patients with PNH who are diagnosed with the disease and identified to us;



•the number of patients with PNH that may be treated with Soliris;



•successful continuation of commercial sales in the United States and in European countries where we are already selling Soliris, and successful launch
in countries where we have not yet obtained marketing approval or commenced sales;



•ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors;



•acceptance of Soliris in the medical community;



•receipt and maintenance of marketing approvals from the United States and foreign regulatory authorities; and



•establishment and maintenance of commercial manufacturing capabilities ourselves or through third-party manufacturers.

We dedicate significant resources to the worldwide expansion of the commercialization of Soliris for the treatment of PNH. In the European
Union, we have established sales and marketing capabilities in several countries, and we continue discussions with appropriate authorities in other countries so that we may, upon conclusion of such discussions, commence commercial sales in those
countries. We have submitted applications for marketing authorization in additional territories, including Japan, and received approval in Canada and Australia in 2009 and South Korea and Switzerland in 2010. We cannot guarantee that our pending
marketing






applications, or any marketing applications that we file in the future, will be approved in all countries where we seek authorization to sell Soliris, or that we will be able to obtain
reimbursement for Soliris or that other discussions and processes will be concluded successfully or on a timely basis and, as a result, sales in certain countries may be delayed or never occur, or may be subsequently reduced. If we are not
successful in increasing sales of Soliris in the United States and Europe and commercializing in the rest of the world, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, we may experience a surplus inventory, our business may be materially harmed
and we may need to significantly curtail operations.

Because the target patient population of Soliris for the treatment of PNH is small
and has not been definitively determined, we must be able to successfully identify PNH patients and achieve a significant market share in order to achieve or maintain profitability.

The prevalence of PNH patients has not been definitively determined but can be estimated at approximately 8,000—10,000 total patients in
North America and Western Europe. There can be no guarantee that any of our programs will be effective at identifying PNH patients and the number of PNH patients in the United States and Europe may turn out to be lower than expected or may not be
otherwise amenable to treatment with Soliris, all of which would adversely affect our results of operations and our business.

If we are
unable to obtain and maintain reimbursement for Soliris from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, Soliris may be too costly for regular use and our ability to generate revenues would be
harmed.

We may not be able to sell Soliris on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are
required to sell our product at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. Soliris is significantly more expensive than traditional drug treatments and almost all patients require some form of third
party coverage to afford its cost. Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on governmental, private third-party payors and other third-party payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States or
country specific governmental organizations, to defray the cost of Soliris to the patient. If these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to Soliris or determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement
than anticipated, Soliris may be too costly for general use, and physicians may not prescribe it.






are not able to obtain coverage, pricing or reimbursement on terms acceptable to us or at all, or if such terms should change, in any foreign countries, we may not be able to or we may determine
not to sell Soliris in such countries and our plans for geographic expansion of sales and our business may be adversely affected as a result.

Many third-party payors cover only selected drugs, making drugs that are not preferred by such payor more expensive for patients, and require prior authorization or failure on another type of treatment
before covering a particular drug. Third-party payors may be especially likely to impose these obstacles to coverage for higher-priced drugs such as Soliris.

In addition to potential restrictions on coverage, the amount of reimbursement for Soliris may also reduce our profitability and worsen our financial condition. In the United States, European countries,
and elsewhere, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, actions and proposals to control and reduce healthcare costs. Government and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and
increasingly limiting and attempting to limit both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. A significant reduction in the amount of reimbursement for Soliris in one or more countries may have a material adverse effect on our
business. See additional discussion below under the headings “Healthcare reform measures could adversely affect our business” and “The current credit and financial market conditions may aggravate certain risks affecting our
business.”

Even where patients have access to insurance, their insurance co-payment amounts or annual or lifetime caps
on reimbursements may represent a barrier to obtaining or continuing Soliris. In the United States, Alexion has financially supported non-profit organizations, such as the PNH Fund of the National Organization for Rare Disorders, or NORD, which
assist patients in accessing treatment for PNH, including Soliris. Such organizations assist patients whose insurance coverage leaves them with prohibitive co-payment amounts or other expensive financial obligations. NORD’s, and other similar
organizations’, ability to provide assistance to PNH patients is dependent on funding from external sources, and we cannot guarantee that such funding will be provided at adequate levels, if at all. We have also provided Soliris without charge
to patients who have no insurance coverage for drugs for related charitable purposes. We are not able to predict the financial impact of the support we may provide for these and other charitable purposes; however, substantial support could have a
material adverse effect on our profitability in the future.

We may not be able to gain or maintain market acceptance among the medical
community or patients which would prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability in the future.

We cannot be
certain that Soliris will gain or maintain market acceptance in a particular country among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, and others. Although we have received regulatory approval for Soliris in certain territories, including the United
States and Europe, such approvals do not guarantee future revenue. We cannot predict whether physicians, other healthcare providers, government agencies or private insurers will determine that Soliris is safe and therapeutically effective relative
to its cost. Medical doctors’ willingness to prescribe, and patients’ willingness to accept, Soliris depends on many factors, including prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use,
effectiveness of our marketing strategy and the pricing of Soliris, publicity concerning Soliris, our other product candidates or competing products, our ability to obtain and maintain third-party coverage or reimbursement, and availability of
alternative treatments, including bone marrow transplants. If Soliris fails to achieve or maintain market acceptance among the medical community or patients in a particular country, we may not be able to market and sell it successfully in such
country, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and could harm our overall business.






If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with continuing United States and foreign
regulations, we could lose our approvals to market Soliris or our manufacturers could lose their approvals to manufacture Soliris, and our business would be seriously harmed.

Failure to comply with the laws, including
statutes and regulations, administered by the FDA, the EMEA or other agencies could result in:



•administrative and judicial sanctions, including, warning letters;



•fines and other civil penalties;



•withdrawal of a previously granted approval for Soliris;



•interruption of production;



•operating restrictions;



•delays in approving or refusal to approve Soliris or a facility that manufactures Soliris;



•product recall or seizure;



•injunctions; and



•criminal prosecution.






If the use of Soliris harms people, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated
to Soliris, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted and we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims.

The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of drugs for use in humans exposes us to product liability risks. Side effects and other problems from using Soliris could (1) lessen the frequency with
which physicians decide to prescribe Soliris, (2) encourage physicians to stop prescribing Soliris to their patients who previously had been prescribed Soliris, (3) cause serious adverse events and give rise to product liability claims
against us, and (4) result in our need to withdraw or recall Soliris from the marketplace. Some of these risks are unknown at this time.

We may be sued by people who use Soliris, whether as a prescribed therapy, during a clinical trial, during an investigator
initiated study, or otherwise. Many patients who use Soliris are already very ill. Any informed consents or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our trials or use Soliris may not protect us from liability or litigation. Our product liability
insurance may not cover all potential types of liabilities or may not cover certain liabilities completely. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. In addition, negative publicity relating to the use of Soliris or
a product candidate, or to a product liability claim, may make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to market and sell Soliris. As a result of these factors, a product liability claim, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Patients who use Soliris already often have severe and
advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks, including for example bone marrow failure. During the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including
death, for reasons that may or may not be related to Soliris. Such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or
maintain regulatory approval to market Soliris, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. Even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to Soliris, the investigation into the circumstance
may be time consuming or may be inconclusive. These investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, delay our regulatory approval process in other countries, or impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals Soliris receives or maintains.






Some patients treated with Soliris for PNH or other diseases, including patients who have
participated in our clinical trials, have died or suffered potentially life-threatening diseases either during or after ending their Soliris treatments. In particular, use of C5 Inhibitors, such as Soliris, is associated with an increased risk for
certain types of infection, including Neisseria bacteria. Serious cases of Neisseria infection can result in severe illness, including but not limited to brain damage, loss of limbs or parts of limbs, kidney failure, or death. PNH patients in our
TRIUMPH and SHEPHERD trials all received vaccination against Neisseria bacteria prior to first administration of Soliris and all patients who are prescribed Soliris are required by prescribing guidelines to be vaccinated prior to receiving their
first dose; however, vaccination does not eliminate all risk of becoming infected with Neisseria bacteria. Some patients treated with Soliris, who had been vaccinated, including patients who have participated in our trials of Soliris for the
treatment of PNH and other diseases, have become infected with Neisseria bacteria, including patients who have suffered serious illness or death. Each such incident is required to be reported to appropriate regulatory agencies in accordance with
relevant regulations.

We are also aware of a potential risk for PNH patients who delay a dose of Soliris or discontinue
their treatment of Soliris. Treatment with Soliris blocks complement and allows complement-sensitive PNH red blood cells to increase in number. If treatment with Soliris is thereafter delayed or discontinued, a greater number of
red blood cells therefore would become susceptible to destruction when the patient’s complement system is no longer blocked. The rapid destruction of a larger number of a patient’s red blood cells may lead to numerous complications,
including death. Several PNH patients in our studies of Soliris have received delayed doses or discontinued their treatment. In none of those circumstances were significant complications shown to be due to rapid destruction of a larger
number of PNH red blood cells; however, we have not studied the delay or termination of treatment in enough patients to determine that such complications in the future are unlikely to occur. Additionally, such delays or
discontinuations may be associated with significant complications without evidence of such rapid cell destruction. Clinical evaluations of outcomes in the post-marketing setting are required to be reported to appropriate regulatory agencies in
accordance with relevant regulations. Determination of significant complications associated with the delay or discontinuation of Soliris could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell Soliris for PNH.

Although we obtained regulatory approval of Soliris for PNH in the United States, Europe and other territories, we cannot guarantee that we will
obtain regulatory approval for Soliris in each territory where we seek approval.

Governments in countries outside the
United States and Europe regulate the distribution of drugs in such countries and the facilities where such drugs are manufactured, and obtaining their approvals can be lengthy, expensive and highly uncertain. The approval process varies from
country to country, and the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product manufacturing, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to finalize
operational, reimbursement, price approval and funding processes prior to marketing our products, even in countries where marketing approval has been obtained. Soliris became commercially available in certain countries in Europe in the fourth
quarter of 2007. We received regulatory approval for Soliris for treatment of patients with PNH in Canada and Australia in 2009 and in South Korea and Switzerland in 2010. We may not receive regulatory approval for Soliris in any other territories
for at least the next several years, if ever.

Regulatory agencies may require additional information or data with respect to
our submissions for Soliris for PNH. We may have to conduct additional lengthy clinical testing and other costly and time-consuming procedures to satisfy foreign regulatory agencies. Even with approval of Soliris in certain countries, the regulatory
agencies in other countries may not agree with our interpretations of our clinical trial data for Soliris






and may decide that our results are not adequate to support approval for marketing of Soliris. In those circumstances, we would not be able to obtain regulatory approval in such country on a
timely basis, if ever. Even if approval is granted in such country, the approval may require limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA
approval as well as country-specific regulations. We must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. For example,
we were required to conduct clinical studies with Soliris in patients with PNH in Japan; however, there is no assurance that the Japanese regulatory agency will find these studies sufficient for registration of Soliris in Japan.

Commercial quantities of Soliris can only be manufactured at two facilities, including our own facility in Rhode Island, and we are currently entirely
dependent on a single third party to manufacture commercial quantities of Soliris for sale in the United States. Our commercialization of Soliris may be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if we or any other supply vendor fails to provide
sufficient quantities of Soliris.

Until December 2009, only Lonza Sales AG, or Lonza, was capable of manufacturing
commercial quantities of Soliris. In December 2009, the E.C. approved the use of our Rhode Island manufacturing facility for the production of Soliris and we are authorized to sell product that is manufactured in our facility in the European Union
and certain other territories. However, we will not be capable of manufacturing Soliris for commercial sale in the United States on our own until such time as we have received the required FDA approval for our manufacturing facility in Rhode Island,
if ever. Therefore, we will continue to depend entirely on one company, Lonza, to manufacture Soliris for commercial sale in the United States until that time.

The manufacture of Soliris is difficult. Manufacture of a biologic requires a multi-step controlled process and even minor problems or deviations could result in defects or failures. We cannot be certain
that we or Lonza will be able to perform uninterrupted supply chain services. The failure to manufacture appropriate supplies of Soliris, on a timely basis, or at all, may prevent or interrupt the commercialization of Soliris. If we or Lonza were
unable to manufacture Soliris for any period, or if we do not obtain approval of our facility by the FDA, we may incur substantial loss of sales. If we are forced to find an alternative supplier for Soliris, in addition to loss of sales, we may also
incur significant costs in establishing a new arrangement.

We also depend on a few outside vendors for other services with
respect to our clinical and commercial requirements, including product finishing, packaging, vialing and labeling. We do not have control over any third-party manufacturer’s, vialer’s or other third party provider’s compliance with
the rules and regulations of the FDA, EMEA or any other applicable regulations or standards. Any difficulties or delays in our third party manufacturing and supply of Soliris and other product candidates, or any failure of our third party providers
to maintain compliance with the applicable regulations and standards could increase our costs, constrain our ability to satisfy demand for Soliris from customers, cause us to lose revenue, make us postpone or cancel clinical trials, or cause our
products to be recalled or withdrawn.

We are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and
the loss of, or significant reduction or cancellation in sales to, any one of these customers could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.

In the United States, we sell Soliris to specialty pharmacies and specialty distributors who in turn sell to patient health-care providers. We do not promote Soliris to these distributors, and they do not
set or determine






If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully
commercialize Soliris.

If we market Soliris in a manner that violates health care fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties.

In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the
federal False Claims Act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying,
soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service






reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally or state financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers
on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe
harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor.

Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the
federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as
allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set
reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, or “off-label” uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the
Medicaid Rebate Program.

Although physicians are permitted to, based on their medical judgment, prescribe products for
indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. We market Soliris for PNH and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians
regarding the use of Soliris for PNH. Although we believe our marketing materials and training programs for physicians do not constitute off-label promotion of Soliris, the FDA may disagree. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials,
training or other activities constitute off-label promotion of Soliris, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning
letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment
of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws,
we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters.

The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state
programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal
fines, and imprisonment. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would also harm our
financial condition. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors and because government scrutiny in this area is high, it is possible that some of our business activities could come under that scrutiny.

In recent years, several states and localities, including California, the District of Columbia, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico,
Vermont, and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical
trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the






penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. Nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and
other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity.

Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory
Approval of Our Product Candidates, Including Eculizumab for Indications Other than PNH

None of our product candidates except for
Soliris has received regulatory approvals. Soliris has not been approved for any indication other than for the treatment of patients with PNH. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals to market one or more of our product candidates, including
Soliris for other indications, our business may be adversely affected.

Outside the United States, our ability to market any of our potential products is dependent upon receiving marketing approvals from the appropriate regulatory authorities. These foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks
associated with the FDA approval process described above. If we are unable to receive regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates, and our business may be adversely affected.

Completion of preclinical studies or clinical trials does not guarantee advancement to the next phase of development.

Completion of preclinical studies or clinical trials does not guarantee that we will initiate additional studies or trials for our product
candidates, that if the studies or trials are initiated what the scope and phase of the trial will be or that they will be completed, or that if the studies or trials are completed, that the results will provide a sufficient basis to proceed with
further studies or trials or to apply for or receive regulatory approvals or to commercialize products. Results of clinical trials could be inconclusive, requiring additional or repeat trials. If the results achieved in our clinical trials are
insufficient to proceed to further trials or to regulatory approval of our product candidates, our company could be materially adversely affected. Failure of a preclinical study or a clinical trial to achieve its pre-specified primary endpoint
generally increases the likelihood that additional studies or trials will be required if we determine to continue development of the product candidate, reduces the






likelihood of timely development of and regulatory approval to market the product candidate, and may decrease the chances for successfully achieving the primary endpoint in scientifically similar
indications.

There are many reasons why drug testing could be delayed or terminated.

For human trials, patients must be recruited and each product candidate must be tested at various doses and formulations for each clinical
indication. In addition, to ensure safety and effectiveness, the effect of drugs often must be studied over a long period of time, especially for the chronic diseases that we are studying. Unfavorable results or insufficient patient enrollment in
our clinical trials could delay or cause us to abandon a product development program. We may decide to abandon development of a product candidate at any time, or we may have to spend considerable resources repeating clinical trials or conducting
additional trials, either of which would increase costs and delay any revenue from those product candidates, if any.

Additional factors that can cause delay, impairment or termination of our clinical trials or our product development efforts include:



•slow patient enrollment, including for example due to the rarity of the disease being studied;



•long treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness;



•lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate;



•disruption of operations at the clinical trial sites;



•adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients;



•the failure of patients taking the placebo to continue to participate in our clinical trials;



•insufficient clinical trial data to support effectiveness of the product candidates;



•lack of effectiveness or safety of the product candidate being tested;



•lack of sufficient funds;



•inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-efficient
manner; or



•failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for the product candidate or the approvals for the facilities in which such product candidate is
manufactured.

The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all
required regulatory approvals.

The preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of
pharmaceuticals are all subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities and agencies in the United States and other countries. We must obtain regulatory approval for each of our product candidates before marketing or selling any
of them. It is not possible to predict how long the approval processes of the FDA or any other applicable federal or foreign regulatory authority or agency for any of our product candidates will take or whether any such approvals ultimately will be
granted. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the drug approval process, and positive results in preclinical testing or early phases of clinical studies offer no assurance of success in later phases of the approval
process. The approval process varies from country to country and the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product manufacturing,






product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. Generally, preclinical and clinical testing of product candidates can take many years and require the
expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If we encounter significant delays in the regulatory
process that result in excessive costs, this may prevent us from continuing to develop our product candidates. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, approvals could adversely affect the marketing of our products and our ability to generate
product revenue. The risks associated with the approval process include:



•failure of our product candidates to meet a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality;



•limitation on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed;



•unforeseen safety issues or side effects; and



•governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements and guidelines.

Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and health care payors.

Inability to contract with third-party manufacturers and other third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or failure or delay by us our
third-party manufacturers or other third party providers to provide services with respect to our drug products in the volumes and quality required, would have a material adverse effect on our business.

Clinical quantities of eculizumab are manufactured by us in our Rhode Island facility and by Lonza. Clinical quantities of samalizumab are
manufactured solely by us in Rhode Island. Manufacture of our drug products is






highly technical, and only a small number of companies have the ability and capacity to manufacture our drug products for our development and commercialization needs. Due to the highly technical
requirements of manufacturing our drug products, we and our third-party collaborators may be unable to manufacture our drug products despite our and their efforts. In addition, we cannot be certain that any third party will be able or willing to
honor the terms of its agreement, including any obligations to manufacture the drug products in accordance with regulatory requirements and to our quality specifications and volume requirements.

Manufacture of drug products, including the need to develop and utilize manufacturing processes that consistently produce our drug products
to their required quality specifications, is highly regulated by the FDA and other domestic and foreign authorities. Regulatory authorities must approve the facilities in which our products are manufactured prior to granting marketing approval for
any product candidate. Manufacturing facilities are also subject to ongoing inspections, and minor changes in manufacturing processes may require additional regulatory approvals. We cannot assure you that we or our third-party collaborators will
successfully comply with all requirements and regulations, which failure could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We, and our outside manufacturers, may experience higher manufacturing failure rates than in the past, if and when, we attempt to
substantially increase production volume. If we experience interruptions in the manufacture of our products, our drug development and commercialization efforts will be delayed. If any of our outside manufacturers stops manufacturing our products or
reduces the amount manufactured, or is otherwise unable to manufacture our required amounts at our required quality, we may need to find other alternatives, which is likely to be expensive and time consuming, and also may result in reduced revenue
during this period. Even if we are able to find alternatives they may ultimately be insufficient for our needs. As a result, our ability to conduct testing and drug trials and our plans for commercialization could be materially adversely affected.
Submission of products and new development programs for regulatory approval, as well as our plans for commercialization, would be delayed or suspended. Our competitive position and our prospects for achieving or maintaining profitability could be
materially and adversely affected.

Due to the nature of the current market for third-party commercial manufacturing, many
arrangements require substantial penalty payments by the customer for failure to use the manufacturing capacity for which it contracted. Penalty payments under these agreements typically decrease over the life of the agreement, and may be
substantial initially and de minimis or non-existent in the final period. The payment of a substantial penalty could harm our financial condition.






Risks Related to Intellectual Property

If we cannot protect the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our trade secrets, and other intellectual property, our business and competitive
position will be harmed.

Our business requires using sensitive technology, techniques and proprietary compounds that
we protect as trade secrets. However, we may also rely heavily on collaboration with suppliers, outside scientists and other drug companies. Collaboration presents a strong risk of exposing our trade secrets. If our trade secrets were exposed, it
would help our competitors and adversely affect our business prospects.

In order to protect our drugs and technology more
effectively, we need to obtain and maintain patents covering the drugs and technologies we develop. We may obtain patents or the right to practice patents through ownership or license. Soliris and our drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming
to test and develop. Without patent protection, competitors may copy our methods, or the chemical structure or other aspects of our drugs. Even if we obtain and maintain patents, the patents may not be broad enough to protect our drugs from copycat
products.

If we are found to be infringing on patents owned by others, we may be forced to pay damages to the patent owner and/or
obtain a license to continue the manufacture, sale or development of our drugs. If we cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from the manufacture, sale or development of our drugs, including Soliris, which would adversely affect our business.



•Soliris and our product candidates do not infringe the patents;



•the patents are not valid; or



•we have identified and are testing various modifications that we believe should not infringe the patents and which should permit commercialization of
our product candidates.

Any holder of these patents or other patents covering similar technology could sue
us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling or developing our drugs. Legal disputes can be costly and time consuming to defend. If we cannot successfully defend against any future actions or conflicts, if they arise, we






may incur substantial legal costs and may be liable for damages, be required to obtain costly licenses or need to stop manufacturing, using or selling Soliris, which would adversely affect our
business. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A costly license, or inability to obtain a necessary license, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

There can be no assurance that we would prevail in a patent infringement action; that we would be able to obtain a license to any
third-party patent on commercially reasonable terms; successfully develop non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis; or license alternative non-infringing technology, if any exists, on commercially reasonable terms. Any impediment to our ability
to manufacture or sell approved forms of Soliris or our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.

Risks Related to Our Operations

We have had a history of losses and cannot
guarantee that we will achieve our financial goals, including our ability to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.

If our competitors get to the marketplace before we do, or with better
or cheaper drugs, Soliris and our product candidates may not be profitable to continue to pursue.

Both the FDA and the
E.C. granted orphan drug designation for Soliris in the treatment of PNH, which entitles us to exclusivity for a total of seven years in the United States and for ten years in Europe. However, if a competitive product that is the same as Soliris, as
defined under the applicable regulations, is shown to be






If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to continue the commercialization of Soliris or continue or
complete our product development.

We believe that revenues and collections from sales of Soliris along with our
existing cash and cash equivalents will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations and product development for at least twelve months. We may need to raise additional capital before or after that time to complete or continue the
development or commercialization of our products and product candidates. We are currently selling or preparing for the commercialization of Soliris in the United States, Europe and several other territories, evaluating and preparing regulatory
submissions for Soliris in several countries, and conducting, preparing or evaluating several clinical trials. Funding needs may shift between projects and potentially accelerate and increase as we continue launch and commercialization activities
throughout the world and as we initiate or continue clinical trials for our product candidates.

Additional financing could
take the form of public or private debt or equity offerings, equity line facilities, bank loans, collaborative research and development arrangements with corporate partners and/or the sale or licensing of some of our property. The amount of capital
we may need depends on many factors, including:



•the cost necessary to sell, market and distribute Soliris;



•the rate of new patient sales and drug utilization by treated patients;



•the time and cost necessary to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for Soliris and for eculizumab for other indications in multiple countries;



•the ability to obtain and maintain reimbursement approvals and funding for Soliris and the time necessary to obtain such approvals and funding;



•the time and cost necessary to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities outside the United States;



•the time and cost necessary to purchase or to further develop manufacturing processes, arrange for contract manufacturing or build manufacturing
facilities and obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for those facilities;






•changes in applicable governmental regulatory policies or requests by regulatory agencies for additional information or data;



•the progress, timing and scope of our research and development programs;



•the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; and



•any new collaborative, licensing or other commercial relationships that we may establish.

We may not receive funding when we need it or funding may only be available on unfavorable terms. Financial markets in the U.S., Europe and
the rest of the world have been experiencing significant volatility in security prices, substantially diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. There can be no
assurance that we will be able to access credit or equity markets in order to finance our operations in the United States or Europe, grow our operations in any territory, or expand development programs for our product candidates, or that there will
not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in economies. If we cannot raise adequate funds to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to delay, scale-back or eliminate our research and development activities or future
operations. We might have to license our technology to others or relinquish commercialization rights. This could result in sharing revenues that we might otherwise retain for ourselves. Any of these actions would harm our business.

If we fail to recruit and retain personnel, we may not be able to implement our business strategy.

We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific personnel, particularly Dr. Leonard Bell, M.D., our
Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, and Stephen P. Squinto, Ph.D., our Executive Vice President and Head of Research and Development. There is intense competition in the biopharmaceutical industry for qualified scientific
and technical personnel. Since our business is science-oriented and specialized, we need to continue to attract and retain such people. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our
business. We have employment agreements with Dr. Bell and Dr. Squinto. None of our key personnel is nearing retirement age or to our knowledge, planning to retire. To our knowledge, there is no tension between any of our key personnel and
the Board of Directors. If we are unable to retain and recruit highly qualified personnel, our ability to execute our business plan will be materially and adversely affected.

In particular, we highly value the services of Dr. Bell, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of his services could materially and
adversely affect our ability to achieve our objectives.

We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental
liabilities.

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our
operations, including the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, including medical and biological wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment, including air, soils and water sources. Failure to comply with such
laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances
into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating its property or locations to which wastes were sent from its facilities, without regard
to whether the owner or






operator knew of, or necessarily caused, the contamination. Such obligations and liabilities, which to date have not been material, could have a material impact on our business and financial
condition.

We may expand our business through acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that could disrupt our business and harm our
financial condition.

Our business strategy includes expanding our products and capabilities, and we may seek
acquisitions or in-licensing of business or products to do so. Acquisitions of new businesses or products and in-licensing of new products involve numerous risks, including:



•substantial cash expenditures;



•potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities;



•incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition;



•difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies;



•diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns;



•risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and



•the potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies.

Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if
there is a change in ownership of Alexion, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels.

As of
December 31, 2009, we have approximately $665.7 million of U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards, or NOL’s, available to reduce taxable income in future years. A portion of these NOL’s are currently subject to an annual
limitation under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We believe it is more likely than not that we will use the net operating losses. However, the ability to use net operating loss carryforwards will be dependent on our
ability to generate taxable income. The net operating loss carryforwards may expire before we generate sufficient taxable income. NOL’s totaling $3.8 million expired in the year ended December 31, 2007. No NOL’s expired during
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.






We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities
which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.

As a company with
international operations, we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities. Although we
believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome with respect to the taxes we owe may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements. If the Internal Revenue Service, or other taxing authority, disagrees with the
positions taken by our company, we could have additional tax liability, and this could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, the United States government and other governments are considering and
may adopt tax reform measures that significantly increase our worldwide tax liabilities and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our international sales and operations are subject to the economic, political, legal and business conditions in the countries in which we do business, and our failure to operate successfully or
adapt to changes in these conditions could cause our international sales and operations to be limited or disrupted.

Over the past few years, we have significantly expanded our international operations and expect to continue to do so in the future. Our operations in foreign countries subject us to the following additional risks:



•fluctuations in currency exchange rates;



•economic problems or political instability that disrupts foreign healthcare payment systems;



•difficulties or inability to obtain financing in international markets;



•unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;



•difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;



•changes in laws, regulations or enforcement practices with respect to our business, including without limitation laws relating to reimbursement,
competition, pricing and sales and marketing of our products;






•trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities;



•compliance with tax, employment and labor laws;



•costs and difficulties in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations; and



•longer payment cycles.

Our business and marketing methods are also subject to regulation by the governments of the countries in which we operate. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar
anti-bribery laws in other countries prohibit companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have policies and procedures
designed to help ensure that we and our representatives, including our employees, comply with such laws, however we cannot guarantee that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws for
actions taken by our representatives. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate could materially harm our business.

We conduct a substantial portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro, Japanese Yen, Swiss Franc and British Pound. While we attempt to hedge certain currency
risks, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused foreign currency transaction gains and losses in the past and will likely do so in the future. Likewise, past currency fluctuations have at
times resulted in foreign currency transaction gains, and there can be no assurance that these gains can be reproduced.

The credit and
financial market conditions may aggravate certain risks affecting our business.

Sales of Soliris are dependent, in
large part, on reimbursement from government health administration organizations and private and governmental third-party payors, and also co-payments from individual patients in certain situations. As a result of the current credit and financial
market conditions, and the overall financial climate, these governmental organizations and payors, and/or individuals, may reduce or delay initiation of treatment, may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations, may delay payment or may
seek to reduce reimbursement for Soliris in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Payment defaults by a government payor could require us to expense previously recorded revenue as
uncollectable, and might cause us to end or restrict sales to patients in that country. Further, the risk of payment default by a government payor could require us to revise our revenue recognition policies in regard to that payor, causing revenue
to be recorded only on a cash basis, and we may be required to end or restrict sales to patients in that country.

Additionally, we rely upon third-parties for certain parts of our business, including Lonza, licensees, wholesale distributors of Soliris, contract clinical trial providers, contract manufacturers and other third-party suppliers and
financial institutions. Because of the recent volatility in the financial markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third parties which could have a material adverse effect on our
business and results of operations.

Healthcare reform measures could adversely affect our business.

The United States government and governments in foreign countries have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform in order to
reduce costs of healthcare. Any government-adopted reform measures






could adversely impact the pricing of Soliris or the amount of reimbursement available for Soliris from governmental agencies or other third-party payors. The pricing and reimbursement
environment for Soliris may become more challenging due to, among other reasons, policies of the administration or new healthcare legislation passed by Congress, or other changes in policy in the United States or in foreign countries. While we
cannot predict what, if any, legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of such proposals could delay or prevent our entry into new markets, affect our reimbursement or sales in the markets where we are already
selling Soliris and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risks Related to Our
Common Stock

If the trading price of our common stock continues to fluctuate in a wide range, our stockholders will suffer
considerable uncertainty with respect to an investment in our common stock.

Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, provisions in our charter and
bylaws and our stockholders’ rights plan, or poison pill, could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult and may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management.

Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire
control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Laws, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock
from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.

Our corporate charter and by-law provisions and stockholder rights plan may discourage certain types of transactions
involving an actual or potential change of control that might be beneficial to Alexion or its stockholders. Our bylaws provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Secretary,
or a majority of the Board of Directors, or upon the written request of stockholders who together own of record 50% of the outstanding stock of all classes entitled to vote at such






meeting. Our bylaws also specify that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors. Our certificate does not include a provision for cumulative
voting for directors, which may have enabled a minority stockholder holding a sufficient percentage of a class of shares to elect one or more directors. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without
further action by stockholders, to designate up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or
series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future.

Pursuant to our stockholder rights plan, each share of common
stock has an associated preferred stock purchase right. The rights will not trade separately from the common stock until, and are exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 20% or
more of the outstanding common stock. The rights are designed to make it more likely that all of our stockholders receive fair and equal treatment in the event of any proposed takeover of us and to guard against the use of partial tender offers or
other coercive tactics to gain control of us. These provisions could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a
premium for their shares over then current prices. These provisions could also limit the ability of stockholders to remove current management or approve transactions that stockholders may deem to be in their best interests and could adversely affect
the price of our common stock.



