
10-K





                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, D.C 20549
                                _________________

                                    FORM 10-K
                                _________________

              (X)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1999
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-26038

                                   RESMED INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)

             DELAWARE                               98-0152841
     (State  or  other  jurisdiction  of     (I.R.S.  Employer
     incorporation  or  organization)         Identification  No.)

                            10121 CARROLL CANYON ROAD
                            SAN DIEGO  CA  92131-1109
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                  858 689 2400
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:

                              TITLE OF EACH CLASS:

                          Common Stock, $.004 Par Value
                       Rights to Purchase Series A Junior
                          Participating Preferred Stock

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding  12  months  (or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required  to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to filing requirements
for  the  past  90  days.

     Yes       X     No   -------

Indicate  by  check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulations S-K (S 229.405 of this Chapter) is not contained herein and will
not  be  contained to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or
any  amendment  to  this  Form  10-K(     ).

The  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  stock  held by non-affiliates of
Registrant  as  of  September 9, 1999, computed by reference to the closing sale
price  of  such stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market, was approximately $377,743,965
(All  directors and executive officers of Registrant are considered affiliates.)

At  September  9,  1999, Registrant had 14,876,459 shares of Common Stock, $.004
par  value,  issued  and  outstanding.

Portions  of  Registrant's  definitive  Proxy Statement for its November 8, 1999
meeting  of  stockholders  are  incorporated  by reference into Part III of this
report.


   THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDES FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS,
      WHICH ARE TYPICALLY IDENTIFIED BY THE WORDS "ANTICIPATES", "BELIEVES",
   "EXPECTS", "INTENDS", "FORECASTS", "PLANS", "FUTURE", "STRATEGY", OR WORDS OF
   SIMILAR IMPORT.  VARIOUS IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO
   DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE EXPRESSED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE
     IDENTIFIED BELOW IN PART I, ITEM 3 AND PART II, ITEM 7 OF THIS REPORT.

                                     PART I

Item  1.     Business
             --------

     General

ResMed  is a leading designer, manufacturer and distributor of medical equipment
for  treating  and  diagnosing  sleep disordered breathing ("SDB"). SDB includes
sleep  apnea  and related respiratory conditions.  The Company currently sells a
comprehensive  range  of  diagnostic  and treatment devices in over 40 countries
through a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and independent distributors.

When  ResMed was formed in 1989, its prime purpose was to commercialize a device
for  treating  obstructive  sleep  apnea  (OSA).  Developed  by  Professor Colin
Sullivan  of the University of Sydney, nasal continuous positive airway pressure
(CPAP)  was  the  first  successful  noninvasive  treatment  of  OSA.

Since  1989,  ResMed has broadened its focus to cover sleep disordered breathing
in  all  its  manifestations.  Operations  have  expanded  rapidly  through  the
introduction  of  a  number of highly innovative product lines. As of June 1999,
the  Company's  compound  annual growth rate was well in excess of market growth
rates:  39%  for  sales  and  55%  for  net income, using fiscal 1995 as a base.
ResMed  believes  its  success  is due to a continuing focus on sleep disordered
breathing  and  the  development of technology for treating its unwanted medical
consequences.

     Corporate  History

     ResMed  Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation,  was  formed  in March 1994 as the
ultimate  holding  company  for  its  Australian,  European  and  United  States
operating subsidiaries.  On June 1, 1995 the Company completed an initial public
offering  of  common  stock  and  on  June  2,  1995  the Company's common stock
commenced  trading  on  The  NASDAQ National Market.  Its Australian subsidiary,
ResMed  Holdings  Limited ("RHL"), was originally organized in 1989 by Dr. Peter
Farrell  to  acquire  from  Baxter  Center  for  Medical  Research  Pty  Limited
("Baxter"),  the rights to certain technology relating to CPAP treatment as well
as  Baxter's  existing  CPAP  device  business.  Baxter had sold CPAP devices in
Australia  since 1988, having acquired the rights to the technology in 1987 from
Dr.  Colin Sullivan of the University of Sydney, who invented nasal CPAP for the
treatment  of  OSA.  The  Company  and  its  subsidiaries,  since  1989,  have
specialized  in the design, manufacture and marketing of patented nasal CPAP and
variable  positive  airway pressure ("VPAP(Registered Trademark)") equipment for
the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of  sleep  disordered  breathing, primarily OSA.

     The  Company  acquired  the  distribution  businesses  of  Dieter  W Priess
Medtechnik, Premium Medical SARL and Innovmedics Pte Ltd, its German, French and
Singaporean  distributors,  on  February  7, 1996, June 12, 1996 and November 1,
1997,  respectively.

- -2-

     Obstructive  Sleep  Apnea

     OSA  is a breathing disorder in which an individual experiences a temporary
collapse  of  the  upper  airway  during  sleep.  This  restricts  breathing and
severely  disrupts  the  individual's  sleep.  Sleep  is  a complex neurological
process  that includes two distinct states: rapid eye movement ("REM") sleep and
non-rapid  eye  movement ("non-REM") sleep.  REM sleep, which is about 20-25% of
total  sleep  in  adults,  is  characterized  by a high level of brain activity,
bursts  of  rapid  eye  movement,  increased  heart  and  respiration rates, and
paralysis  of  many  muscles.  Non-REM sleep is subdivided into four stages that
generally  parallel  sleep  depth:  stage  1  is the lightest and stage 4 is the
deepest.

     The  upper  airway  has  no  rigid  support  and  is  held  open  by active
contraction  of  upper  airway  muscles.  Normally,  during REM sleep and deeper
levels  of  non-REM  sleep,  upper  airway muscles relax and the airway narrows.
Individuals  with  narrow  upper  airways or poor muscle tone are prone to upper
airway  closure during sleep (an "apnea"), resulting in an inability to breathe,
or near closure (an "hypopnea") which causes snoring and breathing difficulties.
These  breathing  irregularities  result  in  a  lowering  of  blood  oxygen
concentration,  until the brain reacts to the lack of oxygen or increased carbon
dioxide  and  signals  the  body  to  respond.  Typically,  the  individual
subconsciously  arouses from sleep, causing the throat muscles to contract, thus
opening  the  airway.  After a few gasping breaths, blood oxygen levels increase
and  the  individual  can  resume a deeper sleep until the cycle repeats itself.
The  cycle of complete or partial upper airway closure with subconscious arousal
to  lighter  levels  of  sleep  can be repeated as many as several hundred times
during  six  to eight hours of sleep.  Sufferers of OSA typically experience ten
or  more  such  cycles per hour.  These awakenings greatly impair the quality of
sleep,  although  the  individual  is  not  normally aware of these disruptions.

     Sleep  fragmentation  and  the loss of the deeper levels of sleep caused by
OSA  can  lead  to  excessive  daytime  sleepiness,  reduced  cognitive function
(including  memory  loss  and  lack  of  concentration)  and  irritability.  OSA
sufferers  also  may  experience  an  increase in heart rate and an elevation of
blood  pressure  during  the  cycle  of  apneas.  OSA  has  been associated with
employment  difficulties,  marital discord, impotence and other adverse effects.
Patients  with  OSA  have  been  shown to have impaired daytime performance in a
variety  of  cognitive  functions  including problem solving, response speed and
visual  motor  coordination.  Certain  studies  have  linked  OSA  to  increased
occurrences  of  traffic and workplace accidents.  Several reports indicate that
the oxygen desaturation, increased heart rate and elevated blood pressure caused
by  OSA  may  be  associated with increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and
mortality  due  to  angina,  stroke  and  heart  attack.

     The  Market

     In  its  "Wake  Up  America"  report  to  Congress  in  1993,  the National
Commission  on  Sleep Disorders Research estimated that approximately 40 million
individuals  in  the  United  States  suffer from chronic disorders of sleep and
wakefulness,  such  as  sleep apnea, insomnia and narcolepsy.  According to this
report,  sleep  apnea is the most common sleep disorder, affecting approximately
20  million  individuals  in  the  United  States.  Nearly  6.5 million of these
persons  over  the age of 30 experience moderate to severe forms of sleep apnea.
However,  there  is  a  general  lack of awareness of OSA among both the medical
community  and  the  general public, which has led to a corresponding failure to
diagnose  the  disorder.  It  is  estimated  that  less than 3% of those persons
afflicted by OSA know the cause of their fatigue or other symptoms.  Health care
professionals  are  often  unable  to diagnose OSA because they are unaware that
such  non-specific  symptoms  as  fatigue,  snoring  and  irritability  are
characteristic  of  OSA.

     While OSA has been diagnosed in a broad cross-section of the population, it
is  predominant  among  middle-aged  men and those who are obese, smoke, consume
alcohol  in  excess or use muscle-relaxing drugs.  In addition, patients who are
being  treated for certain other conditions, including those undergoing dialysis
treatment  or  suffering  from  diabetes,  may  be medically predisposed to OSA.

- -3-

     Generally,  an  individual  seeking  treatment  for  the symptoms of OSA is
referred  by a general practitioner to a specialist for further evaluation.  The
diagnosis  of  OSA  typically  requires  monitoring  the patient during sleep at
either  a  sleep  clinic  or  the  patient's  home.  During  overnight  testing,
respiratory  parameters  and sleep patterns are monitored along with other vital
signs  such  as  blood pressure, heart rate and blood oxygen levels. These tests
allow  sleep  clinicians  to  detect  any  sleep  disturbances  such  as apneas,
hypopneas  or  subconscious  awakenings.

     The  Company  estimates  that  there  are  currently  more than 1,800 sleep
clinics in the United States, a substantial portion of which are affiliated with
hospitals.  Sleep  clinics  generally  range  in size from one to six beds.  The
number  of  sleep clinics has expanded significantly from approximately 100 such
facilities  in  1985.  The  Company  believes that despite the increase in sleep
clinics,  testing  facilities  currently  remain inadequate to address the large
population  of  undiagnosed  OSA  sufferers.

     Existing  Therapies

     Prior  to 1981, the primary treatment for OSA was a tracheotomy, a surgical
procedure  to  cut  a  hole  in  the  patient's windpipe to create a channel for
airflow.  Most  recently,  surgery has involved either uvulopalatopharyngoplasty
("UPPP"),  in  which  surgery  is performed on the upper airway to remove excess
tissue  and to streamline the shape of the airway, or mandibular advancement, in
which  the lower jaw is moved forward to widen the patient's airway.  UPPP alone
has  a poor success rate; however, when performed in conjunction with mandibular
advancement,  a greater success rate has been claimed.  This combined procedure,
performed  by  highly  specialized surgeons, is expensive and involves prolonged
and  often  painful  recovery  periods.

     Nasal  CPAP  was  first  used  as  a treatment for OSA in 1980 by Dr. Colin
Sullivan,  the  Chairman  of the Company's Medical Advisory Board.  CPAP systems
were commercialized for treatment of OSA in the United States in the mid 1980's.
Today,  use  of  nasal positive airway pressure is generally acknowledged as the
most  effective  and  least  invasive  therapy  for  managing  OSA.  The Company
estimates  that  during  fiscal  1998,  CPAP  treatment  was prescribed for over
100,000  new  patients  in  the  United  States.

     During  nasal  CPAP treatment, a patient sleeps with a nasal mask connected
to a small portable air flow generator that delivers room air at a predetermined
positive  pressure.  The  patient  breathes  in  air from the flow generator and
breathes  out  through  an  exhaust  port  in the mask.  Continuous air pressure
applied  in this manner acts as a pneumatic splint to keep the upper airway open
and  unobstructed.  Upon  diagnosis  of  OSA  and the decision to prescribe CPAP
treatment  for  an  OSA  sufferer,  the  physician must determine an appropriate
pressure  setting  for  the  CPAP  device.  This pressure titration (adjustment)
procedure  typically  occurs  in the sleep clinic while the patient sleeps using
the CPAP device, and a technician manually increases the pressure until sleeping
and  breathing  are  normalized.  After  determination of the proper therapeutic
pressure, the patient is prescribed a nasal CPAP device set to that pressure for
home  use.

     CPAP  is not a cure, but a therapy for managing OSA, and therefore, must be
used on a nightly basis for life.  Patient compliance has been a major factor in
the  efficacy  of  CPAP  treatment.  Early  generations  of  CPAP units provided
limited patient comfort and convenience.  Patients experienced soreness from the
repeated  use  of  nasal  masks  and had difficulty falling asleep with the CPAP
device  operating  at the prescribed pressure.  Over the past few years, product
innovations to improve patient comfort and compliance have been developed. These
include  more  comfortable  mask systems, delay timers which gradually raise air
pressure  allowing  the  patient  to  fall  asleep more easily, and bilevel flow
generators,  including  VPAP  systems, which provide different air pressures for
inhalation  and  exhalation.

- -4-

     Business  Strategy

     ResMed  believes  that  the SDB market will increase in the future due to a
number  of factors including increasing awareness of OSA, improved understanding
of  the  role  of  cardiac  treatment  and related disorders, and an increase in
home-based  treatment  and  diagnosis.

     ResMed's  strategy for the expansion of its business operations consists of
the  following  key  elements:

     Continue Product Development and Innovation.  ResMed is a leading innovator
in products for the diagnosis and treatment of sleep disordered breathing. Since
its  founding,  ResMed  has  introduced  products  designed  to increase patient
comfort  and  encourage  compliance with therapy. ResMed believes that continued
product  development  and innovation will be key factors in its ongoing success.

     Expand  and  Deepen  Geographic  Presence.  ResMed  actively  markets  its
products  in  over  40  countries to sleep clinics, home health care dealers and
managed  care organizations.  ResMed intends to increase its sales and marketing
efforts in its current markets, especially Europe and the United States, as well
as  continue  geographic  expansion.

     In  June  1999,  ResMed  formed  a  strategic  alliance  with Critical Care
Concepts  Inc.  (3Ci)  to distribute selected ResMed products to the US hospital
market.

     In  February  1999,  ResMed  purchased  a minority holding in Flaga hf, the
Icelandic  manufacturer  of  the  Embla(Trademark)  range  of  sleep  diagnostic
equipment.  As  part of the agreement, ResMed will become Flaga's distributor of
Embla(Trademark)  equipment  in  the  US  and  selected  other  countries.

     Increase  Public  and  Clinical  Awareness.  ResMed  intends  to  promote
awareness  of  the prevalence of SDB and its treatment alternatives within three
main  groups:  (1)  the  population with predisposition to SDB; (2) primary care
physicians  and  other  specialists,  such  as  cardiologists, neurologists, and
pulmonologists;  and (3) special interest groups, such as sleep disorder support
groups.  ResMed  has  sponsored  several  international  symposia  on  different
clinical  effects  of  SDB,  including  the  cardiovascular  and cerebrovascular
implications  of  SDB.  As  well  as  educating  the  attending  healthcare
professionals,  each  conference  has  been  published  in  CD-ROM  format  for
distribution.

     Expand  into New Markets.  ResMed is working with physicians to explore new
medical  applications  for  nasal  CPAP,  including  the treatment of stroke and
cardiac  patients  as  well  as  post-operative  surgery  patients,  women  with
pre-eclampsia,  and  pediatric  patients. There is now a recognized link between
SDB  and  common diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, stroke,
and  cardiac  disease. New research on stroke and heart disease has found one in
two  people who suffer a stroke, snore heavily and have obstructive sleep apnea,
and  that  these conditions may play a major role in heart attack and high blood
pressure.  Treating  sleep  disordered  breathing  is  thus  promising  to be an
exciting,  clinically  important  and  fast-growing  business.

- -5-

     Products

     Currently,  ResMed  produces  nasal  CPAP,  VPAP(Registered  Trademark) and
AutoSet(Registered Trademark) systems for the diagnosis, titration and treatment
of  SDB. These are flow generator systems which deliver positive airway pressure
through  a  small  nasal mask. The flow of air acts like an "air splint" to keep
the  patient's upper airway open and prevent apneas. These apneas occur when the
muscles  that  normally  hold  the  airway open during sleep, relax too much and
close  the  airway  off.  AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  systems are based on a
proprietary  technology  that  can  also  be  used  in  the  diagnosis  of  OSA.

     ResMed  also  manufactures  air  delivery systems that include nasal masks,
tubing and headgear to connect the flow generator to the patient. In addition, a
growing  range  of sleep laboratory products and other accessories which improve
patient  comfort,  convenience  and  compliance  are  marketed.

     CPAP  and  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)

     Introduced in July 1995, the SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) V range of flow
generators  is  now  the Company's main CPAP flow generator product. Each of the
four  models in the range is small and compact and comes with different features
to  suit  different  patient  needs.

     ResMed  also  manufacturers  Variable  Positive  Airways  Pressure
(VPAP(Registered  Trademark))  units  which  deliver  ultra-quiet,  comfortable
bilevel  therapy. There are two preset pressures: a higher pressure for when the
patient  breathes  in  and  a  lower pressure for when the patient breathes out.
Breathing  out  against  a  lower  pressure  makes  treatment  more comfortable,
particularly  for  patients  who need high pressure levels, or for patients with
impaired  breathing  ability.

     ResMed  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  systems  have  gained a reputation for
delivering  comfortable  treatment.  This is due to a unique feature called IPAP
MAX(Trademark),  which  helps  to  ensure  the  system  matches  the  patient's
respiratory  cycle. The patient can thus tolerate the VPAP(Registered Trademark)
system  better,  resulting  in  more  effective  bilevel  therapy.

     There  are  five  models  in  the  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  range:  the
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  II,  the
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  Comfort,  the  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)
VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  II  ST,  the  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)
VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  II  ST-A  and  the  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)
VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  MAX(Trademark).

     The  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  MAX(Trademark)  is  a Ventilatory Support
System  for  the  treatment  of adult patients with respiratory insufficiency or
respiratory  failure.  In  1998,  the  system  received FDA clearance for the US
hospital  critical  care  market.

     CPAP  and  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  units  are  sold to the end user at
prices  which  vary  from approximately $800 to $6,000, depending primarily upon
the model, features required and country of sale.  Flow generators accounted for
approximately  64%,  66%  and  67% of the Company's net revenues in fiscal 1999,
1998  and  1997  respectively.

     AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  T

     In  March  1999, the Company introduced the AutoSet(Registered Trademark) T
home  CPAP  unit  for use in the treatment of SDB conditions. While conventional
CPAP  units  operate  at  a  fixed  CPAP  pressure, actual pressure required for
effective  treatment of OSA can vary depending on factors such as weight change,
alcohol  consumption,  sedative  use,  stage  of  sleep  and body position.  The
AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  T is designed to continually detect the level of
airway  resistance  and adjust the air pressure to the required level throughout
the night.  This results in greater patient comfort and reduced pressure related
side  effects.

     AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  diagnostic  systems  for  managing  OSA

     ResMed  markets  devices  incorporating  its  innovative AutoSet(Registered
Trademark) technology for the diagnosis, titration and treatment of SDB in sleep
clinics,  hospitals  and  patients'  homes.  The  AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)
Portable II Plus is a fully portable system for diagnosing OSA in sleep clinics,
hospitals  or patients' homes, giving sleep clinics and specialists the means to
expand  their  capabilities  and increase patient throughput. AutoSet(Registered
Trademark)  Portable II  Plus records  relevant respiratory data, which can then
be  downloaded  to  a  computer  for  review  and  print  out.

- -6-

     In  1999, ResMed will release  the AutoSet(Registered Trademark)  Clinical
III  software.  This  new  software  enables  the  AutoSet(Registered Trademark)
Portable  II  Plus  to  provide  real  time  data  during  sleep  studies.

     The following table lists the Company's products.



- -7-

Innovative  Mask  Systems
- -------------------------

     In  August  1997, ResMed  released  the  Mirage(Registered Trademark)  mask
system.  The Mirage(Registered Trademark) is suitable for both conventional CPAP
and bilevel therapy, is small, lightweight,  and  designed  for  maximum patient
comfort.  The specially contoured silicone cushion inflates with air pressure to
gently  "float" on the patient's face. A number of other design features enhance
comfort  and  convenience  and  ensure  effective  pressure  delivery.

     The  standard  Mirage(Registered  Trademark)  size fits most people so that
clinicians  can  fit  masks  faster and more easily. Inventory costs can also be
reduced with the Mirage(Registered Trademark) as it eliminates the need to carry
a  large  range  of  types  and  sizes  of  mask.

     The  Mirage(Registered  Trademark)  Full  Face  Mask for patient compliance

     Released  in  June  1999,  the  Mirage(Registered Trademark) Full Face mask
expands on the innovative design of the Mirage(Registered Trademark) nasal mask.
The  Mirage(Registered Trademark) Full Face Mask provides an effective method of
applying  ventilatory assist (Noninvasive Positive Pressure Ventilation - NPPV -
therapy)  and  can  be  used to address mouth-breathing problems in conventional
bilevel  or  CPAP  therapy.

     A  range  of  other  mask  systems

     ResMed  also  sells  cushions,  frames and headgear separately.  A patented
Bubble  Cushion(Registered  Trademark), made from a thin, soft silicone membrane
readily  conforms  to  the patient's facial contours to form a seal and minimize
air  leakage.  The  cushion  complies with body movement and eliminates the need
for  tight  headgear  to  form  a  secure  seal.

     Typically, patients replace mask cushions once or twice a year and headgear
every  three  to  six  months.  Bubble Masks(Registered Trademark) are available
in  a  variety of sizes and are sold independently of ResMed systems, either  as
replacement products  or  with  other  manufacturers' devices.  The Company also
manufactures the Bubble Mask(Registered Trademark) on an OEM  basis for  one  of
its  competitors.

     Mask  systems,  accessories  and other products accounted for approximately
36%,  34%  and  33% of the Company's net revenues in fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

     Accessories  and  Other  Products
     ---------------------------------

     In  order  to  enhance  patient comfort, convenience and compliance, ResMed
markets  a  variety  of  other products and accessories.  These products include
humidifiers,  such  as  the  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  HumidAire  , which
connect directly with the CPAP and VPAP(Registered Trademark) flow generators to
humidify  and,  if  desired,  heat  the air delivered to the patient.  Their use
prevents  the  drying  of  nasal  passages  which  can  cause discomfort.  Other
optional  accessories  include  carry  bags  and  replacement  filters.

     ResMed  also  manufactures and distributes products that are used primarily
in  sleep  clinics  and  hospitals to monitor key respiratory parameters.  These
products  include  the Embla range of sleep diagnostic products, manufactured by
Flaga  HF, as well as CPAP devices together with additional diagnostic tools, to
assist  clinicians  in  the  diagnosis  of  OSA and establishment of therapeutic
pressures  necessary  to  treat  OSA  suffers.

     The  Universal Control Unit (UCU) was first introduced in October 1995.  It
was  superseded  in June 1997 by the UCU2.  The UCU2 is a monitoring device used
by  clinicians  to  measure  and adjust the pressure being delivered by a ResMed
CPAP  or  bilevel  device  to a patient undergoing a sleep study.  It allows the
clinician  to conduct this review and adjustment from a remote location within a
sleep  lab.

- -8-

     The  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  Compliance  Application  (SCAN  ),
introduced  in October 1995, and superseded in June 1997 by SCAN  2.0, comprises
the  software  necessary  to  download compliance data from flow generators with
recording capabilities.  Clinicians can use SCAN  2.0 to track how often and how
long  a  patient  is undergoing treatment. In connection with a modem, SCAN  2.0
allows  compliance  data  to  be downloaded from a flow generator in a patient's
home  direct  to  the  sleep  laboratory.

     Product  Development

     The  Company  is committed to an ongoing program of product advancement and
development.  Currently,  product  development  efforts  are  focused  on
AutoSet(Registered  Trademark) systems, improved CPAP, VPAP and mask systems and
manufacturing  cost-reduction  programs.

     The  Company consults with physicians at major sleep centers throughout the
world  to  identify technological trends in the treatment of SDB.  Some of these
physicians currently serve on the Company's Medical Advisory Board.  New product
ideas  are also identified by the Company's marketing staff, direct sales force,
network of distributors, manufacturers' representatives and patients. Typically,
ResMed's  internal  development staff then perform new product development.  The
Company  has collaborative arrangements with researchers in several institutions
including  the  University  of  Sydney Medical School, as well as other research
groups  around  the  world  such  as  Brown,  Edinburgh,  Essen,  University  of
California,  San  Diego  and  Harvard  Medical  Schools.

     In  the  three fiscal years ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company
expended  $6,542,000,  $4,994,000  and $3,807,000, respectively, on research and
development.

     Sales  and  Marketing

     The  Company  currently  markets  its products in over 40 countries using a
network  of  distributors,  independent  manufacturers'  representatives and its
direct  sales  force.  The  Company attempts to tailor its marketing approach to
each  national  market,  based on regional awareness of SDB as a health problem,
physician  referral  patterns,  consumer  preferences  and  local  reimbursement
policies.

     North  America.  In  the  United States, the Company's marketing activities
are  conducted  through  a  field  sales  organization  comprised of 23 regional
territory representatives, program development specialists and diagnostic system
specialists, plus two regional sales directors and 54 independent manufacturers'
representatives.  The  United  States field sales organization markets and sells
products  to more than 4,500 home health care dealer branch locations throughout
the  United  States.

     The  Company  also  promotes  and  markets  its  products directly to sleep
clinics.  Patients  who are diagnosed with OSA and prescribed CPAP treatment are
typically  referred  by the diagnosing sleep clinic to a home health care dealer
to fill the prescription.  The home health care dealer, in consultation with the
referring physician, will assist the patient in selecting the equipment, fit the
patient  with  the  appropriate  mask and set the flow generator pressure to the
prescribed  level.  In  the  United  States,  sales employees and manufacturers'
subrepresentatives  are  managed  by  the  two  regional  sales managers and the
Company's  Vice President - US Sales.  In addition, the Company has a Director -
US  Marketing,  responsible  for  marketing in the United States.  The Company's
Canadian  and  Latin   American  sales  are  conducted  through  independent
distributors.  Sales in North America accounted  for 57%,  52%  and  43%  of the
Company's total net revenues for the fiscal  years  ended  June  30, 1999,  1998
and  1997,  respectively.

- -9-

     Europe.  The Company markets its products in most major European countries.
ResMed  has  fully  owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany and France
and uses independent distributors to sell its products in other areas of Europe.
These  distributors  have been selected in each country based on their knowledge
of respiratory medicine as well as a commitment to SDB therapy.  In each country
in which the Company has a subsidiary, a local senior manager is responsible for
direct  national  sales.  In  addition,  the  Company  uses  a  consultant  in
Switzerland  to  assist  in  sales  and  marketing efforts for selected European
countries.

     The  Company's  Executive Vice President is responsible for coordination of
all  European distributors and, in conjunction with local management, the direct
sales  activity in Europe. Sales in Europe accounted for 34%, 35% and 44% of the
Company's  total net revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and
1997,  respectively.

     Australia/Rest  of World.  Marketing in Australia and the rest of the world
is  also the responsibility of the Executive Vice President.  Sales in Australia
and  the  rest of the world accounted for 9%, 13% and 13% of the Company's total
net  revenues  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  June  30,  1999,  1998  and 1997,
respectively.

     Manufacturing

     The  Company's  principal  manufacturing  facilities are located in Sydney,
Australia.  The Company's manufacturing operations consist primarily of assembly
and  testing  of  the  Company's flow generators, masks and accessories.  Of the
numerous  raw  materials,  parts  and  components  purchased for assembly of the
Company's  therapeutic  and  diagnostic  sleep  disorder  products,  most  are
off-the-shelf  items  available  from  multiple  vendors.

     The  Company's quality control group performs tests at various steps in the
manufacturing  cycle to ensure compliance with the Company's specifications.  In
April  1999  the  Company  completed  construction  of  its  120,000 square feet
manufacturing  and  R&D  facility  in  Sydney,  Australia.

     The  Company  generally  manufactures  to  its internal sales forecasts and
fills orders as received.  As a result, the Company generally has no significant
backlog  of  orders  for  its products.  The Company uses management information
systems to integrate its manufacturing planning, billing and accounting systems.

     Service  and  Warranty

     The Company offers one-to-two year limited warranties on its flow generator
products.  Warranties  on  mask  systems  are for 90 days.  In most markets, the
Company  relies  on its distributors to repair the Company's products with parts
supplied  by  the  Company.  In  the  United  States,  home  health care dealers
generally  arrange  shipment of products to the Company's San Diego facility for
repair.

     The Company has received returns of its products from the field for various
reasons.  The  Company  believes that the level of returns it has experienced to
date is consistent with levels typically experienced by manufacturers of similar
devices.  The  Company  provides  for warranties and returns based on historical
data.

     Third-Party  Reimbursement

     The  cost  of  medical care is funded in substantial part by government and
private  insurance  programs.  Although  the  Company does not generally receive
payments  for  its products directly from these payors, the Company's success is
dependent  upon the ability of patients to obtain adequate reimbursement for the
Company's  products.

- -10-

     In  the  United  States,  the Company's products are purchased primarily by
home  health  care  dealers,  hospitals  or  sleep  clinics,  which then invoice
third-party  payors directly.  Domestically third-party payors include Medicare,
Medicaid  and  corporate  health  insurance  plans.  These  payors  may  deny
reimbursement  if  they  determine  that a device is not used in accordance with
cost-effective  treatment  methods,  or  is  experimental,  unnecessary  or
inappropriate.  Third-party  payors  are  also  increasingly  challenging prices
charged  for  medical  products  and services, and certain private insurers have
initiated reimbursement systems designed to reduce health care costs.  The trend
towards  managed  health  care  and  the  concurrent  growth of HMOs which could
control  or  significantly  influence  the  purchase of health care services and
products,  as well as legislative proposals to reform health care, may result in
lower  prices  for  the  Company's  products.

     In  some  foreign  markets,  such  as Spain, France and Germany, government
reimbursement  is  currently  available  for purchase or rental of the Company's
products  subject,  however, to constraints such as price controls or unit sales
limitations.  In  Australia and in some other foreign markets there is currently
limited  or  no  reimbursement  for  devices  that  treat  OSA.

     Competition

     The markets for the Company's products are highly competitive.  The Company
believes  that  the  principal  competitive  factors  in  all of its markets are
product  features, reliability and price.  Reputation and efficient distribution
are  also  important  factors.

     The  Company  competes  on a market-by-market basis with various companies,
some  of  which  have  greater  financial, research, manufacturing and marketing
resources  than  the  Company.  In  the  United  States,  its  principal market,
Respironics,  Inc.  ("Respironics"),  DeVilbiss,  a  division of Sunrise Medical
Inc.,  and  Nellcor  Puritan Bennett, a subsidiary of Mallinckrodt, Inc. are the
primary  competitors  for  the Company's CPAP products.  The Company's principal
European  competitors  are  also  Respironics,  DeVilbiss  and  Nellcor  Puritan
Bennett,  as well as regional European manufacturers.  The disparity between the
Company's  resources  and  those  of  its competitors is likely to increase as a
result  of  the  recent trend towards consolidation in the health care industry.
In  addition, the Company's products compete with surgical procedures and dental
appliances  designed  to treat OSA and other SDB related respiratory conditions.
The  development  of  new  or  innovative  procedures or devices by others could
result  in the Company's products becoming obsolete or noncompetitive, resulting
in  a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and
results  of  operations.

     Any  product  developed by the Company that gains regulatory clearance will
have  to compete for market acceptance and market share.  An important factor in
such  competition  may  be  the  timing  of  market  introduction of competitive
products.  Accordingly,  the  relative  speed with which the Company can develop
products,  complete  clinical  testing  and  regulatory  clearance processes and
supply  commercial  quantities  of  the product to the market are expected to be
important  competitive  factors.  In  addition, the Company's ability to compete
will  continue  to be dependent on the extent to which the Company is successful
in  protecting  its  patents  and  other  intellectual  property.

     Patents  and  Proprietary  Rights  and  Related  Litigation

     The  Company,  through  its subsidiary ResMed Limited, owns or has licensed
rights  to  12  issued United States patents (including 2 design patents) and 20
issued  foreign patents.  In addition, there are 56 pending United States patent
applications  (including  10  design patent applications) and 98 pending foreign
patent  applications.  Some  of  these patents and patent applications relate to
significant  aspects  and  features  of  the  Company's products.  These include
United States patents relating to CPAP devices, a delay timer system, the Bubble
Mask(Registered Trademark), and an automated means of varying air pressure based
upon a patient's changing needs during nightly use, such as that employed in the
Company's  AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  Device.

- -11-

     None  of  the  Company's  patents are due to expire in the next five years,
with  the  exception  of  four foreign patents due to expire in April 2002.  The
Company believes that the expiration of these  patents will not have a  material
adverse  impact  on  the  Company's  competitive  position.

     The  Company  relies  on  a  combination  of  patents,  trade  secrets,
non-disclosure  agreements  and  proprietary know-how to protect its proprietary
technology  and  rights.  ResMed  Limited  is  pursuing  an  infringement action
against  one  of  its  competitors and is investigating possible infringement by
others.  See  Item  3-  "Legal  Proceedings."

     Additional litigation may be necessary to attempt to enforce patents issued
to  the  Company,  to  protect  the  Company's  proprietary rights, or to defend
third-party  claims  of infringement by the Company of the proprietary rights of
others.  Patent  laws  regarding the enforceability of patents vary from country
to  country.  Therefore,  there  can  be no assurance that patent issues will be
uniformly  resolved, or that local laws will provide the Company with consistent
rights  and  benefits.

     Government  Regulations

     The  Company's products are subject to extensive regulation particularly as
to  safety,  efficacy  and  adherence to FDA Quality System Regulation (QSR) and
related  manufacturing  standards.  Medical  device  products  are  subject  to
rigorous  FDA and other governmental agency regulations in the United States and
regulations  of  relevant  foreign  agencies  abroad.  The  FDA  regulates  the
introduction,  manufacture,  advertising,  labeling,  packaging,  marketing,
distribution,  and  record  keeping  for  such products, in order to ensure that
medical  products  distributed  in  the United States are safe and effective for
their  intended  use.  In  addition,  the FDA is authorized to establish special
controls to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of most
devices.  Noncompliance  with  applicable  requirements  can  result  in  import
detentions,  fines,  civil  penalties,  injunctions,  suspensions  or  losses of
regulatory  approvals,  recall  or  seizure of products, operating restrictions,
refusal  of  the  government to approve product export applications or allow the
Company  to  enter  into  supply  contracts,  and  criminal  prosecution.

     The  FDA requires that a manufacturer introducing a new medical device or a
new  indication  for  use  of an existing medical device obtain either a Section
510(k) premarket notification clearance or a premarket approval ("PMA") prior to
it  being  introduced into the market. The Company's products currently marketed
in  the  United  States  are  marketed  in  reliance  on  510(k)  pre-marketing
clearances.  The  process  of  obtaining  a  Section  510(k) clearance generally
requires  the  submission  of performance data and often clinical data, which in
some  cases  can  be extensive, to demonstrate that the device is "substantially
equivalent" to a device that was on the market prior to 1976 or to a device that
has  been  found  by the FDA to be "substantially equivalent" to such a pre-1976
device.  As  a  result,  FDA  approval  requirements  may extend the development
process  for a considerable length of time.  In addition, in some cases, the FDA
may  require  additional review by an advisory panel, which can further lengthen
the  process.  The  PMA  process, which is reserved for new devices that are not
substantially  equivalent  to  any predicate device and for high risk devices or
those that are used to support or sustain human life, may take several years and
requires  the  submission  of  extensive  performance  and clinical information.

     As a medical device manufacturer, the Company is subject to inspection on a
routine  basis  by  the  FDA for compliance with the FDA's QSR regulations which
impose  procedural  and  documentation  requirements  with  respect  to  design,
manufacturing  and  quality  control  activities.  The Company believes that its
design,  manufacturing  and  quality control procedures meet the requirements of
the  regulations.

- -12-

     Sales  of  medical  devices  outside  the  United  States  are  subject  to
regulatory  requirements that vary widely from country to country.  Approval for
sale  of the Company's medical devices in Europe is through the CE mark process.
The  Company's  products where appropriate, are CE marked to the European Unions
Medical  Device  Directive.

     Employees

     As  of  June  30,  1999,  the  Company  had  477 employees and 24 full time
consultants,  of  which  207  persons  were  employed  in  warehousing  and
manufacturing, 82 in research and development, 114 in sales, marketing and 98 in
administration.  Of the Company's employees and consultants, 338 were located in
Australia, 86 in the United States, 68 in Europe and 9 in Singapore, New Zealand
and  Malaysia.

     The Company believes that the success of its business will depend, in part,
on its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.  None of the Company's
employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  The Company believes
that  its  relationship  with  its  employees  is  good.

     Medical  Advisory  Board

The  Company's  international  Medical  Advisory  Board  ("MAB")  consists  of
physicians  and  scientists  specializing  in  the  field  of  sleep  disordered
breathing.  MAB  members  meet  as  a  group  twice  a  year with members of the
Company's  senior  management  and  members  of  its  research  and  marketing
departments  to  advise  the  Company  on  technology  trends  in  SDB and other
developments  in  sleep  disorders  medicine.  MAB members are also available to
consult  on  an  as-needed  basis  with  senior  management of the Company.  MAB
members  include:

Michael  Coppola,  MD,  age  46  is  a leading pulmonary critical care and sleep
disorders  physician  in  private practice in Massachusetts.  He is an attending
physician at Baystate Medical Center and Mercy Hospital in Springfield, MA and a
Fellow  of  the  American  College  of  Chest  Physicians. He is Chairman of the
Massachusetts  Sleep Breathing Disorders Society and Medical Director of Medical
Care Partners a multispecialty medical group. He is also the Medical Director of
Olympus  Specialty  Hospital,  Medical  Director  of Winmar Diagnostics, a Sleep
Disordered  Breathing  specialty  company,  and a member of the faculty of Tufts
University  School  of  Medicine.

Neil J. Douglas, MD FRCP, age 51 is Professor of Respiratory and Sleep Medicine,
University  of  Edinburgh,  an Honorary Consultant Physician, Royal Infirmary of
Edinburgh  and Director of the Scottish National Sleep Laboratory. He is Dean of
the  Royal  College of Physicians of Edinburgh and Vice Chairman of the UK Royal
Colleges  Committee  of CME Directors and a member of the Working Party on Sleep
Apnea  of  the  Royal College of Physicians of London.  He is a past Chairman of
the British Sleep Society and past Secretary of the British Thoracic Society. He
has  published  over  200  papers  on  breathing  during  sleep.

Nicholas  Hill,  MD,  age  49  is  Professor of Medicine at Brown University and
Director  of  Critical Care Services at Rhode Island Hospital. He is a Fellow of
the  American  College  of Chest Physicians.  His main research interests are in
the acute and chronic applications of non-invasive positive pressure ventilation
for  treating  lung  disease.

Dr  Barry  J  Make,  MD,  age  52  is  Director,  Emphysema Center and Pulmonary
Rehabilitation  National  Jewish  Medical  and Research Center, and Professor of
Pulmonary  Sciences  and  Critical  Care  Medicine of the University of Colorado
School  of  Medicine.  He  has  served  on  numerous  national and international
committees,  many  of  which were associated with respiratory and cardiovascular
diseases.  His  research  and  clinical  work  has resulted in a large number of
publications  on  treatment  of,  and  rehabilitation from, respiratory disease.

- -13-

Colin  Sullivan, MD PhD FRACP, age 55 is Chairman of the MAB and the inventor of
nasal CPAP for treating obstructive sleep apnea. He is Professor of Medicine and
Director of the David Read Laboratory at the Sydney University Medical School as
well  as  a thoracic physician at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital. In addition,
he is a Fellow of the Royal Australian College of Physicians and Director of the
National  SIDS  Council  Pediatric  Sleep Laboratory at the Children's Hospital,
Westmead.  Dr  Sullivan has continued to contribute to the Company's innovation,
product  development  and  clinical  testing.

Helmut Teschler, MD, age 46 is Associate Professor and Head of the Department of
Respiratory  Medicine  and  Sleep  Medicine,  Ruhrlandklinik,  Medical  Faculty,
University  of  Essen,  Germany.  He  is  a  Fellow  of  each  of  the following
Associations:  German  Pneumology  Society,  American Thoracic Society, European
Respiratory  Society,  and  American  Sleep  Disorders  Association.  He  is  an
internationally  recognized  researcher  in  respiratory  medicine  and  sleep
disorders  medicine.

J.  Woodrow Weiss, MD, age 50 is Associate Professor of Medicine and Co-Chairman
of  the  Division of Sleep Medicine at Harvard Medical School, as well as Chief,
Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston
MA.  Dr  Weiss  is  an  internationally recognized researcher in sleep disorders
medicine.

B.  Tucker  Woodson,  MD  FACS,  age  42 is an otolaryngologist and an Associate
Professor  of Surgery at the Medical College of Wisconsin. He is a Fellow of the
American  Academy  of  Otolaryngology  -  Head and Neck Surgery and the American
College  of  Surgeons.  Dr  Woodson is the Co-Director of the Medical College of
Wisconsin/Froedert  Memorial Lutheran Hospital Center for Sleep. He did surgical
training  with  Dr.  Fujita,  the  pioneer of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty to treat
obstructive  sleep  apnea.  He has a primary research interest in developing new
methods  for  surgical  management of sleep apnea and improved evaluation of the
upper airway.  He is a strong proponent of nasal CPAP and teaches extensively to
other  surgeons.

Members  of  the  Medical  Advisory  Board,  other than Dr. Sullivan, receive an
honorarium  as  well as reimbursement of traveling costs and other out-of-pocket
expenses  incurred  in  attending  any  conferences  as  may be requested by the
Company.

Item  2     Properties
            ----------

ResMed's  principal executive offices, consisting of approximately 23,000 square
feet,  are  located  in San Diego, California.  The Company leases this property
pursuant  to  an  eight year lease which is scheduled to expire in 2005. Primary
manufacturing  operations are situated in Sydney, Australia in a newly completed
120,000  square  feet  facility  owned  by  the  Company.

Sales  and  warehousing  facilities  are  also  leased  in  Oxford,  England,
Moenchengladbach,  Germany,  Lyon,  France  and  Singapore.

Item  3     Legal  Proceedings
            ------------------

The  company  is currently engaged in litigation relating to the enforcement and
defense  of  certain  of  its  patents.

- -14-

In  January  1995,  the  Company filed a complaint in the United States District
Court  for the Southern District of California seeking monetary damages from and
injunctive  relief  against Respironics for alleged infringement of three ResMed
patents.  In  February  1995, Respironics filed a complaint in the United States
District  Court  for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania against the Company
seeking  a  declaratory  judgment  that  Respironics does not infringe claims of
these patents and that the Company's patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The
two actions were combined and are proceeding in the United States District Court
for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania.  In June 1996, the Company filed an
additional  complaint  against  Respironics  for infringement of a fourth ResMed
patent, and that complaint was consolidated with the earlier action.  As of this
date,  Respironics  has  brought  three  partial  summary  judgment  motions for
non-infringement  of  the  ResMed  patents;  the  Court  has  granted two of the
motions,  and  the  third is currently awaiting judicial action.  It is ResMed's
intention  to  appeal the summary judgment rulings after a final judgment in the
consolidated  litigation  has  been  entered  in the District Court proceedings.

In  May  1995,  Respironics  and its Australian distributor filed a Statement of
Claim  against  the  Company  and Dr. Farrell in the Federal Court of Australia,
alleging  that  the Company engaged in unfair trade practices.  The Statement of
Claim asserts damage claims for lost profits on sales in the aggregate amount of
approximately  $1,000,000.  While  the  Company  intends  to defend this action,
there  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  Company will be successful or that the
Company  will  not  be  required  to make significant payments to the claimants.
Furthermore,  the Company expects to incur ongoing legal costs in defending this
action,  as  well  as  in  the  continuing  litigation  of  its  patent  cases.

Item  4     Submission  of  Matter  to  a  Vote  of  Security  Holders
            ----------------------------------------------------------

     None

                                     PART II

Item 5     Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
           ---------------------------------------------------------------------

     The  common  stock  of the Company commenced trading on June 2, 1995 on The
NASDAQ  National Market under the symbol "RESM".  The following table sets forth
for  the fiscal periods indicated the high and low closing prices for the Common
Stock  as  reported  by  NASDAQ.



     As  of September 9, 1999, there were approximately 3,611 beneficial holders
of  the Company's Common Stock.  The Company does not intend to declare any cash
dividends  in  the  foreseeable  future.

- -15-

Item  6     Selected  Financial  Data
            -------------------------





- -16-

Item  7     Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial Condition and
            --------------------------------------------------------------------
Results  of  Operations
- -----------------------

     Management's  discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  selected financial data and
consolidated  financial  statements  and  notes,  included  herein.

     The  Company  designs, manufactures and markets equipment for the diagnosis
and  treatment  of  sleep disordered breathing conditions, including obstructive
sleep  apnea.  The  Company's  net  revenues  are generated from the sale of its
various  flow  generator  devices,  nasal  mask  systems,  accessories and other
products,  and,  to  a lesser extent from royalties.  The Company receives other
income  through  interest  and  certain  Australian  government  grants.

     The  Company has invested significant resources in research and development
and  product  enhancement.  Since  1989,  the  Company  has  developed  several
innovations  to  the  original  CPAP  device  to increase patient comfort and to
improve  ease  of product use. The Company has recently been developing products
for  automated  treatment, titration and monitoring of OSA, such as the recently
released AutoSet(Registered Trademark) T flow generator.  The Company's research
and  development  expenses  are  subsidized in part by grants and tax incentives
from  the  Australian  federal government.  The Company has also received grants
from  the Australian federal government to support marketing efforts to increase
Australian  export  sales, and for incorporation of computer components into its
products.

     The  Company's  income  tax  rate is governed by the laws of the regions in
which the Company's income is recognized.  To date, a substantial portion of the
Company's income has been subject to income tax in Australia where the statutory
rate  is  36%.  During  fiscal  1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company's effective tax
rate  has  fluctuated  from  approximately  35%  to  approximately  33%.  These
fluctuations  have  resulted  from,  and  future effective tax rates will depend
upon,  numerous  factors,  including  the  amount  of  research  and development
expenditures  for  which a 125% Australian tax deduction is available, the level
of  non-deductible  expenses,  and  the  use  of  available  net  operating loss
carryforward  deductions  and  other  tax  credits  or benefits available to the
Company  under  applicable  tax  laws.

     Fiscal  Year  Ended  June  30, 1999 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended  June 30,

     Net  Revenues.  Net revenues increased in fiscal 1999 to $88.6 million from
$66.5  million  in  fiscal  1998,  an  increase  of  $22.1 million or 33%.  This
increase  was  primarily  attributable  to  an  increase  in  unit  sales of the
Company's  flow  generators  and  accessories in the Americas where net revenues
increased  to  $51.0  million  from  $34.3  million  and, to a lesser extent, in
Europe,  where  net revenues increased to $30.2 million from $23.3 million.  Net
revenues  also  improved  due to a shift to higher-priced bilevel based products
such  as  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)II  ST and
increased  sales  of  patient  mask  systems.

     Gross  Profit.  Gross profit increased in fiscal 1999 to $59.2 million from
$43.5 million in fiscal 1998, an increase of $15.8 million or 36%.  The increase
resulted  primarily  from increased unit sales during fiscal 1999.  Gross profit
as  a percentage of net revenues increased in fiscal 1999 to 66.8% from 65.3% in
1998.  The increase was primarily due to improved manufacturing efficiencies and
increased  sales  of  higher  margin  bilevel  units.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative  Expenses.  Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  increased  in 1999 to $27.4 million from $21.1 million
for  1998, an increase of $6.3 million or 30%.  As a percentage of net revenues,
selling,  general  and administrative expenses decreased in fiscal 1999 to 30.9%
from 31.7% for fiscal 1998.  The gross increase in expenses was due primarily to
an  increase to 212 from 158 in the number of sales and administrative personnel
and  other  expenses  related  to  the  increase  in  the  Company's  sales.

- -17-

     Research  and  Development  Expenses.  Research  and  development  expenses
increased  in  fiscal  1999 to $6.5 million from $5.0 million in fiscal 1998, an
increase  of $1.5 million or 31%.  As a percentage of net revenues, research and
development  expenses  in  fiscal  1999 marginally declined to 7.4% from 7.5% in
fiscal  1998.  The  dollar increase in research and development expenses was due
primarily  to  an  increase in research and development equipment, personnel and
external  consultancy  fees.

     Other  Income (expense).  Other income (expense) improved in fiscal 1999 to
a  loss of $0.7 million from a loss of $1.3 million for fiscal 1998, a change of
$0.6  million.  This improvement was due primarily to reduced losses incurred in
the  Company's  foreign currency hedging structures, partially offset by reduced
license  fee  income.  Foreign currency losses for fiscal 1999 were $2.5 million
compared  to  net  foreign  currency  losses  of  $4.0  million  in  1998.

     Income  Taxes.  The  Company's  effective  income  tax rate for fiscal 1999
increased to approximately 34.5% from approximately 34.1% for fiscal 1998.  This
increase  was  primarily  due  to the high relative taxes incurred in France and
Germany.  These  higher  tax  rates were partially offset by additional research
and  development  expenses  in  Australia  for which the Company received a 125%
deduction  for  tax  purposes.

     Fiscal  Year  Ended  June  30, 1998 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended  June 30,

     Net  Revenues.  Net revenues increased in fiscal 1998 to $66.5 million from
$49.2  million  in  fiscal  1997,  an  increase  of  $17.3 million or 35%.  This
increase  was  primarily  attributable  to  an  increase  in  unit  sales of the
Company's  flow  generators  and  accessories  in  America  where  net  revenues
increased  to  $34.3  million  from  $21.3  million  and, to a lesser extent, in
Europe,  where  net revenues increased to $23.3 million from $21.5 million.  Net
revenues  also  improved  due to a shift to higher-priced bilevel based products
such  as  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)II  ST and
improved  patient  mask  systems.

     Gross  Profit.  Gross profit increased in fiscal 1998 to $43.5 million from
$28.9  million  in  1997,  an  increase  of  $14.6 million or 50%.  The increase
resulted  primarily  from increased unit sales during fiscal 1998.  Gross profit
as  a percentage of net revenues increased in fiscal 1998 to 65.3% from 58.7% in
1997.  The  increase  was  primarily due to improved manufacturing efficiencies,
increased  sales  of  higher  margin  diagnostic  and  bilevel  units  and a 21%
devaluation  in  the  Australian  dollar,  in  which the Company's manufacturing
activities  are  denominated.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative  Expenses.  Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  increased  in 1998 to $21.1 million from $16.8 million
for  1997, an increase of $4.3 million or 26%.  As a percentage of net revenues,
selling,  general  and administrative expenses decreased in fiscal 1998 to 31.7%
from 34.1% for fiscal 1997.  The gross increase in expenses was due primarily to
an  increase to 158 from 113 in the number of sales and administrative personnel
and other expenses related to the increase in the Company's sales.  In addition,
the  Company  incurred substantial legal fees with respect to its ongoing patent
action  of  $1,189,000  and  $924,000  in  1998  and  1997,  respectively.

     Research  and  Development  Expenses.  Research  and  development  expenses
increased  in  fiscal  1998 to $5.0 million from $3.8 million in fiscal 1997, an
increase  of $1.2 million or 31%.  As a percentage of net revenues, research and
development  expenses  in  fiscal  1998 marginally declined to 7.5% from 7.7% in
fiscal  1997.  The  dollar increase in research and development expenses was due
primarily  to  an  increase  in  research and development equipment and external
consultancy  fees.

     Other Income (expense).  Other income (expense) decreased in fiscal 1998 to
a  loss  of $1.3 million from a gain of $2.8 million for fiscal 1997, a decrease
of  $4.1  million.  This  decrease  was  due primarily to losses incurred in the
Company's  foreign  currency  hedging  structures  as  a  consequence of the 21%
devaluation  in  the  Australian  dollar  during  fiscal 1998.  Foreign currency
losses  for fiscal 1998 were $4.0 million compared to net foreign currency gains
of  $1.6  million  in  1997.

- -18-

     Income  Taxes.  The  Company's  effective  income  tax rate for fiscal 1998
increased to approximately 34.1% from approximately 32.7% for fiscal 1997.  This
increase  was  primarily  due  to  the  high relative taxes incurred in Germany.
These  higher  tax  rates  were  partially  offset  by  additional  research and
development  expenses  in  Australia  for  which  the  Company  received  a 125%
deduction  for  tax  purposes.

     Recent  Accounting  Developments

     SFAS  No.  133,  "Accounting  for  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities"  (SFAS  133), was issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
in  June  1998  and  is effective for the Company's quarter ending September 30,
2000.  SFAS  133  standardizes  the  accounting  for  derivative  instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts.  Under the
standard,  entities  are  required  to  carry  all derivative instruments in the
balance  sheet at fair value.  The accounting for changes in the fair value (ie,
gains  or  losses)  of  a  derivative  instrument depends on whether it has been
designated  and  qualifies  as part of a hedging relationship and, if so, on the
reason  for  holding  it.  If  certain conditions are met, entities may elect to
designate  a  derivative  instrument  as a hedge of exposures to changes in fair
values,  cash  flows,  or  foreign currencies.  If the hedged exposure is a fair
value  exposure,  the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognized in
earnings  in  the  period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on
the  hedged  item attributable to the risk being hedged.  If the hedged exposure
is  a  cash  flow  exposure,  the  effective  portion of the gain or loss on the
derivative  instrument  is  reported  initially  as  a  component  of  other
comprehensive  income  (outside  earnings)  and  subsequently  reclassified into
earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings.  Any amounts excluded
from the assessment of hedge effectiveness as well as the ineffective portion of
the  gain  or  loss is reported in earnings immediately.  Accounting for foreign
currency  hedges  is  similar  to  the  accounting  for fair value and cash flow
hedges.  If  the derivative instrument is not designated as a hedge, the gain or
loss  is  recognized  in  earnings  in  the  period  of  change.

     The  Company  has not determined the impact that Statement 133 will have on
its  financial  statements  and  believes  that  such  determination will not be
meaningful  until  closer  to  the  date  of  initial  adoption.

     Year  2000

     The Company conducted a number of reviews of its information systems during
fiscal  1998  and  fiscal  1999,  to  identify  all  system upgrades required to
facilitate  the  growth  in  business activity. As a consequence of these review
procedures,  internal  application  systems  have been substantially upgraded in
recent  years  along  with  a  strategic  program to replace existing accounting
systems  with  the  Oracle  Applications  Enterprise  package.  The  decision to
replace  the  Company's  existing  information systems was driven by operational
requirements although, as a consequence of the Oracle implementation and upgrade
of  other  systems, the Company expects all information systems to be fully Year
2000  compliant  by  September  1999.

     While  management expects the costs associated with Year 2000 compliance to
be  approximately  $100,000,  the  global  cost  of  implementing  the  Oracle
Application  Enterprise  package once completed is estimated to be approximately
$3,000,000.

     The  Company  has  completed  a  review  of its product lines for Year 2000
compliance  and,  as  a  result of this review, believes there is no significant
Year  2000  exposure  with  regards  to  the  Company's  products.

- -19-

     In  addition  to  risks  associated  with  the  Company's internal computer
system, the Company is potentially vulnerable to the failure of third parties to
adequately  address  their  Year  2000  issues.  ResMed  continues to assess the
readiness of key third parties by monitoring such parties' readiness statements.
Significant  third  parties  with  which  the  Company interfaces include, among
others,  customers  and  business  partners,  technology  suppliers  and service
providers  and the utility infrastructure (power, transport, telecommunications)
on  which all entities rely.  The most likely worst case scenario is that a lack
of  readiness  by  these third parties would expose the Company to the potential
for  loss,  impairment of business process and activities and general disruption
of its markets.  ResMed is in the process of obtaining assurances from its major
suppliers  that  they  are  addressing this issue and that products purchased by
ResMed  will function properly in the Year 2000.  However, there is no assurance
that  the systems of third parties on which the Company relies will be Year 2000
ready,  or  that  any  system  failure by such parties would not have a material
adverse  effect  on  the  Company.

     Beyond  the  above review procedures, the Company is in the process of, and
has  developed,  a  number  of  Year  2000  contingency plans should a Year 2000
compliance  issue  arise.  However,  there  can  be no assurance that customers,
suppliers  and  service providers on which the Company relies will resolve their
Year 2000 issues accurately, thoroughly and on schedule. Failure to complete the
Year  2000  project by December 31, 1999 could have a material adverse effect on
future  operating  results  or  financial  condition.

     Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources

     As  of  June  30,  1999  and  June  30, 1998, the Company had cash and cash
equivalents  and marketable securities available for sale of approximately $16.7
million  and  $20.7  million,  respectively.  The  Company's  working  capital
approximated $32.5 million and $32.8 million, respectively, at June 30, 1999 and
1998.  The marginal decline in working capital balances primarily reflects funds
used  for construction of the Company's new manufacturing facility.  Beyond this
expenditure,  working  capital  balances  increased  due  to  increases in trade
receivables  and  inventories  partially offset by increases in accrued expenses
and  income  taxes  payable.

     The  Company  has  financed its operations and capital expenditures through
cash  generated  from  operations and, to a much lesser extent, through sales of
common  stock.  During  the  fiscal  years  ended  June  30,  1999 and 1998, the
Company's  operations  generated  cash  of  approximately $18.2 million and $6.8
million,  respectively,  primarily  as  a  result  of continued increases in net
revenues,  offset  in  part  by  increases in accounts receivable, inventory and
prepayments.  Given  $9.9  million expended on the new production facility, cash
and  cash  equivalents  and marketable securities available for sale declined to
$16.7 million at June 30, 1999 from $20.7 million at June 30, 1998, a decline of
$4.0  million.  During fiscal 1999 and 1998, approximately $2.1 million and $1.0
million  of  cash  was  received  upon  exercise  of  common  stock  options.

     The  Company's  investing  activities (excluding the purchases and sales of
marketable  securities)  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  June  30, 1999 and 1998
aggregated  $24.5  million  and $12.8 million, respectively. The majority of the
1999 activities were for the construction of the new production facility and the
purchase  of  production  tooling and equipment.  To a lesser extent the Company
also purchased office furniture, research and development equipment and incurred
costs  associated  with  implementation  of its new Oracle applications computer
system.  As  a  result  the  Company's  June  30, 1999 balance sheet reflects an
increase  in  net property plant and equipment to approximately $29.3 million at
June 30, 1999, from $11.1 million at June 30, 1998, an increase of approximately
$18.2  million.  The  Company  anticipates spending approximately a further $1.0
million  for  the  ongoing implementation of its Oracle computer system over the
next  twelve  months.  These  payments  are to be funded through cash flows from
operations  and  existing  cash  resources.

- -20-

     The  results  of  the  Company's  international  operations are affected by
changes  in  exchange  rates  between currencies.  Changes in exchange rates may
negatively  affect  the  Company's  consolidated  net  revenue  and gross profit
margins  from  international operations.  The Company has a substantial exposure
to  fluctuations  in the Australian dollar with respect to its manufacturing and
research  activities which is managed through foreign currency option contracts.

     In  May  1993, the Australian Federal Government agreed to lend the Company
up  to  $870,000 over a six year term. Such loan bears no interest for the first
three years and bears interest at a rate of 3.8% thereafter until maturity.  The
outstanding  principal  balance  of  the  loan  was  repaid  during fiscal 1999,
$227,000  remained  outstanding  at  June  30,  1998.

     The Company expects to satisfy all of its short-term liquidity requirements
through  a  combination  of  cash  on  hand  and cash generated from operations.

     Foreign  Currency  Market  Risk

     The  Company's  functional  currency  is the US dollar although the Company
transacts  business  in  various  foreign currencies including a number of major
European  currencies  as  well  as  the  Australian  dollar.  The  Company  has
significant  foreign currency exposure through both its Australian manufacturing
activities  and  international  sales  operations.

     The  Company  has  established  a  foreign  currency  hedging program using
purchased  currency  options  to  hedge  foreign-currency-denominated  financial
assets,  liabilities  and  manufacturing  expenditure.  The goal of this hedging
program  is  to  economically  guarantee  or  lock  in the exchange rates on the
Company's  foreign  currency  exposures  denominated  in  the  Deutschmark  and
Australian  dollar.  Under this program, increases or decreases in the Company's
foreign-currency-denominated financial assets, liabilities, and firm commitments
are  partially  offset  by  gains  and  losses  on  the  hedging  instruments.

     The  Company  does  not  use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or
purchased  currency  options  for  trading  purposes.



- -21-

     Forward-Looking  Statements

     From  time  to  time,  the  Company  may publish forward-looking statements
relating  to  such  matters  as  anticipated  financial  performance,  business
prospects,  technological  developments,  new products, research and development
activities,  patent  and  other  litigation  and  similar  matters.  There are a
variety  of factors that could cause the Company's actual results and experience
to  differ  materially  from  the  anticipated  results  or  other  expectations
expressed  in  the  Company's  forward-looking  statements.  The  risks  and
uncertainties  that  may  affect  the Company's business, financial condition or
results  of  operations  include  the  following:

     The  market  for  products  designed  to  treat  sleep disordered breathing
related respiratory conditions is characterized by frequent product improvements
and  evolving  technology.  The  development  of  new  or innovative products by
others  or  the  discovery  of  alternative treatments for such conditions could
result  in  the  Company's  products  becoming obsolete or noncompetitive, which
would  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the Company's business, financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.

     The  market  for  the  Company's  products is also highly competitive.  The
failure  of  the Company to meet the prices offered by its competitors, or offer
products  which  either contain features similar to or more desirable than those
products  offered  by  its  competitors  or  which  are perceived as reliable by
consumers  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on the business, financial
condition  and  results  of  operations  of  the Company.  Most of the Company's
competitors  have  greater  financial,  research,  manufacturing  and  marketing
resources than the Company.  In addition, some of the Company's competitors sell
additional  lines of products, and therefore can bundle products to offer higher
discounts,  or  offer  rebates or other incentive programs to gain a competitive
advantage.  The  Company's  competitors  may  also  employ  litigation to gain a
competitive  advantage.  The  Company's inability to compete effectively against
existing  or  future  competitors  would  have  a material adverse effect on the
Company's  business,  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

     The  Company's  operating  results have, from time to time, fluctuated on a
quarterly basis and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future.  These
fluctuations  may  result  from  the  absence  of  a  backlog  of orders for the
Company's  products,  the  introduction  of  new  products by the Company or its
competitors,  the  geographic mix of product sales, the success of the Company's
marketing  efforts  in new regions, changes in third-party reimbursement, timing
of regulatory action, timing of order by distributors, expenditures incurred for
research and development, competitive pricing in different regions, seasonality,
the  cost  and  effect  of  promotional and marketing programs and the effect of
foreign currency transaction gains or losses, among other factors,  In addition,
the  Company's  results  of operations could be adversely affected by changes in
tax  laws in the various countries in which the Company conducts its operations.

     The  Company's  success  is  dependent  upon  the  ability of the Company's
customers  to  obtain  adequate  reimbursement  from  third-party  payors  for
purchasing the Company's products.  Third-party payors may deny reimbursement if
they  determine  that  the prescribed device has not received appropriate United
States  Food  and  Drug  Administration ("FDA") or other governmental regulatory
clearances,  is  not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as
determined  by  the  payor,  or  is  experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate.
Third-party  payors  are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical
products and services.  The cost containment measures that health care providers
are  instituting  could  have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to sell
its  products  and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
financial  condition and results of operations.  In some markets, such as Spain,
France and Germany, government reimbursement is currently available for purchase
or  rental  of  the  Company's  products,  subject  to constraints such as price
controls or unit sales limitations.  In Australia and some other foreign markets
there  is  currently  limited  or  no reimbursement for devices that treat sleep
disordered  breathing  related  respiratory  conditions.
- -22-

     A  substantial portion of the Company's net revenue is generated from sales
outside  North  America.  The  Company  expects that such sales will continue to
account  for  a significant portion of the Company's net revenues in the future.
The  Company's  sales  outside  of North America are subject to certain inherent
risks  of  global  operations, including fluctuations in currency exchange rate,
tariffs,  import licenses, trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies and
foreign  medical  device manufacturing regulations.  The Company has had foreign
currency  transaction gains and losses in recent periods.  A significant fall in
the  value  of the United States dollar against certain international currencies
could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the Company's business, financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.

     Other factors which could potentially have a material adverse effect on the
Company's  business,  results  of operations or financial conditions include the
costs  and  other  effects  of  legal  and administrative cases and proceedings,
settlements  and  investigations,  claims  and  changes  in  those  items,  and
developments  or  assertions  by or against the Company relating to intellectual
property  rights  and  intellectual  property  licenses.

     The  information  contained  in  this  section  is  not  intended  to be an
exhaustive  description of the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company's
business  or  in  its strategic plans.  Please see Item 1 "Business" and Item 3-
"Legal  Proceedings.".

Item  8     Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data
            -------------------------------------------------------------

a)     Index  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements



b)     Supplementary  Data

     Quarterly  Financial  Information  (unaudited)

     The  quarterly  results  for  the  years  ended  June 30, 1999 and 1998 are
summarized  below:






Item  9     Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants on Accounting and
            --------------------------------------------------------------------
Financial  Disclosure
     ----------------

     None

- -23-

                                    PART III

Item  10     Directors  and  Executive  Officers  of  the  Registrant
             --------------------------------------------------------

     Incorporated  by  reference  to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  8,  1999  meeting  of  stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June  30,  1999.

Item  11     Executive  Compensation
             -----------------------

     Incorporated  by  reference  to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  8,  1999  meeting  of  stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June  30,  1999.

Item  12     Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners and Management
             -------------------------------------------------------------------

     Incorporated  by  reference  to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  8,  1999  meeting  of  stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June  30,  1999.

Item  13     Certain  Relationships  and  Related  Transactions
             --------------------------------------------------

     Dr.  Colin  Sullivan,  a  member  of  the Company's Medical Advisory Board,
provides  consulting  services to the Company pursuant to a Consulting Agreement
that  terminates  on  December  31, 2000 (subject to extension for an additional
five-year  term)  for  which  he receives annual payments of $186,000 per annum.
The  Company  also  reimburses  Dr.  Sullivan  for his out-of-pocket expenses in
performing such consulting services. The Company has also agreed to pay $130,000
to  Dr.  Sullivan  for  a  period  of 24 months following the termination of his
consulting  relationship  with the Company.  Total payments to Dr. Sullivan were
$186,000,  $278,000  and  $353,000 for the Company's fiscal years ended June 30,
1999,  1998  and  1997,  respectively.

- -24-

                                     PART IV

Item  14     Exhibits,  Consolidated Financial Statements, Schedule, and Reports
             -------------------------------------------------------------------
on  Form  8-K
- -------------

a)     The  following  documents  are  filed  as  part  of  this  report:

1.1     Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Schedule.

     The  consolidated  financial statements and schedule of the Company and its
consolidated  subsidiaries are set forth in the "Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements"  under  Item  8  of  this  report.

3.     Exhibits.  The  following  exhibits  are  filed as a part of this report:

3.1    Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*
3.2    By-laws  of  Registrant*
4.1    Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*
4.2    Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997**
10.1   1995  Stock  Option  Plan*
10.2   1997  Equity  Participation  Plan***
10.3   Licensing Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed Limited
       dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*
10.4   Consulting  Agreement  between  Colin  Sullivan  and  ResMed  Limited
       effective  from  1  January  1998****
10.5   Loan  Agreement  between  the  Australian  Trade  Commission and ResMed
       Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*
10.6   Lease  for  10121  Carroll  Canyon  Road, San Diego 92131-1109, USA****
11.1   Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earning  per  Share
21.1   Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1   Independent  Auditors'  Report  and  Consent  and  Report  on  Schedule
27.1   Financial  Data  Schedule

*     Incorporated  by  reference  to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
      Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.
**    Incorporated  by reference from the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K (File
      No.  0-26038).
***   Incorporated  by  reference  from  the Registrant's 1997 Proxy Statement
      (File  No.  0-26038).
****  Incorporated  by  reference  from  the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K
      dated  Jun  30,  1998  (File  No.  0-26038)

b)     Report  on  Form  8-K

     None

- -25-

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc.:

We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ResMed Inc. and
subsidiaries  as  of  June  30,  1999  and  1998,  and  the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in  the  three  year  period  ended June 30, 1999.  These consolidated financial
statements  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements  based  on  our  audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant estimates made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a  reasonable  basis  for  our opinion.

In  our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the financial position of ResMed Inc. and
subsidiaries  as  of June 30, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations
and  their  cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended June
30,  1999,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles.




/s/  KPMG  LLP
KPMG  LLP
San  Diego,  California
August  6,  1999

- -F1-



- -F2-



- -F3-



- -F4-



- -F5-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

1.     ORGANIZATION  AND  BASIS  OF  PRESENTATION

     ResMed  Inc.  (the Company), is a Delaware corporation formed in March 1994
as  a  holding  company  for  ResMed  Holdings Ltd. (RHL), a company resident in
Australia.  ResMed  designs, manufactures and markets devices for the evaluation
and  treatment of sleep disordered breathing, primarily obstructive sleep apnea.
The  Company's  corporate  offices  are  based in San Diego, California with its
principal  manufacturing operation located in Australia.  Other distribution and
sales  sites  are  located  in  the United States, United Kingdom, Singapore and
Europe.

2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES

     (a)     Basis  of  Consolidation:

          The  consolidated  financial  statements  include  the accounts of the
Company  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries.  All  significant  intercompany
transactions  and  balances  have  been  eliminated  in  consolidation.

     (b)     Revenue  Recognition:

          Revenue on product sales is recorded at the time of shipment.  Royalty
revenue  from  license  agreements  is  recorded  when  earned.  Service revenue
received  in  advance  from  service  contracts  is  initially  capitalized  and
progressively  recognized  as  revenue  over  the  life of the service contract.
Revenue  from  sale of marketing or distribution rights is initially capitalized
and progressively recognized as revenue over the period of expected benefits but
not  exceeding  three  years.

     (c)     Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents:

          Cash  equivalents  include  certificates of deposit, commercial paper,
and  other  highly liquid investments stated at cost, which approximates market.
Investments  with  original  maturities  of 90 days or less are considered to be
cash  equivalents  for  purposes  of  the consolidated statements of cash flows.

     (d)     Inventories:

          Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined principally by
the  first-in,  first-out  method,  or  net  realizable  value.

     (e)     Property,  Plant  and  Equipment:

          Property,  plant  and  equipment  is  recorded  at cost.  Depreciation
expense  is  computed  using  the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives  of  the  assets,  generally  two to ten years.  Assets held under capital
leases  are  recorded at the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease
payments  or  the  fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease.
Amortization expense is computed using the straight-line method over the shorter
of  the estimated useful lives of the assets or the period of the related lease.
Straight-line and accelerated methods of depreciation are used for tax purposes.
Maintenance  and  repairs  are  charged  to  expense  as  incurred.

- -F6-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (f)     Patents:

          The  registration  costs for new patents are capitalized and amortized
over  the  estimated  useful  life  of the patent, generally five years.  In the
event  of  a  patent  being  superseded,  the  unamortized costs are written off
immediately.

     (g)     Goodwill:

          Goodwill  arising  from  business  acquisitions  is  amortized  on  a
straight-line  basis  over  periods ranging from three to 15 years.  The Company
carries  goodwill  at cost net of accumulated amortization.  The Company reviews
its  goodwill  carrying  value  when events indicate that an impairment may have
occurred  in  goodwill.  If,  based  on  the undiscounted cash flows, management
determines  goodwill  is  not  recoverable,  goodwill  is  written  down  to its
discounted  cash  flow  value  and  the  amortization  period  is  re-assessed.

          During  fiscal  1999  the  Company paid $2,024,000 as a final deferred
goodwill  payment  on  the  1996  acquisition  of  its  German  distributor.

          Amortization  expense  of goodwill was $633,000, $483,000 and $349,000
for  the  years  ended  June  30,  1999,  1998  and  1997,  respectively.

     (h)     Government  Grants:

          Government grants revenue is recognized when earned.  Grants have been
obtained  by  the  Company from the Australian Federal Government to support the
continued  development  of  the  Company's  proprietary positive airway pressure
technology  and  to  assist  development  of  export  markets.  Grants have been
recognized  in the amount of $833,000, $611,000 and $316,000 for the years ended
June  30,  1999,  1998  and  1997,  respectively.

     (i)     Foreign  Currency:

     The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  Company's  non-U.S.
subsidiaries  are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Assets  and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional currencies are
other  than  the  U.S.  dollar  are  translated  at year end exchange rates, and
revenue  and  expense  transactions are translated at average exchange rates for
the  year.  Cumulative  translation  adjustments  are  recognized  as  part  of
"Comprehensive  Income",  as  described  in  Note  15,  and  are  included  in
"Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet until
such  time  as the subsidiary is sold or substantially or completely liquidated.
Gains  and  losses  on  transactions,  denominated  in other than the functional
currency  of  the  entity,  are  reflected  in  operations.

     (j)     Research  and  Development:

          All  research  and  development  costs  are  expensed  in  the  period
incurred.

- -F7-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (k)     Earnings  Per  Share:

     During  the  year  ended  June  30,  1998, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 128, "Earnings per Share" (Statement 128).
As  required by Statement 128, all prior period information has been restated to
conform to the provisions of Statement 128.  The weighted average shares used to
calculate  basic  earnings per share were 14,708,000, 14,500,000, and 14,378,000
for  the years ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The difference
between  basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share is attributable
to  the impact of outstanding stock options during the periods presented.  Stock
options  had  the  effect  of  increasing  the  number  of  shares  used  in the
calculation  (by  application  of the treasury stock method) by 826,000, 522,000
and  256,000  for  the  years  ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     (l)     Financial  Instruments:

     The  carrying  value  of  financial  instruments,  such as of cash and cash
equivalents,  marketable  securities  - available for sale, accounts receivable,
government  grants  receivable,  foreign  currency  option  contracts,  accounts
payable  and  debt  approximate  their  fair  value  because of their short term
nature.  The  Company  does  not hold or issue financial instruments for trading
purposes.

The  fair  value  of financial instruments is defined as the amount at which the
instrument  could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties.

     (m)     Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management:

     The  Company  enters  into  various  types of foreign exchange contracts in
managing  its  foreign exchange risk, including derivative financial instruments
encompassing  forward  exchange  contracts  and  foreign  currency  options.

     The  purpose  of  the  Company's  foreign currency hedging activities is to
protect  the Company from adverse exchange rate fluctuations with respect to net
cash  movements  resulting  from  the sales of products to foreign customers and
Australian  manufacturing  activities.  The Company enters into foreign currency
option  contracts to hedge anticipated sales and manufacturing costs denominated
in  principally  Australian  dollars and Deutschmarks.  The term of such foreign
currency  option  contracts  generally  do  not  exceed  three  years.

     Unrealized  gains  or losses are recognized as incurred in the Consolidated
Balance  Sheets  as  either  other  assets or other liabilities and are recorded
within  other  income,  net  on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.
Unrealized  gains  and  losses  on  currency derivatives are determined based on
dealer  quoted  prices.

     Foreign  currency option contracts have been purchased in part by the issue
of put options to counterparts.  As a result, should foreign exchange rates drop
below  a specified level, on a specific date, the Company is required to deliver
certain  funds to counterparts at contracted foreign exchange rates. At June 30,
1999  and  1998  no  put  options  issued  by  the  Company  were  outstanding.

     The  Company  is  exposed  to  credit-related  losses  in  the  event  of
non-performance  by  counterparties  to  financial  instruments, but it does not
expect  any  counterparties  to  fail to meet their obligations given their high
credit  ratings.  The  credit  exposure  of foreign exchange options at June 30,
1999  is  $1,411,000 which represents the positive fair value of options held by
the  Company.

- -F8-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (m)     Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management(continued):

     The  Company  held  foreign currency option contracts with notional amounts
totaling  $62,460,000 and $62,683,000 at June 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively to
hedge  foreign  currency items. These contracts mature at various dates prior to
April  2001.

     (n)     Income  Taxes:

          The  Company  accounts  for income taxes under the asset and liability
method.  Deferred  tax  assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences  attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial  statement
carrying  amounts  of  existing  assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected  to  apply  to  taxable  income  in  the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax
assets  and  liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period  that  includes  the  enactment  date.

     (o)     Marketable  Securities:

          Management  determines  the  appropriate  classification  of  its
investments  in  debt  and  equity  securities  at  the  time  of  purchase  and
re-evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.  Debt securities for
which  the  Company  does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity are
classified  as available for sale.  Securities available for sale are carried at
fair  value,  with  the  unrealized  gains  and  losses, net of tax, reported in
accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  (loss).

          At  June  30,  1999  and  1998,  the  Company's  investments  in  debt
securities  were  classified  on  the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as
marketable  securities-available  for  sale.  These  investments are diversified
among high credit quality securities in accordance with the Company's investment
policy.

          The amortized cost of debt securities classified as available for sale
is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity.
Such  amortization and interest are included in interest income.  Realized gains
and losses are included in other income or expense.  The cost of securities sold
is  based  on  the  specific  identification  method.

     (p)     Warranty:

          Estimated  future warranty obligations related to certain products are
provided  by charges to operations in the period in which the related revenue is
recognized.

     (q)     Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets:

          The  Company  periodically  evaluates the carrying value of long-lived
assets  to  be  held and used, including certain identifiable intangible assets,
when  events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
not be recovered.  Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison  of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected
to be generated by the asset.  If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment  to  be  recognized  is  measured by the amount by which the carrying
amount of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets.  Assets to be disposed
of  are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to
sell.

- -F9-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

3.     MARKETABLE  SECURITIES

     The  estimated  fair  value  of marketable securities available for sale at
June  30,  1999  and  1998,  was  $5,626,000  and  $5,220,000, respectively. The
estimated  fair  value  of  each investment approximates the amortized cost, and
therefore,  there are no unrealized gains or losses as of June 30, 1999 or 1998.

     Expected  maturities  may  differ  from  contractual maturities because the
issuers  of  the  securities  may  have  the right to prepay obligations without
prepayment  penalties.

4.     INVENTORIES

     Inventories  were  comprised of the following at June 30, 1999 and 1998 (in
thousands)  :



5.     PROPERTY,  PLANT  AND  EQUIPMENT,  NET

     Property,  plant  and  equipment  is comprised of the following at June 30,
1999  and  1998  (in  thousands):



- -F10-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

6.     ACCRUED  EXPENSES

     Accrued  expenses  at  June  30, 1999 and 1998 consist of the following (in
thousands):



7.     LONG-TERM  DEBT

     As  part  of  an  agreement  between  ResMed  and  the  Australian  Federal
Government  in  fiscal 1994, ResMed obtained an $870,000 loan facility which was
fully repaid during fiscal 1999. $227,000 was outstanding at June 30, 1998.  The
loan facility was unsecured and accrued interest at 3.8% per annum beginning May
3,  1996  through  April  3,  1999.  Prior to May 3, 1996, the loan was interest
free.

8.     STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

     Stock  Options

     The  Company has granted stock options to personnel, including officers and
directors  in  accordance  with  both  the  1995 Option Plan and the 1997 Equity
Participation  Plan.  These options have expiration dates of ten years from date
of  grant and vest over three years.  The Company granted these options with the
exercise  price  equal  to  the market value as determined at the date of grant.

     In August 1997 as part of the introduction of the 1997 Equity Participation
Plan,  the  Company  cancelled  21,940  options,  being  all  non-issued options
remaining  under  the  1995  Option  Plan.

     The  following  table  summarizes  option  activity;



- -F11-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

8.     STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)

     The  total  number  of  shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance upon
exercise  of options and other awards, or upon vesting of restricted or deferred
stock  awards,  under  the  1997  Plan  was initially established at 500,000 and
increases  at  the beginning of each fiscal year, commencing on July 1, 1998, by
an  amount  equal  to  4% of the outstanding Common Stock on the last day of the
preceding  fiscal  year.  The  maximum number of shares of Common Stock issuable
upon  exercise  of incentive stock options granted under the 1997 Plan, however,
cannot exceed 4,000,000.  Furthermore, the maximum number of shares which may be
subject  to  options,  rights or other awards granted under the 1997 Plan to any
individual  in  any  calendar  year  cannot  exceed  150,000.

     The  following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at  June  30,  1999.



     The  Company  applies  APB  Opinion  No. 25 in accounting for its Plan and,
accordingly,  no  compensation cost has been recognized for its stock options in
fiscal  1999,  1998  and  1997,  respectively.  Had  the  Company  determined
compensation  cost  based  on  the  fair  value  at the grant date for its stock
options  under SFAS 123, the Company's net income would have been reduced to the
pro  forma  amounts  indicated  below:



     The  fair  value  of  each  stock option grant was estimated on the date of
grant  using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model  with  the  following
assumptions:  weighted average risk-free interest rates of 5.8% for fiscal 1999,
1998  and  1997,  respectively; no dividend yield; expected lives of four years;
and  volatility  of 55% for 1999, 34% for 1998 and 62.7% for 1997, respectively.

     Pro  forma net income reflects only options granted after 1994.  Therefore,
the  full  impact  of calculating compensation cost for stock options under SFAS
123 is not reflected in the pro forma net income amounts presented above because
compensation  cost  is  reflected over the options vesting period of 3 years and
compensation  cost for options granted prior to, and not in connection with, the
Company's  initial  public  offering  on  June  2,  1995  are  not  considered.

- -F12-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

8.     STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)

Preferred  Stock

     In  April  1997 the board of directors authorized 2,000,000 shares of $0.01
par  value  preferred  stock.  No such shares were issued or outstanding at June
30,  1999.

     Stock  Purchase  Rights

     In  April  1997,  the  Company  implemented a plan to protect stockholders'
rights in the event of a proposed takeover of the Company.  Under the plan, each
share  of  the  Company's outstanding common stock carries one right to purchase
Series  A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Right").  The Right enables
the holder, under certain circumstances, to purchase common stock of the Company
or  of the acquiring person at a substantially discounted price ten days after a
person  or group publicly announces it has acquired or has tendered an offer for
15%  or  more  of  the  Company's  outstanding  common  stock.  The  Rights  are
redeemable  at  $0.01  per  Right  and  expire  in  2007.

     Common  Stock

     The 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders approved a two-for-one split of the
Company's  common  stock,  effective November 6, 1998.  Stockholders' Equity has
been  restated  to  give  retroactive  recognition  to  the  stock  split  by
reclassifying  from additional paid-in capital to common stock, the par value of
the  additional  shares  as  a  result  of  the  stock  split.

9.     OTHER,  NET

     Other,  net  is  comprised of the following at June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997
(in  thousands):



     In  March  1998,  the Company granted to a third party licenses to three of
the  Company's  patents for a non refundable payment of $1,250,000.  The license
agreement  will  allow  the  third  party  to manufacture and distribute certain
products  featuring the Company's patented technology in the US homecare market.
Additionally,  the  Company  will  earn  royalties  on  products  manufactured.

10.     INCOME  TAXES

     Income  before  income  taxes  for  the years ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and
1997,  was  taxed  under  the  following  jurisdictions  (in  thousands):



- -F13-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998
10.     INCOME  TAXES  (CONTINUED)

     The  provision  for  income  taxes  is  presented  below  (in  thousands):





     The  tax  effects  of  temporary  differences that give rise to significant
portions  of  the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are comprised
of  the  following  at  June  30,  1999  and  1998  (in  thousands):



- -F14-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

10.     INCOME  TAXES  (CONTINUED)



     The  valuation  allowance at June 30, 1999 and 1998, primarily relates to a
provision  for  uncertainty  as  to  the  utilization  of  net  operating  loss
carryforwards.  The  net  change  in  the valuation allowance was an increase of
$48,000  for  the  year  ended  June  30,  1999,  in  comparison to a decline of
$635,000,  and  an  increase  of  $475,000 for the years ended June 30, 1998 and
1997,  respectively.  The  measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities at
June  30 of each year, reflect foreign currency translation adjustments, changes
in  enacted  tax  rates  and  changes in temporary differences.  Income taxes in
1999,  1998  and  1997  were  reduced by $Nil, $22,000 and $26,000, respectively
through  the  utilization  of  net  operating  loss  carryforwards.

     At June 30, 1999, ResMed has exhausted its net operating loss carryforwards
for  U.S.  federal  income  tax  purposes.  The net operating loss carryforwards
relate  to  Singapore,  Malaysia  and  New  Zealand.

11.     EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLANS

     ResMed contributes to a number of employee retirement plans for the benefit
of  its  employees.  These  plans  are  detailed  as  follows:

     Australia

ResMed  contributes  to  defined  contribution  pension  plans for each employee
resident  in  Australia.  All  Australian  employees  after serving a qualifying
period,  are entitled to benefits on retirement, disability or death.  Employees
may  contribute  additional funds to the plans.  ResMed contributes to the plans
at  the  rate  of 7% of the salaries of all Australian employees.  Total Company
contributions to the plans for the years ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were
$457,000,  $362,000  and  $318,000,  respectively.

United  Kingdom

During  fiscal  1998,  ResMed  established  a defined contribution plan for each
permanent  United  Kingdom employee.  All employees, after serving a three month
qualifying  period,  are entitled to benefit on retirement, disability or death.
Employees  may  contribute  additional funds to the plan.  ResMed contributes to
the plans at the rate of 3% of the salaries.  Total Company contributions to the
plan  were $8,000, $5,000 and $4,000 in fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997 respectively.

- -F15-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

11.     EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLANS  (CONTINUED)

United  States

The  Company  sponsors  a  defined  contribution  pension  plan  available  to
substantially  all  domestic  employees.  Company contributions to this plan are
based  on  a percentage of employee contributions to a maximum of 3% of employee
salaries.  The cost of this plan to the Company was $96,000, $54,000 and $39,000
in  fiscal  1999,  1998  and  1997  respectively.

12.     SEGMENT  INFORMATION

     ResMed  operates  solely  in  the  sleep disordered breathing sector of the
respiratory  medicine  industry.  The Company therefore believes that, given the
single  market  focus of its operations and the inter dependence of its products
that  ResMed  operates  as  a  single  operating  segment.  The Company assesses
performance  and  allocates resources on the basis of a single operating entity.

     Financial information by geographic area for the years ended June 30, 1999,
1998  and  1997,  is  summarized  below  (in  thousands):



- -F16-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

12.     SEGMENT  INFORMATION  (CONTINUED)

     Net  revenues  from  external  customers  is  based  on the location of the
customer.  Long  lived  assets  of geographic areas are those assets used in the
Company's  operations  in  each geographical area and excludes patents, deferred
tax  assets  and  goodwill.

13.     RELATED  PARTY  TRANSACTIONS

     For  the  years ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997, consulting service fees
in  the  amount  of  $186,000,  $278,000  and  $353,000,  were paid to Dr. Colin
Sullivan,  a  shareholder.  Dr.  Sullivan  provides  consulting  services to the
Company  pursuant to a consulting agreement that terminates on December 31, 2000
(subject  to  extension  for an additional five year term) for which he receives
annual  payments  of $186,000.  The Company also reimburses Dr. Sullivan for his
out-of-pocket  expenses  in  performing  such  consulting  services.

     The Company has also agreed to pay to Dr. Sullivan $130,000 for a period of
24  months  following  the  termination  of his consulting relationship with the
Company  in  exchange  for  his agreement not to compete with the Company during
this  period.

14.     COMMITMENTS

     The  Company  leases  buildings,  motor vehicles and office equipment under
operating  leases.  Rental charges for these items are expensed as incurred.  At
June  30, 1999 the Company had the following future minimum lease payments under
non  cancelable  operating  leases.



     Rent  expenses  under  operating  leases for the years ended June 30, 1999,
1998  and 1997 were approximately $789,000, $607,000 and $585,000, respectively.

- -F17-

                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 1999 AND 1998

15.     COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME

     As  of  July 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income", which established standards
for  the reporting and display of comprehensive income and its components in the
financial  statements.  The  only component of comprehensive income that impacts
the  Company  is  foreign  currency  translation  adjustments.  The  net  gain
associated with foreign currency translation adjustments for the year ended June
30,  1999  was  $2.3 million compared to losses of $6.1 million and $2.1 million
for  the  years ended June 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company does not
provide for US income taxes on foreign currency translation adjustments since it
does  not  provide  for  such  taxes  on  undistributed  earnings  of  foreign
subsidiaries.  Accumulated  other comprehensive income at June 30, 1999 and June
30,  1998  consisted  solely  of  foreign  currency  translation adjustments and
represent  unrealized  losses  of  $5.4  million and $7.7 million, respectively.

16.     LEGAL  ACTIONS

The  Company  is currently engaged in litigation relating to the enforcement and
defense  of  certain  of  its  patents.

In  January  1995,  the  Company filed a complaint in the United States District
Court  for the Southern District of California seeking monetary damages from and
injunctive  relief  against Respironics for alleged infringement of three ResMed
patents.  In  February  1995, Respironics filed a complaint in the United States
District  Court  for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania against the Company
seeking  a  declaratory  judgment  that  Respironics does not infringe claims of
these patents and that the Company's patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The
two actions were combined and are proceeding in the United States District Court
for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania.  In June 1996, the Company filed an
additional  complaint  against  Respironics  for infringement of a fourth ResMed
patent, and that complaint was consolidated with the earlier action.  As of this
date,  Respironics  has  brought  three  partial  summary  judgment  motions for
non-infringement  of  the  ResMed  patents;  the  Court  has  granted two of the
motions,  and  the  third is currently awaiting judicial action.  It is ResMed's
intention  to  appeal the summary judgment rulings after a final judgment in the
consolidated  litigation  has  been  entered  in the District Court proceedings.

In  May  1995,  Respironics  and its Australian distributor filed a Statement of
Claim  against  the  Company  and Dr. Farrell in the Federal Court of Australia,
alleging  that  the Company engaged in unfair trade practices.  The Statement of
Claim asserts damage claims for lost profits on sales in the aggregate amount of
approximately  $1,000,000.  While  the  Company  intends  to defend this action,
there  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  Company will be successful or that the
Company  will  not  be  required  to make significant payments to the claimants.
Furthermore,  the Company expects to incur ongoing legal costs in defending this
action,  as  well  as  in  the  continuing  litigation  of  its  patent  cases.

- -F18-


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934,  the  Registrant  has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

DATED  September  13,  1999     ResMed  Inc.

     By:         /S/  PETER  C  FARRELL
                 ------------------------------
                 Peter  C.  Farrell,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer
                 (Principal  Executive  Officer)


     By:        /S/  ADRIAN  M  SMITH
                ----------------------------
                Adrian  M.  Smith,  Chief  Financial  Officer
                (Principal  Financial  Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been  signed  below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in  the  capacities  and  on  the  dates  indicated.




- -26-

          Schedule  II
          ------------





- -27-


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX



3.1     Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*
3.2     By-laws  of  Registrant*
4.1     Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*
4.2     Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997**
10.1    1995  Stock  Option  Plan*
10.2    1997  Equity  Participation  Plan***
10.3    Licensing Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed Limited
        dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*
10.4    Consulting  Agreement  between  Colin  Sullivan  and  ResMed  Limited
        effective  from  1  January  1998****
10.5    Loan  Agreement  between  the  Australian  Trade  Commission and ResMed
        Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*
10.6    Lease  for  10121  Carroll  Canyon  Road, San Diego 92131-1109, USA****
11.1    Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earning  per  Share
21.1    Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1    Independent  Auditors'  Report  and  Consent  and  Report  on  Schedule
27.1    Financial  Data  Schedule

*     Incorporated  by  reference  to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.
**     Incorporated  by  reference from the registrants Report on Form 8-K (File
No.  0-26038).
***     Incorporated  by  reference  from  the Registrant's 1997 Proxy Statement
(File  No.  0-26038).
****     Incorporated  by  reference  from  the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K
dated  Jun  30,  1998  (File  No.  0-26038)




