
10-K




                                UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C 20549
                              _________________

                                  FORM 10-K
                              _________________

            (X)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-26038

                                 RESMED INC.
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)

     DELAWARE                                        98-0152841
     (State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S.  Employer
     incorporation  or  organization)          Identification  No.)

                          10121 CARROLL CANYON ROAD
                          SAN DIEGO  CA  92131-1109
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                   (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 619 689 2400
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:

                             TITLE OF EACH CLASS:

                        Common Stock, $.004 Par Value
                      Rights to Purchase Series A Junior
                        Participating Preferred Stock

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required  to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant  was  required  to  file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
filing  requirements  for  the  past  90  days.

     Yes              X          No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulations  S-K  (S  229.405 of this Chapter) is not contained herein and
will  not  be  contained  to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy  or  information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the
Form  10-K  or  any  amendment  to  this  Form  10-K(          ).

The  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting stock held by non-affiliates of
Registrant as of September 8, 1998, computed by reference to the closing sale
price of such stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market, was approximately $289,026,265
(All  directors  and  executive  officers  of  Registrant  are  considered
affiliates.)

At  September  8, 1998, Registrant had 7,326,873 shares of Common 
Stock, $.004 par  value,  issued  and  outstanding.

Portions  of  Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its November 6, 1998
meeting  of  stockholders  are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
report.


 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDES FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS,
    WHICH ARE TYPICALLY IDENTIFIED BY THE WORDS "ANTICIPATES", "BELIEVES",
 "EXPECTS", "INTENDS", "FORECASTS", "PLANS", "FUTURE", "STRATEGY", OR WORDS OF
 SIMILAR IMPORT.  VARIOUS IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO
 DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE EXPRESSED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE
    IDENTIFIED BELOW IN PART I, ITEM 3 AND PART II, ITEM 7 OF THIS REPORT.

                                    PART I

Item  1.          Business

     General

ResMed  is  a  leading  designer,  manufacturer  and  distributor  of  medical
equipment  for treating and diagnosing sleep disordered breathing ("SDB"). SDB
includes  sleep  apnea  and  related  respiratory  conditions.    The  Company
currently  sells  a comprehensive range of diagnostic and treatment devices in
over  40  countries  through  a  combination  of  fully owned subsidiaries and
independent  distributors.

When  ResMed  was  formed  in  1989,  its prime purpose was to commercialize a
device  for  treating  obstructive  sleep  apnea (OSA). Developed by Professor
Colin  Sullivan  of the University of Sydney, nasal continuous positive airway
pressure  (CPAP)  was  the  first  successful  noninvasive  treatment  of OSA.

Since 1989, ResMed has broadened its focus to cover sleep disordered breathing
in  all  its  manifestations.  Operations  have  expanded  rapidly through the
introduction of a number of highly innovative product lines. As a consequence,
the  Company has achieved a compound sales growth rate of 79% over the period.
This is well in excess of the market growth rate.  ResMed believes its success
is due to a continuing focus on sleep disordered breathing and the development
of  technology  for  treating  its  unwanted  medical  consequences.


     Corporate  History

     ResMed  Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation,  was formed in March 1994 as the
ultimate  holding  company  for  its  Australian,  European  and United States
operating  subsidiaries.    On  June  1, 1995 the Company completed an initial
public offering of common stock and on June 2, 1995 the Company's common stock
commenced  trading  on  the  NASDAQ  Stock Market.  Its Australian subsidiary,
ResMed Holdings Limited ("RHL"), was originally organized in 1989 by Dr. Peter
Farrell  to  acquire  from  Baxter  Center  for  Medical  Research Pty Limited
("Baxter"),  the  rights  to  certain  technology relating to nasal Continuous
Positive  Airway Pressure ("CPAP") treatment as well as Baxter's existing CPAP
device business.  Baxter had sold CPAP devices in Australia since 1988, having
acquired  the  rights to the technology in 1987 from Dr. Colin Sullivan of the
University  of  Sydney, who invented nasal CPAP for the treatment of OSA.  The
Company  and  its  subsidiaries,  since  1989, have specialized in the design,
manufacture  and marketing of patented nasal CPAP and variable positive airway
pressure  ("VPAP(Registered  Trademark)")  equipment  for  the  diagnosis  and
treatment  of  sleep  disordered  breathing,  primarily  OSA.

          The Company acquired the distribution businesses of Dieter W Priess
Medtechnik,  Premium  Medical SARL and Innovmedics Pte Ltd, its German, French
and  Singaporean distributors, on February 7, 1996, June 12, 1996 and November
1,  1997,  respectively.

     Obstructive  Sleep  Apnea

     OSA  is  a  breathing  disorder  in  which  an  individual  experiences a
temporary collapse of the upper airway during sleep.  This restricts breathing
and severely disrupts the individual's sleep.  Sleep is a complex neurological
process  that  includes  two distinct states: rapid eye movement ("REM") sleep
and  non-rapid  eye  movement  ("non-REM")  sleep.   REM sleep, which is about
20-25%  of  total  sleep  in adults, is characterized by a high level of brain
activity, bursts of rapid eye movement, increased heart and respiration rates,
and  paralysis  of many muscles.  Non-REM sleep is subdivided into four stages
that  generally  parallel  sleep depth: stage 1 is the lightest and stage 4 is
the  deepest.

- -2-


     The  upper  airway  has  no  rigid  support  and  is  held open by active
contraction  of  upper  airway muscles.  Normally, during REM sleep and deeper
levels  of  non-REM sleep, upper airway muscles relax and the airway narrows. 
Individuals  with  narrow upper airways or poor muscle tone are prone to upper
airway  closure  during  sleep  (an  "apnea"),  resulting  in  an inability to
breathe,  or  near  closure (an "hypopnea") which causes snoring and breathing
difficulties.    These  breathing irregularities result in a lowering of blood
oxygen  concentration,  until  the  brain  reacts  to  the  lack  of oxygen or
increased  carbon  dioxide  and  signals  the body to respond.  Typically, the
individual  subconsciously  arouses  from sleep, causing the throat muscles to
contract,  thus opening the airway.  After a few gasping breaths, blood oxygen
levels  increase  and the individual can resume a deeper sleep until the cycle
repeats  itself.    The cycle of complete or partial upper airway closure with
subconscious  arousal  to  lighter  levels of sleep can be repeated as many as
several  hundred  times  during six to eight hours of sleep.  Sufferers of OSA
typically  experience  ten  or  more  such  cycles per hour.  These awakenings
greatly  impair  the quality of sleep, although the individual is not normally
aware  of  these  disruptions.

     Sleep  fragmentation and the loss of the deeper levels of sleep caused by
OSA  can  lead  to  excessive  daytime  sleepiness, reduced cognitive function
(including  memory  loss  and  lack  of  concentration)  and irritability. OSA
sufferers  also  may  experience an increase in heart rate and an elevation of
blood  pressure  during  the  cycle  of  apneas.  OSA has been associated with
employment difficulties, marital discord, impotence and other adverse effects.
 Patients  with  OSA have been shown to have impaired daytime performance in a
variety  of  cognitive functions including problem solving, response speed and
visual  motor  coordination.    Certain  studies  have linked OSA to increased
occurrences of traffic and workplace accidents.  Several reports indicate that
the  oxygen  desaturation,  increased  heart  rate and elevated blood pressure
caused  by  OSA  may  be  associated  with  increased  risk  of cardiovascular
morbidity  and  mortality  due  to  angina,  stroke  and  heart  attack.

     The  Market

     In  its  "Wake  Up  America"  report  to  Congress  in 1993, the National
Commission on Sleep Disorders Research estimated that approximately 40 million
individuals  in  the  United States suffer from chronic disorders of sleep and
wakefulness,  such as sleep apnea, insomnia and narcolepsy.  According to this
report, sleep apnea is the most common sleep disorder, affecting approximately
20  million  individuals  in  the  United States.  Nearly 6.5 million of these
persons over the age of 30 experience moderate to severe forms of sleep apnea.
 However,  there  is a general lack of awareness of OSA among both the medical
community  and the general public, which has led to a corresponding failure to
diagnose  the  disorder.    It is estimated that less than 3% of those persons
afflicted  by  OSA  know the cause of their fatigue or other symptoms.  Health
care  professionals  are often unable to diagnose OSA because they are unaware
that  such  non-specific  symptoms  as  fatigue,  snoring and irritability are
characteristic  of  OSA.

     While  OSA has been diagnosed in a broad cross-section of the population,
it  is  predominant  among  middle-aged  men  and  those who are obese, smoke,
consume alcohol in excess or use muscle-relaxing drugs.  In addition, patients
who are being treated for certain other conditions, including those undergoing
dialysis treatment or suffering from diabetes, may be medically predisposed to
OSA.

- -3-


     Generally,  an  individual  seeking  treatment for the symptoms of OSA is
referred  by  a general practitioner to a specialist, such as a pulmonologist,
neurologist  or  psychiatrist  for  further  evaluation.  The diagnosis of OSA
typically  requires  monitoring  the  patient  during  sleep at either a sleep
clinic  or  the  patient's  home.    During  overnight  testing,  respiratory
parameters  and sleep patterns are monitored along with other vital signs such
as blood pressure, heart rate and blood oxygen levels. These tests allow sleep
clinicians  to  detect  any  sleep  disturbances  such as apneas, hypopneas or
subconscious  awakenings.

     The  Company  estimates  that  there  are currently more than 1,800 sleep
clinics  in  the  United States, a substantial portion of which are affiliated
with  hospitals.  Sleep clinics generally range in size from one to six beds. 
The  number of sleep clinics has expanded significantly from approximately 100
such  facilities  in  1985.  The Company believes that despite the increase in
sleep  clinics,  testing facilities currently remain inadequate to address the
large  population  of  undiagnosed  OSA  sufferers.

     Existing  Therapies

     Prior  to  1981,  the  primary  treatment  for  OSA  was a tracheotomy, a
surgical procedure to cut a hole in the patient's windpipe to create a channel
for  airflow.  Most  recently,  surgery  has  involved  either
uvulopalatopharyngoplasty ("UPPP"), in which surgery is performed on the upper
airway  to  remove excess tissue and to streamline the shape of the airway, or
mandibular  advancement,  in which the lower jaw is moved forward to widen the
patient's airway.  UPPP alone has a poor success rate; however, when performed
in  conjunction  with  mandibular advancement, a greater success rate has been
claimed.    This combined procedure, performed by highly specialized surgeons,
is  expensive  and  involves  prolonged  and  often  painful recovery periods.

     Nasal  CPAP  was  first  used as a treatment for OSA in 1980 by Dr. Colin
Sullivan,  the Chairman of the Company's Medical Advisory Board.  CPAP systems
were  commercialized  for  treatment  of  OSA  in the United States in the mid
1980's.    Today,  use  of  nasal  positive  airway  pressure  is  generally
acknowledged  as  the  most  effective and least invasive therapy for managing
OSA.  The  Company  estimates  that  during  fiscal  1998,  CPAP treatment was
prescribed  for  over  100,000  new  patients  in  the  United  States.

     During nasal CPAP treatment, a patient sleeps with a nasal mask connected
to  a  small  portable  air  flow  generator  that  delivers  room  air  at  a
predetermined  positive  pressure.   The patient breathes in air from the flow
generator  and  breathes  out through an exhaust port in the mask.  Continuous
air  pressure  applied  in  this manner acts as a pneumatic splint to keep the
upper airway open and unobstructed.  Upon diagnosis of OSA and the decision to
prescribe  CPAP treatment for an OSA sufferer, the physician must determine an
appropriate  pressure  setting  for  the CPAP device.  This pressure titration
(adjustment)  procedure typically occurs in the sleep clinic while the patient
sleeps using the CPAP device, and a technician manually increases the pressure
until  sleeping  and  breathing  are  normalized.   After determination of the
proper therapeutic pressure, the patient is prescribed a nasal CPAP device set
to  that  pressure  for  home  use.

     CPAP  is  not a cure, but a therapy for managing OSA, and therefore, must
be  used  on  a  nightly  basis for life.  Patient compliance has been a major
factor  in  the  efficacy  of CPAP treatment.  Early generations of CPAP units
provided  limited  patient  comfort  and  convenience.    Patients experienced
soreness  from  the  repeated  use  of  nasal masks and had difficulty falling
asleep  with  the  CPAP device operating at the prescribed pressure.  Over the
past  few years, product innovations to improve patient comfort and compliance
have been developed. These include more comfortable mask systems, delay timers
which  gradually  raise  air pressure allowing the patient to fall asleep more
easily,  and  bi-level  flow generators, including VPAP systems, which provide
different  air  pressures  for  inhalation  and  exhalation.

- -4-


     Business  Strategy

     The  Company believes that the SDB market will increase in the future due
to  a  number  of  factors  including the increased awareness of OSA, improved
understanding  of  the  role of OSA in cardiac treatment and related disorders
and an increase in home based treatment and diagnosis.  The Company's strategy
for  the  expansion  of  its business operations consists of the following key
elements.

     Continue  Product  Development and Innovation.  The Company believes that
it  is  a  leading   innovator  in  nasal CPAP and bi-level technology for the
treatment  of  sleep  disordered  breathing  including  OSA and that continued
product development and innovation will be a key factor in its success.  Since
its founding, the Company has introduced product advancements and improvements
designed  to  increase patient comfort and encourage compliance, such as delay
timers,  heated  humidifiers,  and pliable Bubble Masks(Registered Trademark).
The  Company  is  currently  developing  a  range  of  automatic CPAP devices,
including  further  developments  of  its existing range of AutoSet(Registered
Trademark)  products, that are designed to continually adjust CPAP pressure to
meet  individual patients' changing needs and to eliminate the need for manual
pressure  titration.

     Expand and Deepen Geographic Presence.  The Company currently markets its
products  in  over 40 countries through a network of independent distributors,
the  Company's  direct  sales  force  and manufacturers' representatives.  The
Company  actively  markets  its  products  to  sleep clinics, home health care
dealers  and  managed care organizations.  The Company intends to increase its
sales  and  marketing  efforts in its current markets, particularly Europe and
the  United  States, as well as to continue expansion into new countries.  The
Company recently signed a distribution agreement with Invacare Corp., pursuant
to  which  Invacare Corp. has agreed to act as a distributor of certain of the
Company's  products  in  the  United  States.

     Increase  Public  and Clinical Awareness.  The Company intends to promote
awareness of the prevalence of, and treatment alternatives for, SDB with three
main  groups:  (1) the population with predisposition to SDB; (2) primary care
physicians  and  other  specialists,  such  as  cardiologists,  neurologists,
pulmonologists and anesthesiologists; and (3) special interest groups, such as
sleep  disorder  support  groups.    The  Company  has sponsored international
symposia  on  different  clinical effects of SDB, including cardiovascular and
cerebrovascular  implications  of  SDB.    As  well as educating the attending
specialist  physicians,  each  conference  has  been published on a CD-ROM for
distribution  to  interested  clinicians.

     Expand  into  New  Markets.    The  Company is working with physicians to
explore  new  medical  applications for nasal CPAP, including the treatment of
post-operative  surgery  patients  and  pediatric  patients, such as premature
babies  and  infants  at  risk  of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome.  In 1998, the
Company  sponsored  an international symposium focused on noninvasive positive
pressure  ventilation  for  lung  disorders.    The  Company received a 510(k)
clearance  from  the  FDA in June 1998 to market the Company's VPAP(Registered
Trademark)  devices  for  ventilatory  assistance.    It  has  recently  been
demonstrated  that  patients  with  chronic  obstructive pulmonary disease and
other  lung diseases can benefit from positive pressure ventilation by devices
similar  to the Company's VPAP(Registered Trademark)  devices.  In August 1998
the  Company  received  FDA clearance to market a VPAP product for ventilatory
assistance  in  the  hospital critical care market.  The Company has commenced
marketing  appropriate  devices  for  there  application.

- -5-


     Products

     Currently,  ResMed  produces  nasal  CPAP, VPAP(Registered Trademark) and
AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  systems  for  the  diagnosis,  titration  and
treatment  of  SDB. These are  flow generator  systems  which deliver positive
airway  pressure through a small nasal mask. The flow of air acts like an "air
splint"  to  keep  the  patient's  upper airway open and prevent apneas. These
apneas occur when the muscles that normally hold the airway open during sleep,
relax  too  much  and  close  the  airway  off.  AutoSet(Registered Trademark)
systems  are  based  on  a proprietary technology that can also be used in the
diagnosis  of  OSA.

     ResMed  also  manufactures air delivery systems that include nasal masks,
tubing  and  headgear  to  connect  the  flow  generator  to the  patient.  In
addition,  a  growing range of sleep laboratory products and other accessories
which  improve  patient  comfort,  convenience  and  compliance  are marketed.

     CPAP  and  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)

     Introduced  in  July  1995, the SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) V range of
flow generators is now the Company's main CPAP flow generator product. Each of
the  four  models  in  the range is small and compact and comes with different
features  to  suit  different  patient  needs.

     ResMed  also  manufacturers  Variable  Positive  Airways  Pressure
(VPAP(Registered  Trademark))  units which have two preset pressures: a higher
pressure when  the patient breathes in and a  lower pressure when the  patient
breathes  out.  The  lower pressure makes  treatment more  comfortable,
particularly  for patients who need high pressure levels, or for patients with
impaired  breathing  ability.

     There  are  primarily  three  models in the  VPAP(Registered  Trademark) 
range: the SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) VPAP(Registered Trademark)  II,  the
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark) Comfort and the SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark)
VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  II ST. Released from March 1996, these units have
gained  a  reputation  for  delivering comfortable treatment. This is due to a
unique feature called IPAP max which assists in the triggering between the two
pressures.  In  June  1998,  LCD  screens  were  added to all three models for
convenience.  In  the  same  month ResMed received FDA clearance to market the
VPAP(Registered  Trademark)    II  ST-A in the USA for ventilatory assistance.

     CPAP  and  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)  units are sold to the end user at
prices  which vary from approximately $800 to $3,000, depending primarily upon
the  model,  features required and country of sale.  Flow generators accounted
for  approximately  66%,  67%  and 68% of the Company's net revenues in fiscal
1998,  1997  and  1996  respectively.

     AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  systems  for  managing  OSA

     ResMed  markets  devices  incorporating its innovative AutoSet(Registered
Trademark) technology for diagnosis, titration and treatment in sleep clinics,
hospitals  and  patients'  homes. Released in January 1998, AutoSet(Registered
Trademark)  Clinical  II is the clinical device allowing real-time observation
and  review  by the clinician of respiratory parameters during a sleep study. 
AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  Clinical  II can be used to determine the CPAP
pressure  required  by  a  patient  (titration) and assist in the diagnosis of
obstructive sleep apnea. Released in July 1998, AutoSet(Registered Trademark) 
Portable  II  Plus  can be used in sleep clinics, hospitals or patient's homes
and  has  additional  features  to  monitor  extra  respiratory  data.

     ResMed  is  also  developing  the  patented AutoSet(Registered Trademark)
technology  for  a  range of CPAP devices for home use in the treatment of SDB
conditions.  While  conventional  CPAP units operate at a fixed CPAP pressure;
actual  pressure required for effective treatment of OSA can vary depending on
factors  such  as  weight  change, alcohol consumption, sedative use, stage of
sleep  and  body  position.   Due for release in late 1998, AutoSet(Registered
Trademark)  T is designed to continually detect the level of airway resistance
and  adjust the air pressure to the required level throughout the night.  This
results  in greater patient comfort and reduced pressure related side effects.

- -6-




- -7-

Innovative  Mask  Systems

     ResMed's  mask  system  consists  of a nasal cushion which sits on a mask
frame  held  in  place  by  headgear.    The Bubble Mask(Registered Trademark)
includes  a  patented  Bubble Cushion(Registered Trademark) which represents a
significant  advance  in  patient  comfort.    Introduced  in 1991, the Bubble
Cushion(Registered Trademark) is made from a thin, soft silicone membrane. The
membrane  readily conforms to the patient's facial contours to form a seal and
minimize  air leakage.  When inflated by air pressure from the flow generator,
the  cushion  "floats"  on  the  face.  It  complies  with  body  movement and
eliminates  the  need  for  tight  headgear  to  hold  the  cushion  in place.

     Typically, patients replace masks or mask cushions every 12 to 18 months,
at  a  cost  of  approximately  $100-$200  depending  upon  the model.  Bubble
Masks(Registered  Trademark)  are available in a variety of sizes and are sold
independently  of  the  Company's flow  generators  either  as  replacement
products  or  with other  manufacturers'  flow generators.  The  Company  also
manufactures  the  Bubble  Mask(Registered  Trademark)    on  an OEM basis for
Nellcor  Puritan-Bennett,  one  of  its  competitors.

     In June 1997, ResMed released the Mirage(Trademark) mask system which has
taken a large  share  of the mask market. Smaller and  lighter than many other
types of mask, the  Mirage(Trademark)  features a specially contoured  cushion
that  fits a wider range  of  nose  shapes.  The  standard  Mirage(Trademark)
size  fits most  people so  that  clinicians  can fit  masks  faster.  The
Mirage(Trademark) also allows inventory costs to  be reduced as it  eliminates
the need to carry a  large range of types and sizes of mask.  Furthermore, the
Mirage(Trademark) mask works very well for both conventional CPAP and bi-level
treatment.

     In  July  1995,  the  Company  introduced a new Modular Mask frame with a
T-bar  which  sits  on  the forehead to provide stability and prevent sideways
movement of the frame.  The mask has a choice of four sizes of forehead arm to
ensure optimum positioning of the cushion and reduce leaks.  Headgear includes
the ResCap(Registered Trademark) II which has five points of attachment to the
mask  frame to provide an even distribution of pressure and secure fit. A nose
and mouth mask is also available for patients who experience significant mouth
leaks  when  using  a  nasal  mask.

     Mask  systems, accessories and other products accounted for approximately
34%,  33% and 32% of the Company's net revenues in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.

     Accessories  and  Other  Products

     In  order  to enhance patient comfort, convenience and compliance, ResMed
markets  a  variety of other products and accessories.  These products include
humidifiers, such as the SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark)  HumidAire(Trademark),
which  connect  directly  with  the  CPAP  and  VPAP(Registered  Trademark) 
flow  generators to  humidify  and, if desired, heat the air delivered  to the
patient.  Their  use prevents  the drying  of nasal  passages which  can cause
discomfort. Other  optional  accessories  include  carry  bags  and replacement
filters.

     ResMed  also  manufactures  products  that  are  used  primarily in sleep
clinics  and  hospitals to monitor key respiratory parameters.  These products
consist  of CPAP devices together, with additional diagnostic tools, to assist
clinicians  in the diagnosis of OSA and establishment of therapeutic pressures
necessary  to  treat  OSA  suffers.

     The  Universal  Control Unit (UCU) was first introduced in October 1995. 
It  was  superseded in June 1997 by the UCU2.  The UCU2 is a monitoring device
used  by  clinicians  to  measure and adjust the pressure being delivered by a
ResMed  CPAP or VPAP(Registered Trademark) II device to a patient undergoing a
sleep  study.    It allows the clinician to conduct this review and adjustment
from  a  remote  location  within  a  sleep  lab.

- -8-

     The  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  Compliance  Application  (SCAN  ),
introduced  in  October  1995,  and  superseded  in  June  1997  by SCAN  2.0,
comprises  the  software  necessary  to  download  compliance  data  from flow
generators with recording capabilities.  Clinicians can use SCAN  2.0 to track
how often and how long a patient is undergoing treatment. In connection with a
modem, SCAN  2.0 allows compliance data to be downloaded from a flow generator
in  a  patient's  home  direct  to  the  sleep  laboratory.

     Product  Development

     The Company is committed to an ongoing program of product advancement and
development.    Currently,  product  development  efforts  are  focused  on
AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  systems,  improved CPAP, VPAP and mask systems
and  manufacturing  cost-reduction  programs.

     The  Company  consults  with physicians at major sleep centers throughout
the  world  to identify technological trends in the treatment of SDB.  Some of
these physicians currently serve on the Company's Medical Advisory Board.  New
product  ideas  are  also  identified by the Company's marketing staff, direct
sales  force,  network  of  distributors,  manufacturers'  representatives and
patients.  Typically,  new  product  development  is  then  performed  by  the
Company's  internal development staff often in collaboration with Dr. Sullivan
and  his  colleagues  at  the  University of Sydney Medical School, as well as
other research  groups  around  the  world such as Brown, Edinburgh, Essen and
Harvard Medical Schools.

     In the three fiscal years ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company
expended  $4,994,000, $3,807,000 and $2,841,000, respectively, on research and
development.

     Sales  and  Marketing

     The  Company  currently markets its products in over 40 countries using a
network  of  distributors,  independent manufacturers' representatives and its
direct  sales force.  The Company attempts to tailor its marketing approach to
each  national market, based on regional awareness of SDB as a health problem,
physician  referral  patterns,  consumer  preferences  and local reimbursement
policies.

     North  America.  In the United States, the Company's marketing activities
are  conducted  through  a  field  sales organization comprised of 23 regional
territory  representatives,  program  development  specialists  and diagnostic
system  specialists,  plus  two  regional  sales  directors and 27 independent
manufacturers'  representatives  organizations.  The United States field sales
organization  markets  and  sells products to more than 4,500 home health care
dealer  branch  locations  throughout  the  United  States.

     The  Company  also  promotes  and  markets its products directly to sleep
clinics.    Patients  who are diagnosed with OSA and prescribed CPAP treatment
are  typically  referred  by the diagnosing sleep clinic to a home health care
dealer to fill the prescription.  The home health care dealer, in consultation
with  the  referring  physician,  will  assist  the  patient  in selecting the
equipment,  fit  the  patient  with  the  appropriate  mask  and  set the flow
generator  pressure  to  the  prescribed  level.   In the United States, sales
employees  and  manufacturers'  subrepresentatives  are  managed  by  the  two
regional sales managers and the Company's Vice President - US Sales.  The Vice
President  -  US Marketing, responsible for marketing in the United States and
Canada,  is  also  based  in the Company's office in San Diego.  The Company's
Canadian  sales  are conducted through a Canadian distributor.  Sales in North
America accounted for 52%, 43% and 49% of the Company's total net revenues for
the  fiscal  years  ended  June  30,  1998,  1997  and  1996,  respectively.

- -9-

     Europe.    The  Company  markets  its  products  in  most  major European
countries.  ResMed has fully owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany
and  France  and  uses  independent distributors to sell its products in other
areas  of Europe.  These distributors have been selected in each country based
on  their  knowledge  of  respiratory  medicine as well as a commitment to SDB
therapy.    In  each  country  in  which the Company has a subsidiary, a local
senior  manager  is  responsible  for direct national sales.  In addition, the
Company  uses  a  consultant  in  Switzerland to assist in sales and marketing
efforts  for  selected  European  countries.

     The  Group's  Executive Vice President is responsible for coordination of
all  European  distributors  and,  in  conjunction  with local management, the
direct  sales  activity  in Europe. Sales in Europe accounted for 35%, 44% and
36%  of  the  Company's total net revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30,
1998,  1997  and  1996,  respectively.

     Australia/Rest  of  World.    Prior  to  May  1994,  the  Company was the
exclusive  source  of nasal CPAP flow generator units in Australia as a result
of  ResMed  Limited's ownership of Dr. Sullivan's original nasal CPAP patent. 
This  patent, which covered the CPAP method of treating OSA and the device for
treatment of OSA, was challenged by the Australian distributor for Respironics
and,  in  May  1994, was revoked by an Australian appeals court in reliance on
issues specific to Australian patent law.  Such revocation permits competitors
to  market  CPAP  products  in  Australia.  Consequently, the Company's market
share  in  Australia  has  decreased  from  1995  onwards.

     Marketing in the rest of the world is the responsibility of the Executive
Vice President based in Sydney, Australia.  Sales in Australia and the rest of
the  world  accounted for 13%, 13% and 15% of the Company's total net revenues
for  the  fiscal  years  ended  June  30,  1998,  1997 and 1996, respectively.

     Manufacturing

     The  Company's  principal manufacturing facilities are located in Sydney,
Australia.    The  Company's  manufacturing  operations  consist  primarily of
assembly and testing of the Company's flow generators, masks and accessories. 
Of  the numerous raw materials, parts and components purchased for assembly of
the  Company's  therapeutic  and  diagnostic sleep disorder products, most are
off-the-shelf  items  available  from  multiple  vendors.

     The  Company's  quality  control group performs tests at various steps in
the  manufacturing  cycle  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  Company's
specifications.    The  Company  is currently in the process of constructing a
new,  approximately  120,000  square  feet  manufacturing  facility in Sydney,
Australia,  and  will  shift  its  primary manufacturing operations to the new
facility  when construction is completed.  Construction of the new facility is
expected  to  be  completed  by  early  calendar  1999.

     The  Company  generally  manufactures to its internal sales forecasts and
fills  orders  as  received.    As  a  result,  the  Company  generally has no
significant  backlog  of orders for its products.  The Company uses management
information  systems  to  integrate  its  manufacturing  planning, billing and
accounting  systems.

- -10-


     Service  and  Warranty

     The  Company  offers  one-to-two  year  limited  warranties  on  its flow
generator  products.    Warranties  on  mask systems are for 90 days.  In most
markets,  the  Company  relies  on  its  distributors  to repair the Company's
products  with  parts  supplied  by  the  Company.  In the United States, home
health  care  dealers  generally arrange shipment of products to the Company's
San  Diego  facility  for  repair.

     The  Company  has  received  returns  of  its products from the field for
various  reasons.    The  Company  believes  that  the level of returns it has
experienced  to  date  is  consistent  with  levels  typically  experienced by
manufacturers  of  similar  devices.   The Company provides for warranties and
returns  based  on  historical  data.

     Third-Party  Reimbursement

     The  cost of medical care is funded in substantial part by government and
private  insurance  programs.  Although the Company does not generally receive
payments for its products directly from these payors, the Company's success is
dependent  upon  the  ability of patients to obtain adequate reimbursement for
the Company's products.  In most markets, the Company's products are purchased
primarily  by home health care dealers, hospitals or sleep clinics, which then
invoice  third-party  payors  directly.

     In  the  United States, third-party payors include Medicare, Medicaid and
corporate health insurance plans.  These payors may deny reimbursement if they
determine  that  a  device  is  not  used  in  accordance  with cost-effective
treatment  methods,  or  is  experimental,  unnecessary  or  inappropriate.  
Third-party  payors  are  also  increasingly  challenging  prices  charged for
medical  products  and  services,  and certain private insurers have initiated
reimbursement systems designed to reduce health care costs.  The trend towards
managed  health  care and the concurrent growth of HMOs which could control or
significantly  influence the purchase of health care services and products, as
well  as  legislative  proposals  to  reform  health care, may result in lower
prices  for  the  Company's  products.

     In  some  foreign  markets, such as Spain, France and Germany, government
reimbursement  is  currently available for purchase or rental of the Company's
products subject, however, to constraints such as price controls or unit sales
limitations.    In  Australia  and  in  some  other  foreign  markets there is
currently  limited  or  no  reimbursement  for  devices  that  treat  OSA.

     Competition

     The  markets  for  the  Company's  products  are highly competitive.  The
Company  believes that the principal competitive factors in all of its markets
are  product  features,  reliability  and  price.    Reputation  and efficient
distribution  are  also  important  factors.

     The  Company competes on a market-by-market basis with various companies,
some  of  which  have greater financial, research, manufacturing and marketing
resources  than  the  Company.    In  the United States, its principal market,
Respironics,  Inc.  ("Respironics"),  DeVilbiss, a division of Sunrise Medical
Inc.,  and Nellcor Puritan Bennett, a subsidiary of Mallinckrodt, Inc. are the
primary  competitors for the Company's CPAP products.  The Company's principal
European  competitors  are  also  Respironics,  DeVilbiss  and Nellcor Puritan
Bennett,  as  well  as regional European manufacturers.  The disparity between
the  Company's resources and those of its competitors is likely to increase as
a  result  of  the  recent  trend  towards  consolidation  in  the health care
industry.    In  addition,  the  Company's  products  compete  with  surgical
procedures  and  dental appliances designed to treat OSA and other SDB related
respiratory  conditions.    The development of new or innovative procedures or
devices  by others could result in the Company's products becoming obsolete or
noncompetitive,  resulting  in  a  material  adverse  effect  on the Company's
business,  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

- -11-


     Any product developed by the Company that gains regulatory clearance will
have  to  compete for market acceptance and market share.  An important factor
in  such  competition  may be the timing of market introduction of competitive
products.   Accordingly, the relative speed with which the Company can develop
products,  complete  clinical  testing  and regulatory clearance processes and
supply  commercial  quantities of the product to the market are expected to be
important  competitive factors.  In addition, the Company's ability to compete
will continue to be dependent on the extent to which the Company is successful
in  protecting  its  patents  and  other  intellectual  property.

     Patents  and  Proprietary  Rights  and  Related  Litigation

     The  Company, through its subsidiary ResMed Limited, owns or has licensed
rights  to  10 issued United States patents (including 1 design patent) and 13
issued  foreign  patents.    In  addition,  there are 39 pending United States
patent  applications  (including  5 design patent applications) and 66 pending
foreign  patent  applications.  Some  of these patents and patent applications
relate  to  significant aspects and features of the Company's products.  These
include  United States patents relating to CPAP devices, a delay timer system,
the  Bubble  Mask(Registered Trademark), and an automated means of varying air
pressure  based  upon  a  patient's changing needs during nightly use, such as
that  employed  in  the  Company's  AutoSet(Registered  Trademark)  Device.

     None  of  the Company's patents are due to expire in the next five years,
with  the  exception  of four foreign patents which are due to expire in April
2002.  The Company believes that the expiration of these patents will not have
any  material  adverse  impact  on  the  Company's  competitive  position.

     The  Company  relies  on  a  combination  of  patents,  trade  secrets,
non-disclosure  agreements and proprietary know-how to protect its proprietary
technology  and  rights.    ResMed  Limited is pursuing an infringement action
against  one  of its competitors and is investigating possible infringement by
others.    See  Item  3-  "Legal  Proceedings."

     Additional  litigation  may  be  necessary  to attempt to enforce patents
issued  to  the  Company,  to  protect the Company's proprietary rights, or to
defend  third-party  claims  of infringement by the Company of the proprietary
rights  of  others.   Patent laws regarding the enforceability of patents vary
from  country  to  country.   Therefore, there can be no assurance that patent
issues will be uniformly resolved, or that local laws will provide the Company
with  consistent  rights  and  benefits.

     Government  Regulations

     The  Company's  products are subject to extensive regulation particularly
as  to  safety,  efficacy and adherence to FDA Quality System Regulation (QSR)
and  related  manufacturing standards.  Medical device products are subject to
rigorous  FDA  and  other governmental agency regulations in the United States
and  regulations  of  relevant foreign agencies abroad.  The FDA regulates the
introduction,  manufacture,  advertising,  labeling,  packaging,  marketing,
distribution,  and  record  keeping for such products, in order to ensure that
medical  products  distributed in the United States are safe and effective for
their  intended  use.  In addition, the FDA is authorized to establish special
controls  to  provide  reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of
most devices.  Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in import
detentions,  fines,  civil  penalties,  injunctions,  suspensions or losses of
regulatory  approvals,  recall or seizure of products, operating restrictions,
refusal  of the government to approve product export applications or allow the
Company  to  enter  into  supply  contracts,  and  criminal  prosecution.

- -12-


     The  FDA requires that a manufacturer introducing a new medical device or
a new indication for use of an existing medical device obtain either a Section
510(k)  premarket notification clearance or a premarket approval ("PMA") prior
to  it  being  introduced  into  the  market. The Company's products currently
marketed in the United States are marketed in reliance on 510(k) pre-marketing
clearances.    The  process  of obtaining a Section 510(k) clearance generally
requires  the submission of performance data and often clinical data, which in
some  cases can be extensive, to demonstrate that the device is "substantially
equivalent"  to  a  device that was on the market prior to 1976 or to a device
that  has  been  found  by  the FDA to be "substantially equivalent" to such a
pre-1976  device.    As  a  result,  FDA  approval requirements may extend the
development  process  for a considerable length of time.  In addition, in some
cases,  the  FDA may require additional review by an advisory panel, which can
further  lengthen  the  process.    The PMA process, which is reserved for new
devices  that are not substantially equivalent to any predicate device and for
high risk devices or those that are used to support or sustain human life, may
take  several  years  and requires the submission of extensive performance and
clinical  information.

     As a medical device manufacturer, the Company is subject to inspection on
a routine basis by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's QSR regulations which
impose  procedural  and  documentation  requirements  with  respect to design,
manufacturing  and  quality control activities.  The Company believes that its
design,  manufacturing and quality control procedures meet the requirements of
the  regulations.

     Sales  of  medical  devices  outside  the  United  States  are subject to
regulatory  requirements  that  vary widely from country to country.  Approval
for  sale  of  the  Company's medical devices in Europe is through the CE mark
process.    The  Company's  products  where  appropriate, are CE marked to the
European  Unions  Medical  Device  Directive.

     Employees

     As  of  June  30,  1998,  the  Company had 373 employees and 17 full time
consultants,  of  which  172  persons  were  employed  in  warehousing  and
manufacturing,  60  in research and development, 93 in sales, marketing and 65
in  administration.    Of  the  Company's  employees and consultants, 265 were
located in Australia, 62 in the United States, 56 in Europe and 7 in Singapore
and  Malaysia.

     The  Company  believes  that  the success of its business will depend, in
part,  on  its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.  None of the
Company's  employees  is  covered  by  a collective bargaining agreement.  The
Company  believes  that  its  relationship  with  its  employees  is  good.

Medical  Advisory  Board

The  Company's  international  Medical  Advisory  Board  ("MAB")  consists  of
physicians  and  scientists  specializing  in  the  field  of sleep disordered
breathing.    MAB  members  meet  as  a group twice a year with members of the
Company's  senior  management  and  members  of  its  research  and  marketing
departments  to  advise  the  Company  on  technology  trends in SDB and other
developments  in  sleep disorders medicine.  MAB members are also available to
consult  on  an  as-needed  basis  with senior management of the Company.  MAB
members  include:

Colin  Sullivan,  MD PhD FRACP, age 54 is Chairman of the MAB and the inventor
of  nasal  CPAP  for  treating  obstructive  sleep  apnea.  He is Professor of
Medicine  and  Director  of the David Read Laboratory at the Sydney University
Medical  School  as  well  as  a thoracic physician at the Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital.  In  addition,  he  is  a  Fellow of the Royal Australian College of
Physicians  and  Director  of  the  National  SIDS  Council  Pediatric  Sleep
Laboratory  at the Children's Hospital, Westmead. Dr Sullivan has continued to
contribute  to  the  Company's  innovation,  product  development and clinical
testing.    He  has  authored  over  100 papers in sleep disorders and related
respiratory  areas  and  is  on  the  editorial  board of several professional
journals.   Dr Sullivan's MD and PhD degrees are from the University of Sydney
Medical  School.

- -13-

Neil  J.  Douglas,  MD  FRCP,  age  50  is  Professor of Respiratory and Sleep
Medicine,  University  of  Edinburgh,  an Honorary Consultant Physician, Royal
Infirmary of Edinburgh and Director of the Scottish National Sleep Laboratory.
He  is  Dean of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh and Vice Chairman
of  the  UK  Royal  Colleges  Committee  of  CME Directors and a member of the
Working Party on Sleep Apnea of the Royal College of Physicians of London.  He
is  a  past  Chairman  of  the British Sleep Society and past Secretary of the
British Thoracic Society. He has published over 200 papers on breathing during
sleep.    Dr  Douglas  has  an  MD  from  the  University  of  Edinburgh.

Helmut  Teschler,  MD,  age  45  is  Associate Professor and Head of the Sleep
Laboratory,  Ruhrlandklinik,  Department  of  Pneumology, University of Essen,
Germany.  He  is  a  Fellow  of  each  of  the  following Associations: German
Pneumology  Society,  American  Thoracic Society, European Respiratory Society
and  American Sleep Disorders Association. He is an internationally recognized
researcher  in  sleep  disorders  medicine.    Dr  Teschler  is  a graduate in
Engineering  from  the  University of Siegen, Germany and obtained his MD from
the  University  of  Marburg,  Germany.

J.  Woodrow  Weiss,  MD,  age 49 is Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard
Medical  School,  as  well  as Physician Director, Pulmonary-Medical Intensive
Care  Unit  and  Director  of  the  Section of Sleep Disorders Medicine in the
Pulmonary and Critical Care Division at Beth Israel Hospital, Boston. Dr Weiss
is  an  internationally recognized researcher in sleep disorders medicine.  Dr
Weiss  was  an  intern  and  resident  at  the  University  of California, San
Francisco  and  completed  research  fellowships at both Dartmouth and Harvard
Medical  Schools.    He  holds  a  BA from Harvard and an MD from Case Western
Reserve  School  of  Medicine.

B.  Tucker  Woodson,  MD  FACS, age 41 is an otolaryngologist and an Associate
Professor  of  Surgery  at the Medical College of Wisconsin. He is a Fellow of
the  American  Academy  of  Otolaryngology  -  Head  and  Neck Surgery and did
surgical training with Dr. Fujita, the pioneer of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty to
treat  obstructive  sleep  apnea.  He  has  a primary research interest in the
surgical  management of sleep apnea and evaluation of the upper airway.  He is
a  strong  proponent of nasal CPAP and teaches extensively to other surgeons. 
Dr Woodson did his surgical training in otolaryngology at Detroit's Henry Ford
Hospital  and  holds  a BA from Washington University, St Louis and an MD from
the  University  of  Missouri,  Columbia.

Nicholas  Hill,  MD,  age  48 is Professor of Medicine at Brown University and
Director of Critical Care Services at Rhode Island Hospital. He is a Fellow of
the  American College of Chest Physicians.  His main research interests are in
the  acute  and  chronic  applications  of  non-invasive  positive  pressure
ventilation  for  treating  lung  disease.    He  completed his internship and
residency  at  Tufts  University  School  of  Medicine  and  Boston  Veterans
Administration Medical Center.  Dr Hill holds a BA from Harvard and an MD from
Dartmouth  Medical  School.

Michael  Coppola,  MD,  age  45 is a leading pulmonary critical care and sleep
disorders  physician in private practice in Massachusetts.  He is an attending
physician at Baystate Medical Center and Mercy Hospital in Springfield, MA and
a  Fellow  of the American College of Chest Physicians.  He is chairman of the
Massachusetts  Sleep  Breathing  Disorders  Society  and a Board Member of the
American  Lung Association, Western Massachusetts.  He holds a BS from Fordham
University,  NY,  an  MD  from  Georgetown  University,  Washington  D.C.  and
completed  his  residency  and  fellowship in pulmonary medicine at Georgetown
University  Hospital.

Ex  officio:  Terence  M Davidson, MD, FACS, age 53 is Professor of Surgery in
the  Division  of  Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery at the University of
California,  San  Diego,  School of Medicine.  He is Section Chief of Head and
Neck  Surgery  at  the  VA  San Diego Healthcare System and Associate Dean for
Continuing Medical Education at UCSD.  He is also Chief of the Sleep Clinic at
the  Center  for  Health Care, Rancho Bernardo where he has incorporated sleep
apnea  diagnosis  and treatment into an otolaryngology practice.  He completed
his  residency  in  surgery  at  UCLA  and residency in otolaryngology at UCSD
School  of  Medicine.  Dr Davidson holds a BA from University of California at
Riverside  and  an  MD  from  UCLA.

- -14-


Members  of  the  Medical  Advisory Board, other than Dr. Sullivan, receive an
honorarium as well as reimbursement of traveling costs and other out-of-pocket
expenses  incurred  in  attending  any  conferences as may be requested by the
Company.

Item  2          Properties

ResMed's  principal  executive  offices,  consisting  of  approximately 22,000
square  feet,  are  located in San Diego, California.  The Company leases this
property pursuant to an eight year lease which is scheduled to expire in 2005.
Primary  manufacturing  operations  are  currently at two locations in Sydney,
Australia.    The leases for both these sites are scheduled to expire in 1999.

A  new  manufacturing  facility  is  being  constructed  in Sydney and due for
completion in the first quarter of calendar 1999. Approximately 120,000 square
feet in size, it will house both existing Australian manufacturing facilities.
ResMed believes  that once the  new  manufacturing facility is completed, its 
facilities will  be  adequate  to  serve  its  operational  needs for at least
two years.

Sales  and  warehousing  facilities  are  also  leased  in  Oxford,  England,
Moenchengladbach,  Germany,  Lyon,  France  and  Singapore.

Item  3.          Legal  Proceedings

     The  following discussion contains forward-looking statements relating to
the  Company's  legal  proceedings.    Litigation is inherently uncertain and,
accordingly,  actual  results  could differ materially from those expressed in
the  forward-looking  statements.

     The  Company  is  currently  engaged  in  significant  patent  litigation
relating  to  the  enforcement and defense of certain of its patents. In 1992,
the  Company's original Australian patent, which was due to expire in 1998 and
covered  the CPAP method of treating, and the device for treatment of OSA, was
challenged  by the Australian distributor for Respironics and in May 1994, was
revoked  by  an  Australian  appeals  court  in reliance on issues specific to
Australian patent law.  The Company on May 29, 1997 paid $246,000 as total and
final  settlement  of  costs  associated  with  the  litigation.

     In January 1995, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in
the  United  States against Respironics.  The complaint seeks monetary damages
from,  and  injunctive  relief  against Respironics resulting from its alleged
infringement of three of the Company's patents.  In February 1995, Respironics
filed  a  complaint  against  the  Company seeking a declaratory judgment that
Respironics  does  not infringe claims of these patents and that the Company's
patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The two actions have been combined and
are proceeding in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.

In  June  1996, the Company initiated a further action in Pennsylvania against
Respironics regarding alleged infringement of a fourth patent, granted June 4,
1996,  related  to  the  Company's delay timer feature.  This action was again
consolidated  with  the  ongoing  case such that the two remaining actions are
proceeding  together.   On July 1, 1997 the Court granted Respironics a motion
for partial summary judgment holding that Respironics' accused products do not
infringe one of the four patents in suit.  Subsequently, the court undertook a
de  novo  review  of  the motion and on January 27, 1998 confirmed the initial
ruling.   It is ResMed's intention to seek reversal of the ruling by appeal to
the  United  States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the Federal Circuit once a final
judgement  has  been  rendered.    On June 18, 1998, a Magistrate Judge made a
Report  and Recommendation that the Court make an order granting Respironics a
further motion for partial summary judgement holding that Respironics' accused
products do not infringe another of the four patents in suit.  That Report and
Recommendation  is  awaiting  a decision by the Judge in the proceedings as to
whether  to  make  an order granting the motion for partial summary judgement.

- -15-

     On  May  17,  1995,  Respironics  and  its Australian distributor filed a
Statement of Claim against ResMed Limited and Dr. Peter Farrell in the Federal
Court  of  Australia.    This  action relates to ResMed Limited exercising its
rights  to  the  Australian  original  CPAP  patent,  which was revoked by the
Federal  Court  of  Australia  in  1994.   The Statement of Claim alleges that
ResMed  Limited engaged in unfair trade practices, including the misuse of the
power  afforded  by  its  Australian  patent  and  dominant market position in
violation  of  the  Australian  Trade  Practices  Act.  The Statement of Claim
asserts  damage  claims  in  the aggregate amount of approximately $1,000,000,
constituting  lost  profit on sales.  While the Company intends to defend this
action,  there  can  be  no  assurance  that the Company will be successful in
defending  such  action  or  that  the  Company  will  not be required to make
significant  payments  to  the claimants.  Furthermore, the Company expects to
incur  ongoing  legal  costs  in  defending  such  action.

Item  4          Submission  of  Matter  to  a  Vote  of  Security  Holders

     None



                                   PART II

Item  5         Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters



     As  of  September  8,  1998,  there  were approximately 2,416 beneficial
holders  of the Company's Common Stock  The Company does not intend to declare
any  cash  dividends  in  the  foreseeable  future.

Item  6          Selected  Financial  Data

     The  following  table  summarizes certain selected consolidated financial
data  for,  and  as  of  the end of, each of the years in the five-year period
ended  June  30, 1998.  The data set forth below should be read in conjunction
with  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  related  Notes  included
elsewhere  in  this  Report.

- -16-







- -17-

Item  7       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results  of  Operations

     Management's  discussion  and analysis of financial condition and results
of  operations  should be  read in conjunction with selected  financial data
and  consolidated  financial  statements and notes, included herein.

     The Company designs, manufactures and markets equipment for the diagnosis
and  treatment of sleep disordered breathing conditions, including obstructive
sleep  apnea.    The Company's net revenues are generated from the sale of its
various  flow  generator  devices,  nasal  mask systems, accessories and other
products,  and, to a lesser extent from royalties.  The Company receives other
income  through  interest  and  certain  Australian  government  grants.

     The  Company  has  invested  significant  resources  in  research  and
development  and  product  enhancement.  Since 1989, the Company has developed
several  innovations  to  the original CPAP device to increase patient comfort
and  to  improve ease of product use. The Company has recently been developing
products  for  automated  treatment,  titration and monitoring of OSA, such as
AutoSet(Registered  Trademark).    The  Company's  research  and  development
expenses  are  subsidized  in  part  by  grants  and  tax  incentives from the
Australian  federal government.  The Company has also received grants from the
Australian  federal  government  to  support  marketing  efforts  to  increase
Australian export sales, and for incorporation of computer components into its
products.

     The  Company's  income tax rate is governed by the laws of the regions in
which  the  Company's income is recognized.  To date, a substantial portion of
the  Company's  income  has  been subject to income tax in Australia where the
statutory  rate  is 36% effective from July 1, 1995.  During fiscal 1998, 1997
and  1996,  the Company's effective tax rate has fluctuated from approximately
34%  to  approximately 31%.  These fluctuations have resulted from, and future
effective  tax  rates will depend upon, numerous factors, including the amount
of  research  and  development  expenditures  for  which a 125% Australian tax
deduction  is  available, the level of non-deductible expenses, and the use of
available  net operating loss carryforward deductions and other tax credits or
benefits  available  to  the  Company  under  applicable  tax  laws.

     Fiscal  Year  Ended June 30, 1998 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended  June 30,

     Net  Revenues.    Net  revenues increased in fiscal 1998 to $66.5 million
from  $49.2 million in fiscal 1997, an increase of $17.3 million or 35%.  This
increase  was  primarily  attributable  to  an  increase  in unit sales of the
Company's  flow  generators  and  accessories  in  America  where net revenues
increased  to  $34.3  million  from  $21.3 million and, to a lesser extent, in
Europe, where net revenues increased to $23.3 million from $21.5 million.  Net
revenues also improved due to a shift to higher-priced bi-level based products
such  as  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  VPAP(Registered Trademark)II ST and
improved  patient  mask  systems.

     Gross  Profit.    Gross  profit increased in fiscal 1998 to $43.5 million
from $28.9 million in 1997, an increase of $14.6 million or 50%.  The increase
resulted primarily from increased unit sales during fiscal 1998.  Gross profit
as  a  percentage of net revenues increased in fiscal 1998 to 65.3% from 58.7%
in  1997.    The  increase  was  primarily  due  to  improved  manufacturing
efficiencies,  increased  sales of higher margin diagnostic and bi-level units
and  a  21%  devaluation  in  the  Australian  dollar,  in which the Company's
manufacturing  activities  are  denominated.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative  Expenses.    Selling, general and
administrative  expenses increased in 1998 to $21.1 million from $16.8 million
for  1997,  an  increase  of  $4.3  million  or  26%.   As a percentage of net
revenues,  selling,  general  and  administrative expenses decreased in fiscal
1998  to 31.7% from 34.1% for fiscal 1997.  The gross increase in expenses was
due  primarily  to  an  increase  to  158  from 113 in the number of sales and
administrative  personnel  and  other  expenses related to the increase in the
Company's  sales.    In  addition, the Company incurred substantial legal fees
with  respect  to its ongoing patent action of $1,189,000 and $924,000 in 1998
and  1997,  respectively.

- -18-

     Research  and  Development  Expenses.   Research and development expenses
increased  in fiscal 1998 to $5.0 million from $3.8 million in fiscal 1997, an
increase  of  $1.2  million or 31%.  As a percentage of net revenues, research
and  development expenses in fiscal 1998 marginally declined to 7.5% from 7.7%
in  fiscal 1997.  The dollar increase in research and development expenses was
due  primarily  to  an  increase  in  research  and  development equipment and
external  consultancy  fees.

     Other  Income (loss).  Other income decreased in fiscal 1998 to a loss of
$1.3  million  from a gain of $2.8 million for fiscal 1997, a decrease of $4.1
million.   This decrease was due primarily to losses incurred in the Company's
foreign currency hedging structures as a consequence of the 21% devaluation in
the  Australian  dollar  over fiscal 1998.  Foreign currency losses for fiscal
1998  were $4.0 million compared to net foreign currency gains of $1.6 million
in  1997.

     Income  Taxes.    The Company's effective income tax rate for fiscal 1998
increased  to  approximately  34.1% from approximately 32.7% for fiscal 1997. 
This  increase  was  primarily  due  to  the  high  relative taxes incurred in
Germany.   These higher tax rates were partially offset by additional research
and  development  expenses  in Australia for which the Company received a 125%
deduction  for  tax  purposes.

     Fiscal  Year  Ended  June 30, 1997 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30,

     Net  Revenues.    Net  revenues increased in fiscal 1997 to $49.2 million
from  $34.6  million  in  fiscal 1996, an increase of $14.6 million or 42.3%. 
This  increase  was primarily attributable to an increase in unit sales of the
Company's  flow  generators  and  accessories  in  Europe  where  net revenues
increased  to  $21.5  million  from  $12.4 million and, to a lesser extent, in
North  America,  where  net  revenues  increased  to  $21.3 million from $16.8
million.   In addition, net revenues improved due to a continuing market shift
to  higher-priced  bi-level  based  products  such  as  SULLIVAN(Registered
Trademark)  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)II  ST.    This  favorable  effect  was
partially  offset  by  decreases  in  the selling prices of the Company's CPAP
products  in  the  United  States.

     Gross  Profit.    Gross  profit increased in fiscal 1997 to $28.9 million
from  $17.6  million  in  1996,  an  increase  of $11.3 million or 64.4%.  The
increase  resulted  primarily  from  increased unit sales during fiscal 1997. 
Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased in fiscal 1997 to 58.7%
from  50.8%  in  1996.    The  increase  was  primarily  due  to  a  full year
profitability  from  the  Company's German and French subsidiaries acquired in
February  and June 1996, respectively, improved manufacturing efficiencies and
increased  sales  of  higher  margin  diagnostic  and  bi-level  units.  These
improvements  were,  however, partially offset by continuing price competition
in  the  United States, where prices for the Company's products are lower than
elsewhere  in  the  world.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative  Expenses.    Selling, general and
administrative  expenses increased in 1997 to $16.8 million from $11.1 million
for  1996,  an  increase  of  $5.7  million  or 50.5%.  As a percentage of net
revenues,  selling,  general  and  administrative expenses increased in fiscal
1997  to  34.1%  from 32.2% for fiscal 1996.  The increase in expenses was due
primarily  to  an  increase  to  113  from  87  in  the  number  of  sales and
administrative  personnel  and to a limited extent additional selling expenses
arising  from  the acquisition of the Company's German distributor in February
1996,  and  other expenses related to the increase in the Company's sales.  In
addition  the  Company  incurred  substantial  legal  fees with respect to its
ongoing patent action of $924,000 and $773,000 in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     Research  and  Development  Expenses.   Research and development expenses
increased  in fiscal 1997 to $3.8 million from $2.8 million in fiscal 1996, an
increase  of  approximately  $1.0  million  or  34.0%.  As a percentage of net
revenues,  research  and development expenses in fiscal 1997 decreased to 7.7%
from  8.2%  in  fiscal  1996.  The dollar increase in research and development
expenses  was  due  primarily  to  an  increase  in  research  and development
equipment  and  external  consultancy  fees.

- -19-

     Other Income.  Other income decreased in fiscal 1997 to $2.8 million from
$3 million for fiscal 1996, a decrease of $200,000 or 6.9%.  This decrease was
due  primarily  to the write down of certain investments held by the Company. 
These  write  downs  were  partially  offset  by  foreign currency gains which
increased  to  $1.6 million from $961,000 in 1997 and 1996, respectively, as a
result  of both marking foreign currency options to market and cash deliveries
over  the  year.

     Income  Taxes.    The Company's effective income tax rate for fiscal 1997
increased  to  approximately  32.7% from approximately 31.4% for fiscal 1996. 
This  increase  was  primarily  due  to  the  high  relative taxes incurred in
Germany.   These higher tax rates were partially offset by additional research
and  development  expenses  in Australia for which the Company received a 125%
deduction  for  tax  purposes.

     Recent  Accounting  Developments

     In  June  1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 130,
"Reporting  Comprehensive Income" and SFAS 131, "Disclosures about Segments of
an  Enterprise  and  Related  Information", both effective for years beginning
after  December  15,  1997.    SFAS  130  will  require  companies  to  report
comprehensive  income  and  SFAS  131 will require companies to report segment
performance  as  it  is  used  internally.  These statements impose additional
disclosure  requirements.

     SFAS  No.  133,  "Accounting  for  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities" (SFAS 133), was issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
in  June  1998 and is effective for the Company's quarter ending September 30,
1999.    SFAS  133  standardizes  the  accounting  for derivative instruments,
including  certain  derivative instruments embedded in other contracts.  Under
the standard, entities are required to carry all derivative instruments in the
statement  of financial position at fair value.  The accounting for changes in
the  fair  value  (ie,  gains or losses) of a derivative instrument depends on
whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship
and,  if  so,  on  the  reason for holding it.  If certain conditions are met,
entities  may  elect  to  designate  a  derivative  instrument  as  a hedge of
exposures  to  changes  in fair values, cash flows, or foreign currencies.  If
the  hedged  exposure  is  a  fair  value  exposure,  the  gain or loss on the
derivative  instrument  is  recognized  in  earnings  in  the period of change
together  with  the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to
the  risk  being  hedged.  If the hedged exposure is a cash flow exposure, the
effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported
initially  as a component of other comprehensive income (outside earnings) and
subsequently  reclassified  into  earnings  when  the  forecasted  transaction
affects  earnings.    Any  amounts  excluded  from  the  assessment  of  hedge
effectiveness  as  well  as  the  ineffective  portion  of the gain or loss is
reported  in  earnings immediately.  Accounting for foreign currency hedges is
similar  to  the  accounting  for  fair  value  and  cash flow hedges.  If the
derivative  instrument  is  not  designated  as  a  hedge, the gain or loss is
recognized  in  earnings  in  the  period  of  change.

     The company has not determined the impact that Statement 133 will have on
its  financial  statements  and  believes  that such determination will not be
meaningful  until  closer  to  the  date  of  initial  adoption.

     Year  2000

     The  Company  conducted  a strategic review of its information systems in
fiscal  1997  with  a view to upgrading operations to facilitate the growth in
business  activity. As a consequence of these review procedures a decision was
made  to  replace  existing  internal  systems  with  the  Oracle Applications
Enterprise  package.    The  decision  to  replace  the  Company's  existing
information  systems  was  driven  by  operational  requirements although as a
consequence  all  information  systems  are  expected  to  be  fully Year 2000
compliant.  While  management  expects  the  costs  associated  with Year 2000
compliance  to  be approximately $100,000, the cost of implementing the Oracle
Application  Enterprise  package  is  estimated  to  be  $2,000,000.

- -20-


     In  addition,  the Company has commenced a review of its product lines to
identify  any  products  or  systems with embedded technology which may not be
Year  2000  compliant.   To date, this review has not revealed any significant
Year  2000  exposure  with  regards  to  the  Company's  products.

     The  Company  is  also conducting a review of the Year 2000 compliance of
its  vendors and customers and any Year 2000 associated issues with respect to
any  customer  or  supplier  interface  systems.   In addition, the Company is
currently analyzing all other computer related systems and equipment to ensure
Year  2000  compliance.  This review is expected to be completed during fiscal
1999 as part of the construction of the Company's new Australian manufacturing
facility.

     Beyond the above review procedures, the Company is in the process of, and
has  developed,  a  number  of  Year 2000 contingency plans should a Year 2000
compliance  issue  arise.   However, there can be no assurance that customers,
suppliers and service providers on which the Company relies will resolve their
Year  2000  issues accurately, thoroughly and on schedule. Failure to complete
the  Year  2000  project  by Year 2000 could have a material adverse effect on
future  operating  results  or  financial  condition.

     Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources

     As  of  June  30,  1998  and June 30, 1997, the Company had cash and cash
equivalents  and  marketable  securities  available  for sale of approximately
$20.7  million and $28.0 million, respectively.  The Company's working capital
approximated  $32.8  million and $34.4 million, respectively, at June 30, 1998
and  1997.    The decline in working capital balances primarily reflects funds
used  for  construction  of  the Company's new manufacturing facility.  Beyond
this expenditure, working capital balances increased due to increases in trade
receivables  and inventories partially offset by increases in accrued expenses
and  income  taxes  payable.

     The  Company has financed its operations and capital expenditures through
cash  generated from operations and, to a much lesser extent, through sales of
common stock.    During  the fiscal  years ended June 30, 1998 and  1997,  the
Company's operations  generated  cash  of  approximately $6.8 million and $9.5
million, respectively, primarily  as  a result of  continued  increases in net
revenues, offset  in part by increases  in accounts  receivable, inventory and
prepayments.  Given $4.3 million expended on the new production facility, cash
and cash equivalents and marketable  securities available for sale declined to
$20.7 million at June  30, 1998 from $28.0 million at June 30, 1997, a decline
of $7.2  million.  During fiscal 1998 and 1997, approximately $1.0 million and
$249,000  of  cash  was  received  upon  exercise  of  common  stock  options.

     The  Company's investing activities (excluding the purchases and sales of
marketable  securities)  for  the  fiscal  years  ended June 30, 1998 and 1997
aggregated  $12.8  million and $4.5 million, respectively. The majority of the
1998  activities  were for the construction of the new production facility and
the  purchase  of  production  tooling  and equipment.  To a lesser extent the
Company  also  purchased  office  furniture,  computers  and  research  and
development  equipment.  As a result the Company's June 30, 1998 balance sheet
reflects  an  increase  in  net  property plant and equipment to approximately
$11.1  million  at  June  30,  1998,  from  $4.9  million at June 30, 1997, an
increase  of  approximately  $6.2  million.

     The  results  of  the  Company's international operations are affected by
changes  in  exchange rates between currencies.  Changes in exchange rates may
negatively  affect  the  Company's  consolidated  net revenue and gross profit
margins  from  international operations.  As less than 2% of the Company's net
revenues  are  generated  in  South East Asia, the Company does not anticipate
being  significantly  impacted by the continuing Asian economic crisis, except
to the extent the crisis affects the Company's other markets.  The Company has
a  substantial  exposure to fluctuations in the Australian dollar with respect
to  its manufacturing and research activities which is managed through foreign
currency  option  contracts.

- -21-

     In  August 1997, the Company commenced construction of its new Australian
production facility.  This development is anticipated to be completed by early
calendar  1999  and  is  expected  to  be financed through either Company cash
reserves  or  by  a  sale  and leaseback transaction.  The Company anticipates
spending  approximately  $9.0  million  for  the  construction  of  its  new
manufacturing facility and computer systems over the next twelve months. These
payments are to be funded through cash flows from operations and existing cash
resources.

     In May 1993, the Australian Federal Government agreed to lend the Company
up to $870,000 over a six year term. Such loan bears no interest for the first
three  years  and  will  bear  interest  at  a  rate  of 3.8% thereafter until
maturity.    The  outstanding  principal balance of such loan was $227,000 and
$548,000  at  June  30,  1998  and  1997,  respectively.

     The  Company  expects  to  satisfy  all  of  its  short-term  liquidity
requirements  through  a  combination  of cash on hand and cash generated from
operations.

     Foreign  Currency  Market  Risk

     The  Company's  functional currency is the US dollar although the Company
transacts  business  in various foreign currencies including a number of major
European  currencies  as  well  as  the  Australian  dollar.   The Company has
significant  foreign  currency  exposure  through  both  its  Australian
manufacturing  activities  and  international  sales  operations.

     The  Company  has  established  a  foreign currency hedging program using
foreign  currency forward exchange contracts and purchased currency options to
hedge  foreign-currency-denominated  financial  assets,  liabilities  and
manufacturing  expenditure.    The  goal  of  this  hedging  program  is  to
economically  guarantee or lock in the exchange rates on the Company's foreign
currency  exposures  denominated  in  the  Deutschmark and Australian dollar. 
Under  this  program,  increases  or  decreases  in  the  Company's
foreign-currency-denominated  financial  assets,  liabilities,  and  firm
commitments  are  partially  offset  by  gains  and  losses  on  the  hedging
instruments.

     Based  on recent volatility in the Far East foreign currency markets, the
Company  has  temporarily  suspended  purchasing  of  foreign currency forward
exchange  contracts for its United States dollar, Australian dollar exposure. 
The  Company  does  not  use  foreign  currency  forward exchange contracts or
purchased  currency  options  for  trading  purposes


- -22-




     Forward-Looking  Statements

     From  time  to  time,  the Company may publish forward-looking statements
relating  to  such  matters  as  anticipated  financial  performance, business
prospects,  technological developments, new products, research and development
activities,  patent  and  other  litigation  and similar matters.  There are a
variety  of  factors  that  could  cause  the  Company's  actual  results  and
experience  to  differ  materially  from  the  anticipated  results  or  other
expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements.  The risks
and  uncertainties that may affect the Company's business, financial condition
or  results  of  operations  include  the  following:

     The  market  for  products  designed  to treat sleep disordered breathing
related  respiratory  conditions  is  characterized  by  frequent  product
improvements  and  evolving  technology.  The development of new or innovative
products  by  others  or  the  discovery  of  alternative  treatments for such
conditions  could  result  in  the  Company's  products  becoming  obsolete or
noncompetitive,  which  would  have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business,  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

     The  market  for  the Company's products is also highly competitive.  The
failure of the Company to meet the prices offered by its competitors, or offer
products which either contain features similar to or more desirable than those
products  offered  by  its  competitors  or which are perceived as reliable by
consumers  could  have  a  material  adverse effect on the business, financial
condition  and  results  of  operations of the Company.  Most of the Company's
competitors  have  greater  financial,  research,  manufacturing and marketing
resources  than  the  Company.  In addition, some of the Company's competitors
sell  additional lines of products, and therefore can bundle products to offer
higher  discounts,  or  offer  rebates  or  other incentive programs to gain a
competitive  advantage.   The Company's competitors may also employ litigation
to  gain  a  competitive  advantage.    The  Company's  inability  to  compete
effectively  against  existing  or  future  competitors  would have a material
adverse  effect  on the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations.

     The  Company's operating results have, from time to time, fluctuated on a
quarterly  basis  and  may  be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. 
These  fluctuations may result from the absence of a backlog of orders for the
Company's  products,  the  introduction  of new products by the Company or its
competitors, the geographic mix of product sales, the success of the Company's
marketing efforts in new regions, changes in third-party reimbursement, timing
of  regulatory  action, timing of order by distributors, expenditures incurred
for  research  and  development,  competitive  pricing  in  different regions,
seasonality, the cost and effect of promotional and marketing programs and the
effect  of foreign currency transaction gains or losses, among other factors, 
In  addition,  the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected
by  changes in tax laws in the various countries in which the Company conducts
its  operations.

- -23-

     The  Company's  success  is  dependent  upon the ability of the Company's
customers  to  obtain  adequate  reimbursement  from  third-party  payors  for
purchasing  the Company's products.  Third-party payors may deny reimbursement
if  they  determine  that  the  prescribed device has not received appropriate
United  States  Food  and  Drug  Administration  ("FDA") or other governmental
regulatory clearances, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment
methods  as  determined  by  the  payor,  or  is  experimental, unnecessary or
inappropriate.    Third-party  payors  are increasingly challenging the prices
charged for medical products and services.  The cost containment measures that
health  care  providers  are  instituting  could have an adverse effect on the
Company's  ability to sell its products and may have a material adverse effect
on  the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.  In
some  markets,  such as Spain, France and Germany, government reimbursement is
currently  available for purchase of rental of the Company's products, subject
to constraints such as price controls or unit sales limitations.  In Australia
and  some other foreign markets there is currently limited or no reimbursement
for  devices  that  treat  sleep  disordered  breathing  related  respiratory
conditions.

     A  substantial  portion  of  the  Company's net revenue is generated from
sales  outside  North  America.    The  Company  expects  that such sales will
continue to account for a significant portion of the Company's net revenues in
the  future.    The  Company's  sales  outside of North America are subject to
certain  inherent  risks  of  global  operations,  including  fluctuations  in
currency exchange rate, tariffs, import licenses, trade policies, domestic and
foreign  tax  policies  and foreign medical device manufacturing regulations. 
The  Company  has  had foreign currency transaction gains and losses in recent
periods.   A significant fall in the value of the United States dollar against
certain  international  currencies could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's  business,  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

     Other  factors  which could potentially have a material adverse effect on
the  Company's business, results of operations or financial conditions include
the costs and other effects of legal and administrative cases and proceedings,
settlements  and  investigations,  claims  and  changes  in  those  items, and
developments  or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual
property  rights  and  intellectual  property  licenses.

     The  information  contained  in  this  section  is  not intended to be an
exhaustive  description  of  the  risks  and  uncertainties  inherent  in  the
Company's  business  or  in its strategic plans.  Please see Item 1 "Business"
and  Item  3  "Legal  Proceedings".

Item  8          Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and Supplementary Data



b)          Supplementary  Data

     Quarterly  Financial  Information  (unaudited)



- -24-




Item  9        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountant on Accounting and
Financial  Disclosure

     None




                                   PART III

Item  10          Directors  and  Executive  Officers  of  the  Registrant

     Incorporated  by reference to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  6,  1998  meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June 30, 1998.

Item  11          Executive  Compensation

     Incorporated  by reference to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  6,  1998  meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June 30, 1998.

Item  12      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     Incorporated  by reference to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  6,  1998  meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June 30, 1998.

Item  13          Certain  Relationships  and  Related  Transactions

     Dr.  Colin  Sullivan,  a  member of the Company's Medical Advisory Board,
provides consulting services to the Company pursuant to a Consulting Agreement
that  terminates  on December 31, 2000 (subject to extension for an additional
five-year  term) for which he receives annual payments of $186,000 per annum. 
The  company  also  reimburses  Dr. Sullivan for his out-of-pocket expenses in
performing  such  consulting  services.  The  Company  has  also agreed to pay
$130,000  to  Dr. Sullivan for a period of 24 months following the termination
of  his  consulting  relationship  with  the  Company.   Total payments to Dr.
Sullivan  were  $278,000, $353,000 and $314,000 for the Company's fiscal years
ended  June  30,  1998,  1997  and  1996,  respectively.

- -25-

                                   PART IV

Item  14          Exhibits,  Consolidated Financial Statements, Schedule, and
Reports  on  Form  8-K

a)          The  following  documents  are  filed  as  part  of  this  report:

1.1          Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Schedule.

     The consolidated financial statements and schedule of the Company and its
consolidated  subsidiaries  are  set  forth  in  the  "Index  to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements"  under  Item  8  of  this  report.

3.       Exhibits.  The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report:

3.1          Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*
3.2          By-laws  of  Registrant*
4.1          Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*
4.2          Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997**
10.1         1995  Stock  Option  Plan*
10.2         1997  Equity  Participation  Plan***
10.3         Licensing  Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*
10.4         Consulting  Agreement  between Colin Sullivan and ResMed Limited
effective  from  1  January  1998
10.5        Loan Agreement between the Australian Trade Commission and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*
10.6        Lease  for  82  Waterloo  Road,  Sydney,  Australia*
10.7        Lease  for  10121 Carroll Canyon Road, San Diego 92131-1109, USA
11.1        Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earning  per  Share
16.1        Letter  regarding  change  in  Certifying  Accountant*
21.1        Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1        Consent  and  Report  on  Schedule  of  KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
27.1        Financial  Data  Schedule

*      Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.
**     Incorporated by reference from the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K
(File  No.  0-26038).
***    Incorporated by reference from the Registrant's 1997 Proxy Statement
(File  No.  0-26038).

b)          Report  on  Form  8-K

     None


- -26-



                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc.:

We  have  audited  the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ResMed Inc.
and  subsidiaries  as  of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated
statements  of  income,  stockholders'  equity, and cash flows for each of the
years  in  the  three  year  period  ended  June 30, 1998.  These consolidated
financial  statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these consolidated financial
statements  based  on  our  audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted auditing
standards.    Those  standards  require  that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also  includes  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for  our  opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present  fairly,  in  all  material respects, the financial position of ResMed
Inc.  and  subsidiaries as of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period
ended  June  30,  1998,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles.




/s/  KPMG  PEAT  MARWICK  LLP
KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
San  Diego,  California
August  14,  1998

- -F1

                                  RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



- -F2-

                               RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



- -F3-

                                                  RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES








- -F4-

                                      RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



- -F5-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

1.          ORGANIZATION  AND  BASIS  OF  PRESENTATION

         ResMed Inc. (the Company), is a Delaware corporation formed in March
1994  as  a holding company for ResMed Holdings Ltd. (RHL), a company resident
in  Australia.    RHL  designs,  manufactures  and  markets  devices  for  the
evaluation  and treatment of sleep disordered breathing, primarily obstructive
sleep  apnea.  The Company's principal manufacturing operations are located in
Australia.    Other  principal distribution and sales sites are located in the
United  States,  United  Kingdom,  and  Europe.

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES

     (a)          Basis  of  Consolidation:

          The  consolidated  financial  statements include the accounts of the
Company  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries.   All significant intercompany
transactions  and  balances  have  been  eliminated  in  consolidation.

     (b)          Revenue  Recognition:

          Revenue  on  product  sales  is  recorded  at the time of shipment. 
Royalty  revenue  from  license  agreements  is recorded when earned.  Service
revenue  received  in  advance from service contracts is initially capitalized
and progressively recognized as revenue over the life of the service contract.
 Revenue  from  sale  of  marketing  or  distribution  rights  is  initially
capitalized  and  progressively  recognized  as  revenue  over  the  period of
expected  benefits  but  not  exceeding  three  years.

     (c)          Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents:

          Cash  equivalents include certificates of deposit, commercial paper,
and other highly liquid investments stated at cost, which approximates market.
 Investments  with original maturities of 90 days or less are considered to be
cash  equivalents  for  purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows.

     (d)          Inventories:

          Inventories  are stated at the lower of cost, determined principally
by  the  first-in,  first-out  method,  or  net  realizable  value.

     (e)          Property,  Plant  and  Equipment:

          Property,  plant  and  equipment  is recorded at cost.  Depreciation
expense  is  computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives  of  the  assets, generally two to ten years.  Assets held under capital
leases are recorded at the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease
payments or the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease. 
Amortization  expense  is  computed  using  the  straight-line method over the
shorter  of  the  estimated  useful  lives  of the assets or the period of the
related lease.  Straight-line and accelerated methods of depreciation are used
for tax purposes.  Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.

- -F6-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (f)          Patents:

          The registration costs for new patents are capitalized and amortized
over  the  estimated  useful life of the patent, generally five years.  In the
event  of  a  patent  being  superseded, the unamortized costs are written off
immediately.

     (g)          Goodwill:

          Goodwill  arising  from  business  acquisitions  is  amortized  on a
straight-line  basis over periods ranging from three to 15 years.  The Company
carries  goodwill  at  cost  net  of  amortization.    The Company reviews its
goodwill  carrying  value  when  events  indicate  that an impairment may have
occurred  in  goodwill.   If, based on the undiscounted cash flows, management
determines  goodwill  is  not  recoverable,  goodwill  is  written down to its
discounted  cash  flow  value  and  the  amortization  period  is re-assessed.

          Amortization expense of goodwill was $483,000, $349,000 and $123,000
for  the  years  ended  June  30,  1998,  1997  and  1996,  respectively.

     (h)          Government  Grants:

          Government  grants  revenue  is recognized when earned.  Grants have
been obtained by the Company from the Australian Federal Government to support
the  continued  development  of  the  Company's  proprietary  positive  airway
pressure  technology and to assist development of export markets.  Grants have
been recognized in the amount of $611,000, $316,000 and $537,000 for the years
ended  June  30,  1998,  1997  and  1996,  respectively.

     (i)          Foreign  Currency:

          The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the Company's non-U.S.
subsidiaries  are  translated  into  U.S.  dollars  for  financial  reporting
purposes.    Assets  and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional
currencies  are other than the U.S. dollar are translated at year end exchange
rates;  revenue  and  expense  transactions are translated at average exchange
rates  for  the  year.    Cumulative  translation adjustments are reflected in
stockholders'  equity.   Gains and losses on transactions denominated in other
than  the  functional  currency  of  the  entity  are reflected in operations.

     (j)          Research  and  Development:

          All  research  and  development  costs  are  expensed  in the period
incurred.

     (k)          Earnings  Per  Share:

     During  the  year  ended  June 30, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share" (Statement 128). 
As  required  by Statement 128, all prior period information has been restated
to  conform  to  the provisions of Statement 128.  The weighted average shares
used  to  calculate  basic  earnings  per  share  was 7,250,000, 7,189,000 and
7,090,000 for the years ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The
difference  between basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share is
attributable  to  the  impact  of outstanding stock options during the periods
presented.    Stock  options had the effect of increasing the number of shares
used  in  the  calculation  (by  application  of the treasury stock method) by
261,000, 128,000 and 109,000 for the years ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.

- -F7-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (l)          Financial  Instruments:

     The  carrying  value  of  financial instruments, such as of cash and cash
equivalents,  marketable securities - available for sale, accounts receivable,
government  grants  receivable,  foreign  currency  option contracts, accounts
payable  and  debt  approximate  their  fair value because of their short term
nature.   The Company does not hold or issue financial instruments for trading
purposes.

The  fair value of financial instruments is defined as the amount at which the
instrument  could  be  exchanged  in  a  current  transaction  between willing
parties.

     (m)          Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management:

     The  Company  enters  into various types of foreign exchange contracts in
managing its foreign exchange risk, including derivative financial instruments
encompassing  forward  exchange  contracts  and  foreign  currency  options.

     The  purpose  of  the Company's foreign currency hedging activities is to
protect  the  Company  from adverse exchange rate fluctuations with respect to
net  cash  movements resulting from the sales of products to foreign customers
and  Australian  manufacturing  activities.    The Company enters into foreign
currency  option  contracts to hedge anticipated sales and manufacturing costs
denominated  in  principally  Australian  dollars,  Pound  Sterling  and
Deutschmarks.    The  term of such foreign exchange contracts generally do not
exceed  three  years.

     Premiums  to enter certain foreign currency options are included in other
assets  and are amortized over the period of the agreement in the consolidated
statement  of  income  against  other  (expenses)  income,  net.   Unamortized
premiums  amounted  to  $267,000, $565,000 and $302,000 at June 30, 1998, 1997
and  1996,  respectively.

     Unrealized gains or losses are recognized as incurred in the Consolidated
Balance  Sheets  as  either other assets or other liabilities and are recorded
within  other income, net on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Unrealized  gains  and  losses on currency derivatives are determined based on
dealer  quoted  prices.

     Foreign  currency  option  contracts  have  been purchased in part by the
issue  of  put  options to counterparts.  As a result, should foreign exchange
rates  drop  below  a  specified  level,  on  a  specific date, the Company is
required  to  deliver  certain  funds  to  counterparts  at contracted foreign
exchange rates. At June 30, 1998 and 1997 no put options issued by the Company
were  outstanding.

     The  Company  is  exposed  to  credit-related  losses  in  the  event  of
non-performance  by  counterparties  to financial instruments, but it does not
expect  any  counterparties to fail to meet their obligations given their high
credit  ratings.   The credit exposure of foreign exchange options at June 30,
1998  is  $775,000 which represents the positive fair value of options held by
the  Company.

- -F8-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (m)          Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management(continued):

     The  Company held foreign currency option contracts with notional amounts
totaling  $62,683,000  and $22,752,000 at June 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively
to hedge foreign currency items. These contracts mature at various dates prior
to  June  2000.

     (n)          Income  Taxes:

          The  Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability
method.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences  attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial statement
carrying  amounts  of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases.    Deferred  tax  assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax
rates  expected  to  apply  to  taxable  income  in  the  years in which those
temporary  differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on
deferred  tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
income  in  the  period  that  includes  the  enactment  date.

     (o)          Marketable  Securities:

          Management  determines  the  appropriate  classification  of  its
investments  in  debt  and  equity  securities  at  the  time  of purchase and
re-evaluates  such  determination at each balance sheet date.  Debt securities
for  which the Company does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity
are  classified  as  available  for  sale.   Securities available for sale are
carried  at  fair  value,  with  the  unrealized gains and losses, net of tax,
reported  in  a  separate  component  of  shareholders'  equity.

          At  June  30,  1998  and  1997,  the  Company's  investments in debt
securities  were  classified on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as
marketable  securities-available  for sale.  These investments are diversified
among  high  credit  quality  securities  in  accordance  with  the  Company's
investment  policy.

          The  amortized  cost  of debt securities classified as available for
sale  is  adjusted  for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to
maturity.    Such  amortization and interest are included in interest income. 
Realized  gains  and losses are included in other income or expense.  The cost
of  securities  sold  is  based  on  the  specific  identification  method.

     (p)          Warranty:

          Estimated  future  warranty  obligations related to certain products
are  provided  by  charges  to  operations  in the period in which the related
revenue  is  recognized.

     (q)          Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets:

          The  Company periodically evaluates the carrying value of long-lived
assets  to be held and used, including certain identifiable intangible assets,
when  events  and  circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may  not  be  recovered.    Recoverability  of  assets  to be held and used is
measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash
flows expected to be generated by the asset.  If such assets are considered to
be  impaired,  the  impairment  to  be recognized is measured by the amount by
which  the carrying amount of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets. 
Assets  to  be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or
fair  value  less  costs  to  sell.

- -F9-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

3.          MARKETABLE  SECURITIES

     The  estimated  fair value of marketable securities available for sale at
June  30,  1998  and  1997,  was $5,220,000 and $18,908,000, respectively. The
estimated  fair  value of each investment approximates the amortized cost, and
therefore,  there  are  no  unrealized  gains or losses as of June 30, 1998 or
1997.

     Expected  maturities  may  differ from contractual maturities because the
issuers  of  the  securities  may have the right to prepay obligations without
prepayment  penalties.

4.          INVENTORIES



5.          PROPERTY,  PLANT  AND  EQUIPMENT,  NET



In  August  1997  the  Company  entered  into  an  agreement  to  purchase for
approximately  $3.2 million, a 173,000ft2 parcel of land in close proximity to
its  Australian production facility.  It is the Company's intention to develop
the  site  as  its  Australian  Operations  center  from  fiscal 1999 onwards.

- -F10-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

6.          ACCRUED  EXPENSES



7.          LONG-TERM  DEBT

     As  part  of  an  agreement  between  ResMed  and  the Australian Federal
Government,  ResMed  obtained  an $870,000 loan facility of which $227,000 and
$548,000  were  outstanding at June 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The loan
facility  is unsecured and accrues interest at 3.8% per annum beginning May 3,
1996  through  April  3,  1999.    The  facility  is  payable  in  six monthly
installments  beginning  November 3, 1996.  Prior to May 3, 1996, the loan was
interest  free.

8.          STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

     Stock  Options

     The  Company  has  granted stock options to personnel, including officers
and directors in accordance with both the 1995 Option Plan and the 1997 Equity
Participation  Plan.    These  options have expiration dates of ten years from
date  of  grant  and vest over three years.  The Company granted these options
with the exercise price equal to the market value as determined at the date of
grant.

     In  August  1997  as  part  of  the  introduction  of  the  1997  Equity
Participation Plan, the Company cancelled 10,970 options, being all non-issued
options  remaining  under  the  1995  Option  Plan.



- -F11-

8.          STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)

      The total number of shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance upon
exercise  of  options  and  other  awards,  or  upon  vesting of restricted or
deferred stock awards, under the 1997 Plan is initially established at 250,000
and  increases  at  the  beginning  of each fiscal year, commencing on July 1,
1998, by an amount equal to 4% of the outstanding Common Stock on the last day
of  the  preceding  fiscal year.  The maximum number of shares of Common Stock
issuable upon exercise of incentive stock options granted under the 1997 Plan,
however, cannot exceed 2,000,000.  And, the maximum number of shares which may
be  subject  to options, rights or other awards granted under the 1997 Plan to
any  individual  in  any  calendar  year  cannot  exceed  75,000.






     The  fair  value  of each stock option grant was estimated on the date of
grant  using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model  with  the  following
assumptions:  weighted  average  risk-free  interest  rates of 5.8% for fiscal
1998,1997  and  1996,  respectively; no dividend yield; expected lives of four
years;  and  volatility  of  34%  for  1998  and  62.7%  for  1997  and  1996,
respectively.

     Pro  forma  net  income  reflects  only  options  granted  after  1994.  
Therefore,  the full impact of calculating compensation cost for stock options
under  SFAS 123 is not reflected in the pro forma net income amounts presented
above  because  compensation cost is reflected over the options vesting period
of  3  years  and  compensation  cost for options granted prior to, and not in
connection with, the Company's initial public offering on June 2, 1995 are not
considered.

     Preferred  Stock

     In  April,  1997  the  board  of directors authorized 2,000,000 shares of
$0.01 par value preferred stock.  No such shares were issued or outstanding at
June  30,  1998.

- -F12-

                        RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

8.          STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)

     Stock  Purchase  Rights

     In  April  1997,  the Company implemented a plan to protect stockholders'
rights  in  the  event of a proposed takeover of the Company.  Under the plan,
each  share  of  the  Company's  outstanding common stock carries one right to
purchase  Series  A  Junior  Participating Preferred Stock (the "Right").  The
Right  enables  the  holder,  under  certain circumstances, to purchase common
stock  of the Company or of the acquiring person at a substantially discounted
price  ten  days after a person or group publicly announces it has acquired or
has  tendered  an  offer  for  15% or more of the Company's outstanding common
stock.    The  Rights  are  redeemable  at $0.01 per Right and expire in 2007.

9.          OTHER,  NET



     In  November  1994,  the Company and an unrelated third-party     entered
into  a  marketing  rights agreement for the third-party to exclusively market
certain  respiratory  and related products under development by the Company in
the  Japanese  market,  of  which  $242,000  was  recognized  in  fiscal 1996.

     In  March 1998, the Company granted to a third party licenses to three of
the Company's patents for a non refundable payment of $1,250,000.  The license
agreement will allow the third party to  manufacture  and  distribute  certain
products  featuring  the  Company's  patented technology in  the  US  homecare
market,  additionally  the Company  will  earn  royalties  on  products
manufactured.

10.          INCOME  TAXES



- -F13-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997
10.          INCOME  TAXES  (CONTINUED)









- -F14-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997



     The valuation allowance at June 30, 1998 and 1997, primarily relates to a
provision  for  uncertainty  as  to  the  utilization  of  net  operating loss
carryforwards.    The  net  change in the valuation allowance was a decline of
$635,000,  and  an  increase of $475,000 and $125,000 for the years ended June
30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The measurement of deferred tax assets
and  liabilities at June 30 of each year, reflect foreign currency translation
adjustments,  changes  in  enacted  tax  rates  and  changes  in  temporary
differences.    Income  taxes  in 1998, 1997 and 1996 were reduced by $22,000,
$27,000 and $8,000, respectively through the utilization of net operating loss
carryforwards.    Based  on  the  Company's  history of taxable income and its
projection of future earnings, management believes that it is more likely than
not that sufficient taxable income will be generated in the foreseeable future
to  realize  the  net  deferred  tax  asset.

     At  June  30,  1998, ResMed has net operating loss carryforwards for U.S.
federal income tax purposes of approximately $1,079,000 which are available to
offset future U.S. federal taxable income, if any, through 2010.  These losses
have been recognized at June 1998 as the entity involved has generated taxable
income  in  both  fiscal  1998  and  1997.

11.          EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLANS

     ResMed  contributes  to  a  number  of  employee retirement plans for the
benefit  of  its  employees.    These  plans  are  detailed  as  follows:

     Australia

ResMed  contributes  to  defined  contribution pension plans for each employee
resident  in  Australia.   All Australian employees after serving a qualifying
period,  are  entitled  to  benefits  on  retirement,  disability  or  death. 
Employees may contribute additional funds to the plans.  ResMed contributes to
the  plans  at  the  rate  of  6%  -  6.5%  of  the salaries of all Australian
employees.   Total Company contributions to the plans for the years ended June
30,  1998,  1997  and 1996 were $362,000, $318,000 and $374,000, respectively.

United  Kingdom

During  fiscal  1998,  ResMed established a defined contribution plan for each
permanent United Kingdom employee.  All employees, after serving a three month
qualifying period, are entitled to benefit on retirement, disability or death.
 Employees may contribute additional funds to the plan.  ResMed contributes to
the  plans  at the rate of 3% of the salaries.  Total Company contributions to
the  plan  were  $5,000  and  $4,000  in  fiscal  1998  and 1997 respectively.

- -F15-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

11.          EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLANS  (CONTINUED)

United  States

The  Company  sponsors  a  defined  contribution  pension  plan  available  to
substantially  all domestic employees.  Company contributions to this plan are
based on a percentage of employee contributions to a maximum of 3% of employee
salaries.    The  cost of this plan was $54,000 and $39,000 in fiscal 1998 and
1997  respectively.

12.          GEOGRAPHIC  SEGMENT  INFORMATION

     ResMed  operates  primarily  in  the  respiratory  medicine  industry.  
Geographic  segments  have been classified into three regions; America, Europe
and  Australia/Rest  of  World.    America includes the U.S., Canada and South
America, Australia/Rest of World includes Australia, New Zealand, South Africa
and  Asia.









- -F16-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

12.          GEOGRAPHIC  SEGMENT  INFORMATION  (CONTINUED)

     Net  revenues  which  represent  net  sales to unaffiliated customers, is
based  on  the  location of the customers.  Transfers between geographic areas
are  recorded at amounts generally above cost and in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the respective governing tax authorities.  Operating income
or  loss  consists  of  total  net sales less operating expenses, and does not
include  either interest and other income, net, or income taxes.  Identifiable
assets  of  geographic areas are those assets used in the Company's operations
in  each  area  and  excludes  Patents,  Deferred  tax  assets  and  Goodwill.

13.          RELATED  PARTY  TRANSACTIONS

     For the years ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, consulting service fees
in  the  amount  of  $278,000,  $353,000  and $314,000, were paid to Dr. Colin
Sullivan,  a  shareholder.    Dr. Sullivan provides consulting services to the
Company  pursuant  to  a  consulting agreement that terminates on December 31,
2000  (subject  to  extension  for  an additional five year term) for which he
receives  annual  payments  of  $186,000.    The  Company  also reimburses Dr.
Sullivan  for  his  out-of-pocket  expenses  in  performing  such  consulting
services.

     The  Company has also agreed to pay to Dr. Sullivan $130,000 for a period
of 24 months following the termination of his consulting relationship with the
Company  in  exchange for his agreement not to compete with the Company during
this  period.

14.          COMMITMENTS



     Rent  expenses  under operating leases for the years ended June 30, 1998,
1997  and  1996  were  approximately  $607,000,  $585,000  and  $467,000,
respectively.

- -F17-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

15.          BUSINESS  ACQUISITION

     Priess

     On  February  7,  1996 the Company's fully owned German subsidiary ResMed
Priess  GmbH  acquired  the  business and associated assets of Dieter W Priess
Medizintechnik  (Priess), its German distributor for $6,350,000 in cash from a
4%  stockholder  of the Company.  Priess is based in Moenchengladbach, Germany
and  is  engaged  in  the  distribution and sale of respiratory products.  The
acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the results
of  operations  of  Priess  have  been  included in the Company's consolidated
financial  statements from February 7, 1996.  The excess of the purchase price
over  the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired of $4,461,000 has
been recorded as goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line basis over
15  years.  The purchase agreement also provides for additional payments of up
to  $4,000,000 over four years contingent on future sales revenues of Priess. 
On  December  5,  1996  and October 9, 1997 in accordance with the acquisition
contract  the  Company  paid  a  total  of $2,000,000 to Priess as required on
achievement  of  certain  sales  targets, further additional payments, if any,
will  be  accounted  for  as  additional  goodwill.



     The  following  unaudited  pro  forma  financial information presents the
combined results of operations of the Company and Priess as if the acquisition
had  occurred as of the beginning of the year ended June 30, 1996 after giving
effect  to certain adjustments, including amortization of goodwill, additional
depreciation  expense,  reduced interest income from use of IPO funds relating
to  the  acquisition, and related income tax effects.  The pro forma financial
information  does not necessarily reflect the results of operations that would
have  occurred  had  the Company and Priess constituted a single entity during
such  periods.



- -F18-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

15.          BUSINESS  ACQUISITION  (CONTINUED)



16.          LEGAL  ACTIONS

     The  Company  is  currently  engaged  in  significant  patent  litigation
relating to the enforcement and defense of certain of its patents. In 1992 the
Company's  original  Australian  patent,  which  was due to expire in 1998 and
covered  the CPAP method of treating, and the device for treatment of OSA, was
challenged  by  the  Australian  distributor  for Respironics, Inc. and in May
1994,  was  revoked  by  an  Australian  appeals  court  in reliance on issues
specific  to  Australian  patent  law. The Company's market share in Australia
decreased from 1995 and the Company expects that its market share in Australia
will continue to decrease.  The Company on May 29, 1997 paid $246,000 as total
and  final  settlement  of  costs  associated  with  the  litigation.

     In January 1995, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in
the  United  States against Respironics.  The complaint seeks monetary damages
from,  and  injunctive  relief  against Respironics resulting from its alleged
infringement of three of the Company's patents.  In February 1995, Respironics
filed  a  complaint  against  the  Company seeking a declaratory judgment that
Respironics  does  not infringe claims of these patents and that the Company's
patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The two actions have been combined and
are proceeding in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.

- -F19-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

16.          LEGAL  ACTIONS  (CONTINUED)

     In  June  1996,  the  Company  initiated a further action in Pennsylvania
against Respironics regarding alleged infringement of a fourth patent, granted
June  4,  1996, related to the Company's delay timer feature.  This action was
again  consolidated  with the ongoing case such that the two remaining actions
are  proceeding  together.    On  July 1, 1997 the Court granted Respironics a
motion for partial summary judgment holding that Respironics' accused products
do  not  infringe  one  of  the four patents in suit.  Subsequently, the court
undertook a de novo review of the motion and on January 27, 1998 confirmed the
initial  ruling.    It is ResMed's intention to seek reversal of the ruling by
appeal  to  the  United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit once a
final  judgement has been rendered.  On June 18, 1998, a Magistrate Judge made
a  Report and Recommendation that the Court make an order granting Respironics
a  further  motion  for  partial  summary  judgement holding that Respironics'
accused  products  do  not infringe another of the four patents in suit.  That
Report  and  Recommendation  is  awaiting  a  decision  by  the  Judge  in the
proceedings  as  to  whether  to make an order granting the motion for partial
summary  judgement.

     On May 1995, Respironics and its Australian distributor filed a Statement
of Claim against the Company and Dr Farrell in the Federal Court of Australia.
 The  Statement  of  Claim  alleges  that  the Company engaged in unfair trade
practices,  including  the  misuse  of  the  power  afforded by its Australian
patents  and  dominant  market  position  in violation of the Australian Trade
Practices  Act.  The Statement of Claim asserts damage claims in the aggregate
amount  of approximately $1,000,000, constituting lost profit on sales.  While
the  Company intends to defend this action, there can be no assurance that the
Company  will  be successful in defending such action or that the Company will
not  be  required to make significant payments to the claimants.  Furthermore,
the  Company  expects  to  incur ongoing legal costs in defending such action.

- -F20-



                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934,  the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

DATED  September  14,  1998          ResMed  Inc.

     By:                  /S/  PETER  C  FARRELL
     Peter  C.  Farrell,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer
     (Principal  Executive  Officer)


     By:                /S/  ADRIAN  M  SMITH
     Adrian  M.  Smith,  Chief  Financial  Officer
     (Principal  Financial  Officer)



- -27-

          Schedule  II





- -28-



                                EXHIBIT INDEX


a)          The  following  documents  are  filed  as  part  of  this  report:

1.1          Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Schedule.

     The consolidated financial statements and schedule of the Company and its
consolidated  subsidiaries  are  set  forth  in  the  "Index  to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements"  under  Item  8  of  this  report.

3.       Exhibits.  The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report:

3.1          Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*
3.2          By-laws  of  Registrant*
4.1          Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*
4.2          Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997**
10.1          1995  Stock  Option  Plan*
10.2          1997  Equity  Participation  Plan***
10.3          Licensing  Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*
10.4          Consulting  Agreement  between Colin Sullivan and ResMed Limited
effective  from  1  January  1998
10.5         Loan Agreement between the Australian Trade Commission and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*
10.6          Lease  for  82  Waterloo  Road,  Sydney,  Australia*
10.7          Lease  for  10121 Carroll Canyon Road, San Diego 92131-1109, USA
11.1          Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earning  per  Share
16.1          Letter  regarding  change  in  Certifying  Accountant*
21.1          Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1          Consent  and  Report  on  Schedule  of  KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
27.1          Financial  Data  Schedule

*      Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.
**     Incorporated by reference from the registrants Report on Form 8-K (File
No.  0-26038).
***       Incorporated by reference from the Registrant's 1997 Proxy Statement
(File  No.  0-26038).

b)          Report  on  Form  8-K

     None





     Exhibit  10.4

                                      
                                      
                      EFFECTIVE FROM:  1 January 1998
                                      





                                   BETWEEN



                               RESMED LIMITED
                                      
                                      
                                      
                                      
                                     AND


                                      
                           COLIN EDWARD SULLIVAN
                                      
                                      
                                      
                                      
                                      
                                      
                                      
                  FURTHER RESTATED CONSULTANCY AGREEMENT









THIS  FURTHER  RESTATED  CONSULTING  AGREEMENT  is  effective  from 1st day of
January  1998.

BETWEEN

RESMED  LIMITED,  A.C.N.  003  765  142  of  82 Waterloo Road, North Ryde, NSW
("ResMed")

AND

COLIN  EDWARD  SULLIVAN of 25 Wharf Road, Birchgrove in the State of New South
Wales,  University  Professor,  (the  "Consultant")


WHEREAS


A.      ResMed carries on business as a manufacturer of health care equipment,
with  particular  focus  on  sleep  disordered  breathing.

B.         The Consultant is Professor of Medicine at the University of Sydney
("the  University")  and  Director  of the Sleep Disorders Centre at the Royal
Prince  Alfred  Hospital,  is  generally  recognised  as  the  pioneer  of the
treatment  of  obstructive  sleep  apnoea  by  means  of  nasal  CPAP.

C.       ResMed wishes to continue the engagement of the Consultant to provide
consulting  services  as  more  particularly  described  herein  to  ResMed.

D.        ResMed and the Consultant are parties to a Non-Competition Agreement
and  a  Consultancy  Deed  both  dated 8 October 1990, a letter form agreement
dated  19 April 1991 and a Consultancy Agreement dated 1 September 1993 and an
Amended  and Restated Consultancy Agreement dated 2 September 1994 (the "Prior
Agreements").

E.      It has been agreed that the rights and obligations between the parties
should be consolidated in this Further Restated Consultancy Agreement with the
intention  that  it  supersede  the  Prior  Agreements.


                                    - 2 -
IT  IS  AGREED


1.                    DEFINITIONS

1.1          "CPAP" means the fields comprising the diagnosis and treatment of
snoring  and  sleep  apnea  and other conditions which can be treated by nasal
continuous  positive  airway pressure and the diagnosis and treatment of sleep
disordered  breathing.

1.2       "Confidential Information" means all information and data (including
any  copy  or extract made of or from such information or data) concerning the
operations,  dealings,  organizations,  business,  finance,  transactions,
customers,  trade  secrets,  prospects, markets, scientific formulae, designs,
drawings,  know-how,  manufacturing  processes  and  affairs of ResMed and any
other  intellectual  property  ResMed  in  whatever  form  including,  without
limitation,  all  such  information  and  data  recorded or stored by means of
mechanical,  electronic  or  other  device.


2.          CONSULTANCY

2.1          The Consultant will provide to ResMed, and ResMed will engage the
Consultant  to  provide  to  it,  for  the  term of this Agreement and for the
consideration  expressed  in  Clause  4,  the  following  consulting services:

     2.1.1       to conduct experimental and investigative work in relation to
CPAP  and  devices  related to the diagnosis and treatment of sleep disordered
breathing;

     2.1.2     to attend product development and research meetings of ResMed's
staff  as  requested  by  ResMed;

     2.1.3       to participate and contribute to intellectual property rights
protection  activities;

     2.1.4        to give lectures and talks to professional bodies and actual
and  potential  customers  as  requested  by  ResMed;


                                       - 3 -

2.1.5          to  provide  such other consulting services to ResMed as it may
reasonably  request  and  the  Consultant  is  willing  to  provide.

2.2          ResMed  recognises  that the Consultant has academic and clinical
responsibilities and accordingly ResMed shall take reasonable account of these
other  responsibilities  in  making requests under Clauses 2.1.2, 2.1.3, 2.1.4
and  2.1.5.

2.3     The services described in sub-clauses 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.1.3 and 2.15 are
hereinafter called the "R&D Services" and the services described in sub-clause
2.1.4  are  hereinafter  called  the  "Marketing  &  Promotional  Services".


3.          NON-COMPETITION

3.1        In consideration of the amount paid and to be paid by ResMed to the
Consultant  pursuant  to this Agreement (including Clause 3.2) the Consultant:

     (a)          acknowledges that the contact he establishes with clients of
ResMed  is  of  great  value  to  ResMed;

     (b)         agrees that he shall not without the prior written consent of
ResMed  participate assist or otherwise be concerned directly or indirectly in
any  capacity in any CPAP business, or sleep disordered breathing diagnosis or
treatment business or related devices business or own or control directly more
than  10% of the shares or other securities of a corporation or trust carrying
on  a  CPAP  business  or  sleep  disordered  breathing diagnosis or treatment
business  or  related  devices business or act as consultant or adviser to any
other  company, person, firm, organisation or body in the field of CPAP, sleep
disordered  breathing  diagnosis  or  treatment  business  or  related devices
business  during  the  term  of this Agreement and for a period of twenty-four
months  thereafter  provided  that nothing herein shall prevent the Consultant
from continuing his academic and clinical responsibilities of a like nature to
those  pertaining  at  the  date  of  this  Agreement.



                                    - 4 -

3.2      In consideration for the Consultant's covenant not to compete for the
period  of  twenty-four months after the term of this Agreement but subject to
the  Consultant  not having breached such covenant ResMed agrees to pay to the
Consultant  the  sum  of  A$100,000  at the expiration of twelve months, and a
further  sum  of  A$100,000 at the expiration of twenty-four months, after the
term  of  this  Agreement.

4.          CONSIDERATION

4.1       ResMed shall pay to the Consultant in consideration for him entering
and  complying  with  this  Agreement: A$75,000 per quarter of ResMed's fiscal
year  (or  such  other amount as the parties may agree from time to time); and

4.2          ResMed  will pay directly, or reimburse to the Consultant, agreed
expenses  incurred  or  to  be  incurred by the Consultant in the course of or
arising  in  relation  to  the  R&D  Services or the Marketing and Promotional
Services.


5.          USE  OF  NAME

5.1     The parties acknowledge that ResMed is the proprietor of the trademark
"SULLIVAN"  and  uses  that  mark  extensively.    In  addition the Consultant
authorises  ResMed to use the name "SULLIVAN" generally in connection with its
business  and  CPAP  and  CPAP related products and sleep disordered breathing
diagnosis  and  treatment  products  and  related  products.


6.          TERM

6.1          This Agreement is effective from 1 January 1998 and will continue
until  31  December  2000, and may be renewed for a further period of five (5)
years  by  mutual  agreement  between  the  parties.




                                    - 5 -

6.2       In the event of the death or permanent disablement of the Consultant
during  the  term  of  this  Agreement,  this Agreement shall be automatically
terminated  but  in  such event ResMed will pay to the Consultant or his legal
personal  representatives  an  amount equal to 50% of the payments which would
otherwise  have  been due to the Consultant under Clause 4, for the balance of
the  term  of this Agreement. If such balance is less than twelve (12) months,
then  ResMed  will pay 50% of the payments calculated in the manner set out in
Clause  4  for  twelve  (12)  months  after  termination.


7.          CONFIDENTIAL  INFORMATION  AND  INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY

7.1        The Consultant acknowledges that all Confidential Information which
may  come  into  the  Consultant's  possession  during  the consultancy is and
remains  the  property  of  ResMed.

7.2          The  Consultant  shall,  upon  termination  of  the  Consultant's
appointment,  return  all  property  or  Confidential Information belonging to
ResMed  which  has  come into the Consultant's possession in the course of the
Consultant's consultancy, whether or not originally supplied to the Consultant
by  ResMed.

7.3         The Consultant shall not at any time disclose to any person (other
than  a  Director  of  ResMed or a person approved by ResMed) any Confidential
Information  which  may  come into his possession and he shall not make use of
any  such Confidential Information to gain directly or indirectly any improper
advantage  to  himself  or  any  other  person.

7.4          The  Consultant  hereby:

(a)      agrees to disclose to ResMed any discovery, invention, secret process
or  improvement  in  procedure made, developed or discovered by the Consultant
whilst  a  consultant  to ResMed in connection with or in any way affecting or
relating  to CPAP or the diagnosis or treatment of sleep disordered breathing;

(b)        assigns to ResMed all copyright, patent rights or other proprietary
rights  attaching to such discovery, invention, secret process or improvement;


                                    - 6 -
(c)          agrees  to:

(i)          apply  or join in applying (at the expense of ResMed) for letters
patent  or  other  similar protection in Australia or in any other part of the
world  for  any  such discovery, invention, secret process or improvement; and

(ii)       execute all instruments and do all things necessary for vesting the
said  letters  patent  or other similar protection when obtained and all right
and  title  to  and  interest  in such discovery, invention, secret process or
improvement  in  ResMed  or  its  nominee;

(d)          appoints  ResMed  as  his  attorney  to execute on his behalf any
instrument  and  to do any act or thing necessary for the purpose of giving to
ResMed  or  its nominee the full benefit of the provisions of this clause; and

(e)         agrees that unless otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing this
Agreement  shall  be  conclusive evidence of ResMed's authority to execute any
instrument  or  do any act or thing necessary to give to ResMed or its nominee
the  full  benefit  of  this  clause.


8.          INDEMNITY

8.1         ResMed will indemnify and hold harmless the Consultant against all
actions,  suits,  claims,  demands, losses, costs and expenses incurred by the
Consultant  which are caused by or arise out of the defects or alleged defects
in the design or manufacture of CPAP or CPAP related products and products for
the  diagnosis  or treatment of sleep disordered breathing or related products
sold  or  made  available  by  ResMed.

8.2          Further  to  Clause  8.1, ResMed will cause its product liability
insurance  policies  in force during the term of this Agreement to be endorsed
to  cover  the  Consultant  as  a  co-insured.


9.          DISPUTE  RESOLUTION


                                    - 7 -

9.1     Any dispute between the parties in relation to any matters the subject
of  this  Agreement which cannot be resolved by negotiation shall be submitted
to  Arbitration  under  the rules of the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre
Ltd  and  the  outcome  of  that Arbitration will be final and binding on both
parties.


10.          CONTINUITY

10.1        Not later than six (6) months prior to the end of the term of this
Agreement  the  parties will enter into negotiations in good faith with a view
to continuing the provision of consulting services by the Consultant to ResMed
for  a  further  term.

11.          PRIOR  AGREEMENTS

11.1          The  Prior  Agreements  are  terminated  by  mutual  agreement.

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF  the  parties  have  duly  executed  this  Agreement

SIGNED  for  and  on  behalf  of          )
RESMED  LIMITED                           )
in  the  presence  of:                    )

/S/  ADRIAN  M  SMITH              /S/  CHRISTOPHER  G  ROBERTS
__________________________         ____________________________
Signature  of  Witness              Signature  of  Authorised  Person
Adrian  M  Smith                    Christopher  G  Roberts
__________________________         ____________________________
Name  of  Witness  (Print)          Name  of  Authorised  Person
Company  Secretary                  Director
Office  Held                        Office  Held


SIGNED by                               )
COLIN  EDWARD  SULLIVAN                 )
in  the  presence  of:                  )

/S/  KEN  MCDONALD                 /S/  COLIN  EDWARD  SULLIVAN
__________________________         ____________________________
Signature  of  Witness             Signature  of  COLIN  EDWARD  SULLIVAN
Ken  McDonald
__________________________
Name  of  Witness  (Print)




     Exhibit  10.7











                          STANDARD INDUSTRIAL LEASE
                                    (NET)


                        SCRIPPS RANCH BUSINESS CENTER




                            WESTERN SALT COMPANY,
                           A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION

                                  "LANDLORD"


                                     AND


                                RESMED CORP.,
                           A MINNESOTA CORPORATION

                                   "TENANT"





                                                                   
SECTION          PAGE

1.           BASIC  LEASE  PROVISIONS.                  1
2.           DEFINITIONS.                               2
3.           PREMISES.                                  6
4.           TERM;  DELIVERY  OF  PREMISES.             7
5.           RENT.                                      8
6.           SECURITY  DEPOSIT.                        10
7.           USE.                                      10
8.           MAINTENANCE,  REPAIRS  AND  ALTERATIONS.  12
9.           TAXES                                     14
10.          UTILITIES.                                14
11.          INSURANCE.                                15
12.          WAIVER  AND  INDEMNITY.                   17
13.          DAMAGE  AND  DESTRUCTION.                 18
14.          CONDEMNATION.                             20
15.          ASSIGNMENT  AND  SUBLETTING.              21
16.          DEFAULT  BY  TENANT;  REMEDIES.           23
17.          TENANT'S  INSOLVENCY.                     25
18.          DEFAULT  BY  LANDLORD.                    27
19.          SUBORDINATION  AND  ESTOPPEL.             27
20.          HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS.                     29
21.          NOTICE.                                   30
22.          OTHER  TERMS  AND  CONDITIONS.            30
23.          GENERAL  PROVISIONS.                      32
24.          ADDENDUM.                                 38



                                  EXHIBITS


A          Site  Plan
B          Premises  and  Improvements  to  Premises
C          Rules  and  Regulations
D          Signage  Criteria
E          Environmental  Questionnaire
F          Declaration  of  Restrictions





                        STANDARD INDUSTRIAL LEASE-NET
                                      

THIS  STANDARD  INDUSTRIAL  LEASE-NET  ("LEASE"), dated for reference purposes
only  August  6,  1997, is made at San Diego, California, between WESTERN SALT
COMPANY,  a California corporation ("LANDLORD"), and RESMED CORP., a Minnesota
corporation  ("TENANT").
1.          BASIC  LEASE  PROVISIONS.
     The  words  and  figures  set forth in this Section 1 are used as defined
terms  in  this  Lease.
     1.1.          PREMISES:  The real property and improvements which are the
subject of this Lease.  The Premises consist of 22,976 RENTABLE SQUARE FEET as
depicted  on Exhibit B.  The address for the Premises is 10121 - 10123 Carroll
Canyon  Road,  San  Diego,  California  92131.
1.2.     BUILDING:  The industrial building addressed at 10121 - 10123 Carroll
Canyon Road, San Diego, California, consisting of 22,976 rentable square feet.
1.3.          PROJECT:    Scripps Ranch Business Center, consisting of six (6)
buildings  which contain a total rentable area of approximately 157,735 square
feet.    The  Project,  is  depicted  on  Exhibit  A.
1.4.          TERM:                                     Ninety six (96) months
1.5.          COMMENCEMENT  AND  EXPIRATION  DATES:
(a)      Commencement Date:     The earlier of (i) completion of Tenant's Work
as  set  forth  in  Exhibit  B,  or  (ii)  January  1,  1998
(b)     Expiration Date:     December 31, 2005; however, subject to the actual
Commencement  Date
     (c)          Delivery  of the Premises:     September 1, 1997 (estimated)
     1.6.       EXTENSION OPTION PERIOD:               One (1); for sixty (60)
months
1.7.          INITIAL  MONTHLY  BASE  RENT:                         $14,934.40
1.8.          PREPAID  BASE  RENT:                                  $14,934.40
1.9.          PERIODIC  INCREASE  IN  BASE  RENT:
  Lease  Year          Base  Rent
     2          $15,382.43
     3          $15,843.90
     4          $16,319.22
     5          $16,808.80
     6          $17,313.06
     7          $17,832.45
     8          $18,367.43
     1.10.          SECURITY  DEPOSIT  AMOUNT:                      $14,934.40
1.11.          TENANT  IMPROVEMENT  ALLOWANCE:     $206,784.00 (Subject to the
provisions  of  Exhibit  B  and  Section  26  of  the  Addendum  to  Lease).

- -1-


     1.12.          TENANT'S  SHARE  OF  OPERATING  EXPENSES:
     (a)          Real  Property  Taxes:                              20.52%
(b)          Other  Operating  Expenses:                    14.57%
1.13.          PERMITTED  USE:        General office and warehouse for design,
production,  sales,  distribution  and  shipping  of  respiratory  products.
     1.14.          TENANT'S  GUARANTOR(S):                              N/A
1.15.          BROKER(S):          The  Sande  Company  -  Tenant
CB  Commercial  Real  Estate  Group  -  Landlord
1.16.      PARKING:     Sixty nine (69) vehicles; including six (6) contiguous
to  the  Building  marked  "reserved"  for  Tenant
1.17.         LANDLORD'S ADDRESS FOR NOTICE:     H. G. Fenton Material Company
c/o  Fenton-Western  Properties
7220  Trade  Street,  Suite  300  92121
Post  Office  Box  64
San  Diego,  California  92112
Tel:  (619)  566-2000
Fax:  (619)  549-3587
1.18          TENANT'S  ADDRESS  FOR  NOTICE:          ResMed  Corp.
10121  Carroll  Canyon  Road
San  Diego,  California  92131
Tel:
Fax:
Attention:
1.19          ADDENDUM:          Section  24-27
2.          DEFINITIONS.
     The  captions  appearing  in  this Section 2 are used as defined terms in
this  Lease.
     2.1.         ADDITIONAL RENT.  All sums payable by Tenant hereunder other
than  Base  Rent,  including  without  limitation; Tenant's Share of Operating
Expenses;  late  charges;  interest  on past due amounts; attorneys' fees; and
reimbursement  to Landlord of sums advanced by Landlord to cure any default or
discharge  any  obligation  of  Tenant  hereunder.
2.2.      BASE RENT.  The basic monthly rent payable to Tenant for the use and
occupancy  of  the  Premises,  in  accordance  with  Section  5 of this Lease.
2.3.       BUSINESS PARK.  The overall planned industrial development of which
the  Project  is  a  part.
2.4.          COMMENCEMENT  DATE.  The first day of the Term, as determined in
accordance  with  Section  4.1  below.
2.5.          COMMON AREAS.  All areas and facilities outside the Premises and
within  the  Building and Project that Tenant is permitted to use, as provided
and designated by the Landlord from time to time for the general non-exclusive
use  of  Landlord,  Tenant  and  other tenants of the Building and Project and
their  respective  employees,  suppliers,  shippers,  customers,  invitees,
licensees or other visitors, including without limitation hallways, entryways,

- -2-


common  rest  rooms  on  multi-tenant  floors,  elevators (if any), stairways,
common  pipes, conduits, wires and appurtenant equipment serving the Premises,
parking  areas, loading and unloading areas, trash areas, roadways, sidewalks,
walkways,  parkways,  driveways  and  landscaped  areas.
2.6.       DECLARATION.  The recorded Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and
Restrictions  for  the  Business Park, as the same may be amended from time to
time.
2.7.      DELIVERY OF THE PREMISES.  The date of the inspection and acceptance
(or  deemed acceptance) of the Premises by Tenant, following Landlord's notice
that  Landlord's  Delivery Work has been substantially completed in accordance
with  Exhibit  B  attached  hereto.
2.8.      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any and all materials or substances which have
been determined to be nuisance or dangerous, toxic or hazardous or a pollutant
or  contaminant,  including  but  not  limited  to  any  hydrocarbon material,
flammable  explosives,  asbestos,  urea formaldehyde, radioactive materials or
waste,  or  other  hazardous,  toxic,  contaminating  or  polluting materials,
substances  or  wastes,  including,  without  limitation,  any  "hazardous
substances,"  "hazardous  wastes," "hazardous materials" or "toxic substances"
under  any  Hazardous  Materials  Laws.
2.9.          HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS  LAWS.   All federal, state and local laws,
ordinances  and  regulations, including, but not limited to, the Federal Water
Pollution  Control  Act  (33  U.S.C.   1251, et seq.), Resource Conservation &
Recovery  Act  (42 U.S.C.  6901, et seq.), Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
3000f,  et seq.), Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.  2601. et seq.), the
Clean  Air  Act  (42  U.S.C.    7401,  et  seq.),  Comprehensive Environmental
Response,  Compensation  and  Liability  Act  (42  U.S.C.    9601,  et  seq.),
California Health & Safety Code ( 25100, et seq.,  39000, et seq.), California
Safe  Drinking  Water  &  Toxic  Enforcement  Act of 1986 (California Health &
Safety  Code    25429.5, et seq.), California Water Code ( 13000, et seq.),and
other  comparable  federal,  state  or local law, regulation or interpretation
thereof,  whether  currently  in force or enacted in the future, together with
any licenses, permits, plans or approvals generated pursuant to or as a result
of  any  such  law,  which regulates or proscribes the use, storage, disposal,
cleanup, transportation, release or threatened release into the environment or
presence  of  Hazardous  Materials.
2.10.       LEASE YEAR.  A period of twelve consecutive full calendar months. 
The  first Lease Year shall begin on the Commencement Date if the Commencement
Date  is  the  first  day of a calendar month; otherwise, the first Lease Year
shall  begin on the first day of the first full calendar month after the month
in which the Commencement Date occurs.  Each succeeding Lease Year shall begin
on the anniversary of the beginning of the first Lease Year.  If Tenant should
extend the Term pursuant to any extension option granted herein, the first day
of the Extension Term shall also be deemed to be the first day of a Lease Year
for  all  purposes  of  this  Lease.
2.11.        TENANT'S WORK OR TENANT IMPROVEMENTS.  The improvements and other
work,  if  any,  to  be  accomplished  by Tenant in accordance with Exhibit B.
2.12.     LANDLORD'S DELIVERY WORK.  All items of Landlord's Work except those
which  Landlord  reasonably  cannot  complete  prior to the Commencement Date,
e.g.,  Landlord's  Work  that cannot be performed by Landlord until Tenant (i)
provides  Landlord  with  plans and specifications therefor, or (ii) obtains a
building  permit,  or  (iii)  completes  those items of Tenant's Work that are
necessarily  completed  prior  to  a  particular  item  of  Landlord's  Work.
2.13.         LANDLORD'S WORK.  The improvements and other work, if any, to be
accomplished  by  Landlord  in  accordance  with  Exhibit  B.
2.14.        MORTGAGE.  Any mortgage, trust deed or other encumbrance, and all
renewals,  extensions  or  replacements  thereof,  now or hereafter imposed by
Landlord  upon  the  real  property  which  includes  the  Premises.

- -3-


2.15.          MORTGAGEE.    The  holder  of  a  Mortgage.
2.16.     OPERATING EXPENSES.  All costs incurred by Landlord, if any, for any
of  the  following:
     (a)        The operation, repair and maintenance, in neat, clean and good
order  and condition of (i) the Common Areas of the Project, including without
limitation  all  parking  areas,  loading  and  unloading  areas, trash areas,
roadways,  sidewalks,  walkways,  parkways,  driveways,  landscaped  areas,
striping,  bumpers,  and  irrigation systems, common area lighting facilities,
and  fences and gates; (ii) fire detection in the Project, including sprinkler
system  maintenance  and repair; and (iii) unless allocated directly to Tenant
pursuant  to  Section  8.1(b),  the  Building's  heating,  ventilation and air
conditioning  ("HVAC")  systems
(b)        Trash disposal for the Project, and to the extent any such services
are  provided,  janitorial  service,  security  services, gardening, painting,
plumbing,  electrical, carpentry, window washing, signage and equipment rental
expenses,  and  any other service to be provided by Landlord that is elsewhere
in  the  Lease  stated  to  be  an  item  of  Operating  Expenses.
(c)      Any deductible portion of an insured loss concerning any of the items
or  matters  described  in  this  Section.
(d)     Premiums for any insurance policies maintained by Landlord pursuant to
Section  11  below.
(e)          Real  Property  Taxes  to  be  paid  by  Landlord.
(f)         Utilities not separately metered to Tenant or other tenants of the
Project.
(g)     Independent contractors for services (excluding capital improvements),
and  compensation  (including  employment  taxes  and  fringe benefits) of all
persons  who  perform  regular  and recurring duties connected with day-to-day
operation,  maintenance  and repair of the Project, provided such compensation
is  commercially  reasonable.
(h)      Maintenance and repair of roofs, building walls, foundations, and all
sewer  and  water  facilities.
(i)        A property management fee in the amount of fifteen percent (15%) of
the  preceding  items  of  Operating  Expenses.
The  inclusion  of  the improvements, facilities and services set forth in the
foregoing  definition  shall not be deemed Landlord's representation that such
improvements  or  facilities  exist,  nor  shall  it  impose  on  Landlord any
obligation either to have those improvements or facilities or to provide those
services,  unless  the improvements or facilities already exist in the Project
or  Landlord  already  provides  the  services as of the Commencement Date, or
unless  Landlord  has agreed to do so elsewhere in the Lease.  Notwithstanding
the  foregoing  or  anything  in this Lease to the contrary, in no event shall
Operating  Expenses  include  the  following:  (A)  depreciation,  (B) leasing
commissions,  attorney's  fees  and  other  costs  and  expenses  incurred  in
connection with negotiations or disputes with tenant or prospective tenants or
litigation  to  collect rent from tenants of the Project, (C) capital items of
any  kind  or  nature  except  as  specifically  allowed  in  this  Lease.
     2.17.          REAL PROPERTY TAXES.  All general property and improvement
taxes and all forms of assessment, special assessment or reassessment, license
fee,  license  tax,  business license tax, commercial rental tax, in lieu tax,
levy,  charge,  penalty  (to  the extent not imposed as a result of Landlord's
negligence)  or similar imposition, imposed by any authority having the direct
power  to tax, including any city, county, state or federal government, or any
school,  agricultural,  lighting,  drainage  or  other  improvement or special
assessment  district  thereof,  or  any  agency or public body, as against any
legal  or  equitable interest of Landlord in the Premises and all improvements
thereon  and  thereto  as  they  presently  exist  or as they may be expanded,
developed, constructed or altered from time to time, including but not limited
to:  (a)  any  tax  on Landlord's rent, right to rent or other income from the

- -4-


Premises  or  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Project or as against Landlord's
business  of  leasing  the  Premises,  but  specifically  excluding Landlord's
federal,  state or city income, franchise, corporate, personal property, stock
transfer,  revenues,  inheritance or estate taxes; (b) any assessments, taxes,
fees,  levies  or  charges  in  addition  to, or in substitution, partially or
totally,  for  any  assessment,  tax,  fee, levy or charge previously included
within  the  definition of real property tax before adoption of Proposition 13
by  the  voters of the State of California in the June 1978 election, it being
acknowledged  by Tenant and Landlord that assessments, taxes, fees, levies and
charges  may  be  imposed  by  governmental agencies for such services as fire
protection,  street,  sidewalk  and  road  maintenance, refuse removal and for
other  governmental  services that were before Proposition 13 provided without
charge to property owners or occupants; and (c) any assessment, tax, fee, levy
or  charge  upon  this  transaction or any document to which Tenant is a party
which  is  imposed  on the creation or transfer of an interest or an estate in
the  Premises.    It  is the intention of Tenant and Landlord that all new and
increased  assessments,  taxes,  fees,  levies  and  charges,  and all similar
assessments, taxes, fees, levies and charges be included within the definition
of  Real  Property  Taxes for the purposes of this Lease.  Real Property Taxes
for  the  first  year  of  the Term shall be calculated as if the Premises and
related  improvements were fully assessed.  If at any time during the Term the
laws  concerning  the  methods  of  real  property  taxation prevailing at the
commencement of the Lease Term are changed so that a tax or excise on rents or
any  other tax, however described, is levied or assessed against Landlord as a
substitution  in  whole  or  in  part  for  any real property taxes, then Real
Property Taxes shall include, but not be limited to, any such assessment, tax,
fee,  levy  or  charge allocable to or measured by the area of the Premises or
the  rent  payable  hereunder, including, without limitation, any gross income
tax  with  respect to the receipt of such rent, or upon or with respect to the
possession,  leasing,  operating, management, maintenance, alteration, repair,
use  or  occupancy  by  Tenant  of the Premises, or any portion thereof.  With
respect  to  any  assessments that may be levied against or upon the Premises,
the Building or all or any portion of the Project and that under the laws then
in  force  may  be  evidenced by improvement or other bonds, or may be paid in
annual  installments,  there  shall  be included within the definition of Real
Property  Taxes  with respect to any tax fiscal year only the amount currently
payable  on  such  tax,  bond  or assessment, including interest, for such tax
fiscal  year  or  the  current  annual  installment  for such tax fiscal year.
3.          PREMISES.
     3.1.       LEASE OF PREMISES.  In consideration of the rent and covenants
set  forth  below,  Landlord  hereby leases the Premises to Tenant, and Tenant
hires the Premises from Landlord, for the term, at the rental, and upon all of
the  conditions  set  forth herein.  Except as otherwise provided herein, this
Lease  is  subject to: (i) all covenants, conditions, restrictions, easements,
mortgages,  deeds of trust, lease, ground or underlying leases, rights of way,
reciprocal  easement  agreements to which Landlord is a party which affect the
Project  and  all  other matters now or hereafter affecting the Project or the
Premises;  and  (ii)  all  zoning  laws,  ordinances and building codes now or
hereafter  affecting the Project or the Premises.  In the event Landlord has a
leasehold  interest in the Project or the Premises, this Lease shall terminate
upon  the  termination  of such leasehold interest whether such termination is
voluntary,  involuntary, or by operation of law, without liability of Landlord
(unless  otherwise  specifically  set  forth  herein).
3.2.     LANDLORD'S RESERVED RIGHTS.  Landlord reserves to itself the absolute
rights: (i) to use the roof, exterior walls and area beneath the Premises, and
(ii)  to  install,  use,  maintain  and  replace  equipment, machinery, pipes,
conduits and wiring located within the Premises which serve other parts of the
Project,  in a manner and in locations that do not unreasonably interfere with
Tenant's  use  of  the  Premises.
3.3.     CONDITION OF PREMISES.  Tenant acknowledges that except to the extent
expressly  set  forth  in  this  Lease  or  in a written addendum or amendment
hereto,  neither  Landlord  nor its agents have made (i) any promise to alter,
remodel  or  otherwise  improve,  or  (ii) any representation or warranty with
respect  to  the  condition  of, the Premises, the Building or any part of the
Project or improvements thereon or therein.  Tenant's taking possession of the
Premises  shall  be  deemed acceptance of the Premises by Tenant, and shall be
deemed  conclusively  to  establish  that  the  Premises  are  in  good  and
satisfactory condition as of the date Tenant takes possession.  Subject to the
completion  of  any Landlord's Work, Tenant accepts possession of the Premises
in  their  current, "as is", condition, and acknowledges that it has inspected

- -5-


the  Premises before signing this Lease and is fully aware of the condition of
the Premises.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, and prior to Landlord's Delivery
of  the  Premises, Landlord shall cause a licensed professional to inspect any
existing  HVAC  system,  electrical  system  and  sprinkler  system ("Existing
Utility  Systems")  located in or on the Premises to ensure that each Existing
Utility  System  and  any  related  component  is  in proper working order and
condition.    After  completion of any such inspection, Landlord shall provide
Tenant  with  a  written  report  certifying  the  same.
3.4.        RIGHTS IN COMMON AREAS.  Landlord grants to Tenant and to Tenant's
employees,  invitees  and licensees a non-exclusive license during the Term to
use  the  Common  Areas,  subject  to the terms and conditions of this Lease. 
Tenant  acknowledges  that  others,  including without limitation Landlord and
other  tenants  of  the  Building and Project, and their respective employees,
invitees  and visitors, and other persons authorized by Landlord, will also be
entitled  to  use  the  Common  Areas.    Without advance notice to Tenant and
without  any liability to Tenant in any respect, Landlord shall have the right
to:
     (a)     Establish and enforce reasonable rules and regulations concerning
the  maintenance,  management,  use  and  operation  of  the  Common  Areas.
(b)       Close off any of the Common Areas to whatever extent required in the
opinion  of  Landlord  and  its  counsel to prevent a dedication of any of the
Common  Areas  or the accrual of any rights by any person or the public to the
Common Areas, provided such closure does not deprive Tenant of the substantial
benefit  and  enjoyment  of  the  Premises.
(c)      Temporarily close any of the Common Areas for maintenance, alteration
or  improvements  purposes.
(d)          Select,  appoint  or  contract with any person for the purpose of
operating  and maintaining the Common Areas, subject to such terms and at such
rates  as  Landlord  deems  reasonable  and  proper.
(e)         Change the size, use, shape or nature of any portion of the Common
Areas,  provided  change does not deprive Tenant of the reasonable benefit and
enjoyment  of  the  Premises.    So long as Tenant is not thus deprived of the
reasonable  use and benefit of the Premises, Landlord will also have the right
at  any time to change the arrangement or location of, or both, or to regulate
or  eliminate  the  use  of,  any  concourse,  parking  spaces, garage, or any
elevators,  stairs,  toilets  or  other  public  conveniences  in the Project,
without incurring any liability to Tenant or entitling Tenant to any abatement
of  rent,  and  such  action  will  not  constitute  an actual or constructive
eviction  of  Tenant.
(f)     Erect one or more additional buildings on the Common Areas, expand the
existing  buildings or other buildings to cover a portion of the Common Areas,
convert  Common  Areas  to  a  portion  of the Building or other buildings, or
convert any portion of such other buildings to Common areas.  Upon erection of
any  additional  buildings  or  change in the Common Areas, the portion of the
Project upon which buildings or structures have been erected will no longer be
deemed  to be a part of the Common Areas.  In the event of any such changes in
the  size  or  use  of  the  Common Areas of the Project, Landlord may make an
appropriate  adjustment  in the Building's or any buildings' pro rata share of
exterior  Common  Areas  of  the  Project  as appropriate, and a corresponding
adjustment  to  Tenant's  Share  of  Operating  Expenses.
4.          TERM;  DELIVERY  OF  PREMISES.
     4.1.       TERM.  The Term shall be for the number of months set forth at
Section  1.4  above,  beginning  on  the  Commencement  Date and ending on the
Expiration  Date.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Delivery of the Premises
has not occurred by the Commencement Date, then the Commencement Date shall be
the  actual date of Delivery of the Premises, as advanced day-for-day for each
day's  delay  therein  that is Tenant Delay.  Landlord shall not be liable for
any  damage  incurred  by  Tenant  as a result of any delay in Delivery of the
Premises,  and  this Lease shall not thereby become void or voidable.  "TENANT
DELAY"  means  delay  in  the  Delivery  of  the Premises caused by any of the
following: (i) non-compliance by Tenant with matters to be performed by Tenant
or Tenant's agents as specified in Exhibit B; (ii) Tenant's failure to respond

- -6-


within a reasonable time during the design or construction periods to requests
for  approval,  consent, explanation or interpretation of anything relating to
the  construction of Landlord's Work; (iii) the effect of any change orders or
other  revisions  of any items of Landlord's Work initiated or necessitated by
Tenant  or  its  agents;  or  (iv)  any  other cause within Tenant's exclusive
control  that  adversely  affects  the  date  of  Delivery  of  the  Premises.
4.2.         DELIVERY OF THE PREMISES.  Upon completion of Landlord's Delivery
Work,  the  parties  shall  jointly  inspect  the Premises.  If any defects in
Landlord's  Delivery  Work  exist at the time of such inspection, Tenant shall
notify  Landlord  thereof  in  writing upon its inspection of the Premises and
Landlord  shall  correct such defects; provided, however, that Delivery of the
Premises  to Tenant shall be delayed only if the existence of any such defects
would materially adversely affect Tenant's occupancy of the Premises, in which
case  the  date  of  Delivery  of  the  Premises  shall be the date upon which
Landlord notifies Tenant that such defects have been substantially corrected. 
Upon  inspection  and  Delivery  of  the  Premises  to Tenant, Tenant shall at
Landlord's  request sign a written statement acknowledging Tenant's inspection
and  acceptance of the Premises.  If Tenant shall fail to contact Landlord and
inspect  the  Premises  within  five  (5) days after notice from Landlord that
Landlord's  Delivery  Work has been substantially completed, Landlord's notice
shall  be  conclusive and binding and Delivery of the Premises shall be deemed
to  have  occurred on the last day of the five-day period.  If a dispute shall
arise  between Landlord and Tenant as to completion of any of Landlord's Work,
the  certificate  of Landlord's architect shall be binding and conclusive upon
all  parties.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise agreed to, if
Tenant  shall begin Tenant's Work or shall otherwise occupy the Premises prior
to  substantial  completion  of  Landlord's  Delivery  Work,  Delivery  of the
Premises  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  the  date of such commencement of
Tenant's  Work  or  other  occupancy  of  the  Premises.
4.3.      TERMINATION FOR NON-COMMENCEMENT.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
the  event  that  Delivery  of the Premises has not occurred within six months
after  Lessee  and  Lessor  have executed this Lease, then for a period of ten
(10)  days  after  the expiration of such six-month period either party not in
default  hereunder  may cancel and terminate this Lease, without any liability
to  the  other  party,  upon  written  notice to the other party; and provided
further,  however, that if such written notice of termination is not delivered
by  either  party  within the ten-day period, the foregoing right to terminate
this  Lease  shall  itself  terminate  and  be  of no further force or effect.
4.4.          MEMORANDUM  OF COMMENCEMENT DATE.  Following the Delivery of the
Premises, Landlord shall prepare and forward to Tenant two copies of a written
Memorandum  of  Commencement  Date,  signed  by  Landlord,  confirming  the
Commencement Date and the date on which the Term will expire.  Within ten (10)
days  after  receipt  thereof,  Tenant  shall  sign and return one copy of the
Memorandum of Commencement Date, indicating either Tenant's agreement with the
matters  set  forth therein or any areas of disagreement.  Tenant's failure to
return  a  copy  of  the  Memorandum  of Commencement Date within such ten-day
period  shall  be  conclusively deemed Tenant's agreement with all matters set
forth  therein.    Any  dispute  or  disagreement  on  Tenant's part as to the
Commencement  Date  set  forth  in  such  memorandum shall, at the election of
either  party,  be  submitted  to  final,  binding  arbitration  in San Diego,
California  under the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration
Association.
4.5.          EARLY  POSSESSION.  If Tenant occupies the Premises prior to the
Commencement  Date,  such occupancy shall be subject to all provisions of this
Lease  and shall not advance the Expiration Date, and Tenant shall pay monthly
Base  Rent  for  such  period  at  the  initial rate set forth in Section 1.7.
5.          RENT.
     5.1.     GENERAL.  From and after the Commencement Date, Tenant agrees to
pay  Landlord,  in  advance, on the first day of each and every calendar month
during  the Term, Base Rent and Additional Rent as specified in this Section. 
Payment of all such rent shall be without offset or demand, shall be in lawful
money  of  the  United  States of America and shall be made at the address set
forth  for  Landlord  herein  or  at  such other place as Landlord may direct.
5.2.      BASE RENT.  Base Rent shall initially be in the amount per month set
forth  in  Section  1.7.

- -7-


5.3.      ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT TO BASE RENT.  Base Rent shall be increased during
the  Term  in  accordance  with  the  schedule  set  forth  in  Section  1.9.
5.4.         OPERATING EXPENSES.  The parties intend that, subject only to the
specific  exceptions  set  forth  herein,  this  Lease  be  absolutely  net to
Landlord.  Accordingly, in addition to Base Rent and subject to the provisions
of  this Section and Section 27 of the Addendum to Lease, Tenant shall pay, as
Additional  Rent,  Tenant's  Share  of Operating Expenses incurred by Landlord
during  each  calendar  year  of the Term, pursuant to the following terms and
conditions:
     (a)       Landlord shall provide to Tenant, at or before the Commencement
Date,  a  good  faith  estimate  of  Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses that
Landlord  anticipates will actually be incurred for the calendar year in which
the  Commencement Date occurs.  Landlord shall also provide to Tenant, as soon
as  possible  following the first day of each succeeding calendar year, a good
faith  estimate  of  Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses with respect to such
succeeding  calendar  year  of  the  Term.
(b)          Each  annual  estimate  of  Tenant's  Share of Operating Expenses
determined  by  Landlord pursuant to this Section shall be divided into twelve
(12)  equal  monthly  installments.  Tenant shall pay to Landlord such monthly
installment of Tenant's Shares of Operating Expenses with each monthly payment
of  Base  Rent.    In  the  event  the  estimated  amount of Tenant's Share of
Operating  Expenses  has not yet been determined for any calendar year, Tenant
shall  pay  the monthly installment in the estimated amount determined for the
preceding  calendar  year until the estimate for the current calendar year has
been  provided to Tenant, at which time Tenant shall pay any shortfall for the
preceding  months  of  the calendar year and shall thereafter make the monthly
installment  payment  in  accordance  with  the  current  estimate.
(c)      Within sixty (60) days following the end of each calendar year of the
Term, Landlord shall determine and provide to Tenant a statement setting forth
the  amount  of  Operating  Expenses  actually  incurred  with respect to such
calendar  year.    In  the  event that Tenant's Share of such actual Operating
Expenses  exceeds  the sum of the monthly installments actually paid by Tenant
for  such  calendar  year, Tenant shall pay the difference to Landlord, within
thirty (30) days following receipt of such statement.  In the event the sum of
such  installments  exceeds Tenant's Share of such Operating Expenses actually
incurred,  the  difference shall be applied as a credit to future installments
of  Tenant's  Share  of  Operating  Expenses.
(d)       Upon written request of Tenant, Landlord shall provide an accounting
of  the  Operating  Expenses  for the preceding calendar year.  Landlord shall
keep  at  its  home  office  full, accurate and separate books of account with
backup  documentation  of  Operating Expenses for a period of three full years
after  the  end  of  each  calendar year, which Tenant shall have the right to
examine  and  copy  at  no  expense  to Landlord, at reasonable times and upon
reasonable  notice.  Tenant shall have the right, upon twenty (20) days' prior
notice  to  Landlord,  not  more frequently than annually and at Tenant's sole
cost  and  expense,  to  conduct  an  audit  of  Landlord's  books and records
regarding  such  Operating  Expenses  to  confirm  the  accuracy of Landlord's
accounting;  provided,  however,  that  such  audit  shall  not  unreasonably
interfere  with  the  conduct  of  Landlord's  business.
     5.5.       LATE CHARGES.  Tenant acknowledges that late payment by Tenant
to  Landlord of Base Rent or Additional Rent due hereunder will cause Landlord
to  incur  costs  not contemplated by this Lease, the exact amount of which is
extremely difficult to ascertain.  Such costs include, but are not limited to,
processing  and accounting charges, and late charges which may be imposed upon
Landlord by the terms of any mortgage or deed of trust covering the Premises. 
Therefore,  if any payment of Base Rent is not paid within five (5) days after
the  date  due,  Tenant  shall pay to Landlord ten percent (10%) of the amount
due;  and  if  Additional Rent is not paid within five (5) days after the date
due,  Tenant  shall pay to Landlord ten percent (10%) of the amount due or Two
Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00), whichever is greater; provided, however, that
for  the first such delinquency in any calendar year, the late charge will not
be  imposed  unless  and until the payment of Base Rent or Additional Rent has
not  been  paid  within five (5) days after written notice of delinquency from
Landlord.    The  parties  agree  that  such late charge represents a fair and
reasonable  estimate  of  the  costs that Landlord will incur by reason of the
late  payment  by Tenant.  The late charge shall be deemed Additional Rent and

- -8-


the right to require it shall be in addition to all of Landlord's other rights
and  remedies  hereunder  or  at  law  and  shall not be construed as limiting
Landlord's  remedies  in  any  manner.
6.          SECURITY  DEPOSIT.
     Tenant shall pay has paid to Landlord, immediately upon execution of this
Lease,  a  security deposit in the amount set forth at Section 1.10 ("SECURITY
DEPOSIT").  The Security Deposit shall be held by Landlord as security for the
faithful  performance  by Tenant of all of the terms, covenants and conditions
of  this  Lease  to  be kept and performed by Tenant.  If Tenant defaults with
respect  to  any  provision  of this Lease, including, but not limited to, the
provisions  relating  to  the  payment of rent, Landlord may (but shall not be
required  to) use, apply or retain all or any part of the Security Deposit for
the payment of any rent or any other sum in default, or for the payment of any
other  amount  which Landlord may spend or become obligated to spend by reason
of  Tenant's  default  or  to compensate Landlord for any other loss or damage
which  Landlord  may  suffer by reason of Tenant's default.  If any portion of
the  Security  Deposit  is  so  used  or  applied,  Tenant  shall, upon demand
therefor,  deliver  cash  to  Landlord  in an amount sufficient to restore the
Security  Deposit  to its original amount, and Tenant's failure to do so shall
be  a  material  breach of this Lease.  Landlord shall not be required to keep
the  Security Deposit separate from its general funds, and Tenant shall not be
entitled  to  interest  thereon.  If Tenant shall fully and faithfully perform
every  provision  of this Lease to be performed by it, the Security Deposit or
any  balance  thereof shall be returned to Tenant (or at Landlord's option, to
the  last  assignee  of Tenant's interests hereunder) at the expiration of the
Term,  provided  that Landlord may retain the Security Deposit until such time
as any amount due from Tenant under this Lease has been determined and paid in
full.
7.          USE.
     7.1.     PERMITTED USE.  The Premises shall be used and occupied only for
the  purposes and activities set forth in Section 1.13 above, and for no other
uses  or  purposes whatsoever.  If any governmental license or permit shall be
required  for  the  proper  and  lawful  conduct of Tenant's business or other
activity carried on in the Premises, or if a failure to procure such a license
or permit might or would in any way affect Landlord or the Business Park, then
Tenant,  at  Tenant's  expense, shall (i) duly procure and thereafter maintain
such  license  or  permit  and submit the same for inspection by Landlord, and
(ii)  at  all  times,  comply  with  the  requirements of each such license or
permit.
7.2.          CONDITION OF PREMISES.  Landlord warrants to Tenant, but without
regard either to any Tenant's Work or to the use for which Tenant will use the
Premises, that as of the date of Delivery of the Premises, the Premises do not
violate  the  Declaration  or any other covenants or restrictions of record or
any applicable building code, regulation or ordinance in effect on the date of
this  Lease.  In the event it should be determined that this warranty has been
violated,  then  after written notice from Tenant, Landlord shall promptly, at
its  sole  cost  and expense, rectify any such violation.  In the event Tenant
does  not  give Landlord any such written notice of violation within three (3)
months  after  the  Commencement  Date, the correction of such violation shall
thereafter  be  Tenant's obligation, to be performed at Tenant's sole cost and
expense.    The foregoing warranty shall be of no force or effect if, prior to
the  date  of this Lease, Tenant was the owner or occupant of the Premises, in
which  event  Tenant  shall  correct any such violation whenever determined to
exist,  at  Tenant's  sole  cost  and  expense.
7.3.       COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS.  Subject to Section 7.2 above, Tenant
shall,  at  Tenant's  expense,  promptly  comply with all applicable statutes,
ordinances,  rules,  regulations,  applicable  covenants  and  restrictions of
record, and requirements of any fire insurance underwriters of rating bureaus,
now in effect or which may hereafter come into effect during the Term, whether
or not they reflect a change in policy from that now existing, relating in any
manner  to the Premises and the occupation and use by Tenant of the Premises. 
Tenant shall not use or permit the use of the Premises in any manner that will
tend to create waste or a nuisance or shall tend to disturb other occupants of
the  Business  Park.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Tenant
shall,  at  its  sole  cost  and  expense,  comply promptly with all Hazardous
Materials  Laws  and  with all environmental laws and ordinances applicable to
the  conduct of Tenant's business, including all air quality and air pollution
regulations of the regional air pollution control district.  If at any time it
reasonably  appears  to Landlord that Tenant is not fulfilling its obligations
under this Section, Landlord may cause to be performed, at Tenant's sole cost,

- -9-


an  audit  or  inspection  of  the  Premises  to  evaluate Tenant's compliance
herewith.
7.4.          COMPLIANCE WITH AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.  Landlord shall
ensure  that  as of the date of this lease, the design and construction of the
Building,  the  Premises and any Common Areas are in compliance with Title III
of  the  Americans With Disabilities Act ("ADA") and other applicable laws and
regulations  that  relate  to  access  by the disabled or handicapped.  Tenant
shall  be  responsible  for  compliance with the ADA and related statutes with
respect  to  any alterations or improvements to the Premises and the operation
of  any  businesses  conducted  from  the  Premises;  Landlord  shall  have no
responsibility or liability with respect thereto.  In the event of any changes
to  the  ADA  or  other  applicable  statutes,  or  any  rules  or regulations
promulgated  pursuant  thereto,  that  become effective after the date of this
Lease,  Tenant  shall  be  responsible, at its sole expense, for any necessary
alterations or improvements to the Premises, and Landlord shall be responsible
for  any  necessary  alterations or improvements to the Building or any Common
Areas;  provided,  however,  that  Landlord's  costs  and expenses incurred in
connection  with  any  such  alterations or improvements shall be conclusively
deemed  to  be  Operating Expenses, notwithstanding the classification of such
costs  and  expenses  as  capital  items in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  practice;  provided,  however,  that Landlord shall not include in
Operating  Expenses  amortization  of  any  ADA  cost  incurred  solely  for
improvements to the leased Premises or another tenant in the Business Park and
not  part  of  a  more  general  program  of  compliance with amendments to or
subsequent  regulations  issued  under  the  ADA.
7.5.         RULES AND REGULATIONS.  Tenant shall at all times comply with the
Declaration  and with the rules and regulations for the Business Park.  A copy
of  the  rules  and  regulations  in  existence  on  the date of this Lease is
attached  hereto  as  Exhibit  C, but Landlord reserves the right to amend the
rules  and regulations at any time by giving notice of amendment to Tenant, if
Landlord  determines  such  amendments  to  be  to  the  best interests of the
Building and its tenants.  Tenant shall not be bound by any such amended rules
and  regulations  until  Tenant has received a written copy thereof.  Landlord
agrees  that  the  rules  and  regulations  shall be enforced in a uniform and
non-discriminatory  manner;  provided,  however,  that  Landlord  shall not be
liable  to  Tenant for Landlord's failure to enforce the rules and regulations
against  any  other  tenants  of  the  Project.
8.          MAINTENANCE,  REPAIRS  AND  ALTERATIONS.
     8.1.          TENANT'S  OBLIGATIONS.
     (a)     Tenant shall keep and maintain in good, sanitary order, condition
and  repair  (including  replacement  of parts and equipment if necessary) the
Premises and every part thereof and any and all appurtenances thereto wherever
located,  including, without limitation, the interior surfaces of the exterior
wall,  the  exterior  and  interior  portion  of  all doors, door frames, door
checks,  windows (including window sashes, casements and frames), plate glass,
storefront,  Tenant's  signs,  all  plumbing  and sewage facilities within the
Premises  (including  free  flow up to the main sewer line), fixtures, heating
and air conditioning (subject to (b) below) and electrical systems (whether or
not  located  in  the  Premises),  fire  sprinkler  system,  walls,  floor and
ceilings,  and  all  other  repairs,  replacements, renewals and restorations,
interior  and  exterior,  ordinary and extraordinary, foreseen and unforeseen,
and  all  other  work  performed, and additions, alterations, and improvements
installed  by  or  on  behalf  of  Tenant.  Any glass broken shall promptly be
replaced  by  Tenant with glass of the same quality, size and kind.  If Tenant
shall  fail  to replace same within seventy-two (72) hours after such glass is
broken,  Landlord shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, to replace
such  glass,  in  which  event  Tenant shall, promptly upon demand therefor by
Landlord,  reimburse  Landlord for expenses incurred by Landlord in connection
therewith.
(b)          Landlord  herein  elects  to  maintain  the HVAC system through a
maintenance  contract  which  will  be  procured  by  Landlord.   Tenant shall
reimburse  Landlord,  upon demand and as Additional Rent, for Landlord's costs
thereof.    The  parties  acknowledge  that  through  the Initial Term and any
Extension  Term,  Tenant  shall  be  responsible  for payment to Landlord upon
demand  and  as Additional Rent, of any part or component that may need repair
or  replacement  for  the  HVAC  System(s)  which  serve  only  the  Premises.

- -10-


(c)     Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, comply with all laws,
rules,  orders,  ordinances, directions, regulations and legal requirements of
federal,  state, county or municipal governmental authorities now or hereafter
affecting  or  applying  to  the  Premises, including, without limitation, the
Americans  With  Disabilities Act.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any such
laws,  ordinances,  regulations or orders shall require structural alterations
to  be  made  to the Building (such as the installation of sprinklers), and if
such  alterations are required generally in all warehouse/industrial buildings
in  San  Diego  and  are  not  required  as a result of the specific nature of
Tenant's  design,  layout,  configuration  or use of the Premises or caused by
Tenant  or  any  of its employees, agents, contractors or subtenant's, then it
shall  be  Landlord's  responsibility to make such structural alterations.  If
the  law,  ordinances, regulation or order requiring the structural alteration
was  adopted  or  became  effective  after  the  date  of  this  Lease,  then
amortization,  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted accounting principles
consistently applied, of Landlord's costs and expenses incurred in making such
structural  alterations,  together  with  interest  incurred  by  Landlord  in
connection  therewith,  shall  be  included within Operating Expenses.  If the
structural  alteration  was  required by a law, ordinance, regulation or order
that was adopted and became effective prior to the date of this Lease, then no
such amortization shall be permitted, and Landlord shall be solely responsible
for  the  costs  and  expenses  associated  therewith.
     8.2.        CONDITION ON TERMINATION.  On the last day of the Term, or on
any sooner termination, Tenant shall surrender the Premises to Landlord in the
same condition as received, ordinary wear and tear excepted, clean and free of
debris.    Any  damage  or  deterioration  of the Premises shall not be deemed
ordinary  wear  and  tear  if  the  same  could  have  been  prevented by good
maintenance  practices.    Tenant  shall  repair  any  damage  to the Premises
occasioned  by  the  installation  or  removal  of  Tenant's  trade  fixtures,
alterations,  furnishings  and equipment, and shall leave all air lines, power
panels,  electrical  distribution  systems,  lighting  fixtures, HVAC systems,
plumbing  and  fencing  in  good  operating  condition.
8.3.       LANDLORD'S RIGHTS.  If Tenant fails to perform Tenant's obligations
under  Section 8.1 or 8.2 or under any other provision of this Lease, Landlord
may  enter  the  Premises after three (3) days' prior written notice to Tenant
(except  in  the case of emergency, in which case no notice shall be required)
and  perform  such obligations on Tenant's behalf and put the Premises in good
order,  condition  and  repair,  and  the  cost thereof together with interest
thereon  from  the date incurred at the maximum rate then allowed by law shall
be  due and payable as Additional Rent to Landlord together with Tenant's next
Base  Rent  installment.
8.4.      LANDLORD'S OBLIGATIONS.  Except for any Landlord's Work as set forth
in  Exhibit B, and Sections 13 and 14 relating to damage and condemnation, and
the  provisions  in this Section 8.4 below which relate solely to multi-tenant
buildings,  the  parties  intend  that  Landlord  shall  have  no  obligation
whatsoever  to  repair  and  maintain  the  Premises or the equipment therein,
whether  structural  or  non-structural, all of which the parties intend to be
obligations  of  Tenant  pursuant  to  this  Section  8.   Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of Paragraphs 8.1 to 8.4, Landlord and Tenant acknowledge
that  Landlord  shall  keep  in  good  condition  and  repair the foundations,
exterior  walls,  structural  condition of interior bearing walls, and roof of
the Building, as well as the Common Areas, and all costs and expenses incurred
by  Landlord  in  connection  therewith  shall  be  included  within Operating
Expenses.    Landlord  shall  have  no  obligation  to make repairs under this
Section until a reasonable time after receipt of written notice from Tenant of
the  need  for  such  repairs.
8.5.        WAIVER.  Tenant expressly waives all rights to make repairs at the
expense of Landlord or deduct any amounts from rent as provided in any statute
or law in effect during the Term of this Lease, including its rights under the
provisions  of    1941 and  1942 of the Civil Code of the State of California.
8.6.          ALTERATION  AND  ADDITIONS.
     (a)      Tenant shall not, without Landlord's prior written consent which
shall  not  be  unreasonably  withheld,  make  any  alterations, improvements,
additions,  or  Utility  Installations  in,  to or about the Premises.  Tenant
shall  make  no  change  or alteration to the exterior of the Building without
Landlord's prior written consent, which consent may be withheld for any reason
in  Landlord's  sole  discretion  and  which  may  at Landlord's discretion be
conditioned  upon  Tenant's  providing  Landlord,  at  Tenant's  sole cost and

- -11-


expense,  a lien and completion bond in an amount equal to one and one-half (1
1/2)  times  the  cost  of  the  work;  provided however, that Tenant shall be
entitled  to  perform alterations with a total cost of less than $5,000, which
do  not affect the Building's structure or mechanical or electrical systems or
require  issuance of a permit by the City of San Diego, upon written notice to
but  without  obtaining  the  prior  approval  of  Landlord.   As used in this
Section,  the  term  "UTILITY  INSTALLATIONS"  shall  mean  carpeting,  window
coverings,  air lines, power panels, electrical distribution systems, lighting
fixtures, space heaters, air conditioning, plumbing and fencing.  Landlord may
require  that  Tenant  remove  at  the  expiration  of  the  Term  any  or all
alterations,  improvements,  additions or Utility Installations which were not
part  of  the  original  Tenant Improvements, and restore the Premises and the
Common  Areas  to  their prior condition; provided, however, that Tenant shall
not  be  obligated  to remove any such alterations, improvements, additions or
Utility  Installations that were affirmatively approved in advance by Landlord
unless Landlord so advised Tenant at the time of approval.  Should Tenant make
any  alterations, improvements, additions or Utility Installations without the
prior  approval  of  Landlord,  for  which  Landlord's approval or consent was
required  hereunder,  Landlord may, at any time during the Term of this lease,
require  that  Tenant  remove  any  or  all  of  the  same.
(b)     Except for improvements to be accomplished by Landlord at its expense,
if  any,  Tenant  shall  pay,  when  due,  all  claims  for labor or materials
furnished  or alleged to have been furnished to or for Tenant at or for use in
the  Premises,  which  claims  are  or  may  be  secured  by any mechanic's or
materialmen's lien against the Building or any interest therein.  Tenant shall
give  Landlord not less than ten days' notice prior to the commencement of any
work  in  the  Premises,  and Landlord shall have the right to post notices of
non-responsibility  in or on the Premises or the Building as provided by law. 
If  Tenant  shall, in good faith, contest the validity of any such lien, claim
or  demand, then Tenant shall, at its sole expense, defend itself and Landlord
against  the  same  and shall pay and satisfy any adverse judgment that may be
rendered  thereon  before  the enforcement thereof against the Landlord or the
Building,  upon  the  condition  that  if Landlord shall require, Tenant shall
furnish  to Landlord a surety bond satisfactory to Landlord in an amount equal
to  one  and  one-half  (1  ) times the amount of such contested lien claim or
demand, indemnifying Landlord against liability for such claim or lien and for
all  costs  of  defense  thereof, of obtaining the release of any lien, and of
making  the Building free from the effect of such lien or claim.  In addition,
Landlord  may  require  Tenant  to pay Landlord's attorneys' fees and costs in
participating in such action if Landlord shall decide it is in Landlord's best
interest to do so.  In any event, Landlord may pay the lien claim prior to the
enforcement  thereof,  in which event Tenant shall reimburse Landlord in full,
including  attorneys'  fees for any such expense, as Additional Rent, with the
next  due  rents.
(c)         All alterations, improvements, additions and Utility Installations
(exclusive of all trade fixtures of Tenant) which may be made on the Premises,
shall  be  the  property  of Landlord and shall remain upon and be surrendered
with  the  Premises  at  the  expiration  of  the  Lease term, unless Landlord
requires  their  removal.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8.6,
Tenant's  machinery  and  equipment  (other than Utility Installations), other
than  that  which  is  affixed  to  the  Premises so that it cannot be removed
without  material  damage  to  the  Premises or the Building, shall remain the
property  of  Tenant and may be removed by Tenant subject to the provisions of
Section  8.2.
9.          TAXES
     9.1.     REAL PROPERTY TAXES.  Landlord shall pay all Real Property Taxes
with  respect  to  the  Building  and  the Project, which shall be included in
Operating  Expenses.    If  the  Premises are separately assessed, or included
within  an  assessor's  parcel  that  does  not  encompass the entire Project,
Landlord  shall  adjust  Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses as it relates to
Real  Property  Taxes,  to  reflect  the  proportion  between  the area of the
Premises  and  the  total  area  of  the  assessor's  parcel  encompassing the
Premises.
9.2.       PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES.  Tenant shall pay prior to delinquency all
taxes  assessed against and levied upon trade fixtures, furnishings, equipment
and  all  other  personal  property  of  Tenant  contained  in the Premises or
elsewhere.    When  possible,  Tenant  shall  cause  said  trade  fixtures,
furnishings,  equipment  and  all  other  personal property to be assessed and
billed separately from the real property of Landlord.  If any of Tenant's said
personal  property  shall  be  assessed  with Landlord's real property, Tenant
shall pay to Landlord the taxes attributable to Tenant within ten days after a

- -12-


receipt  of a written statement setting forth the taxes applicable to Tenant's
property.
10.          UTILITIES.
     Tenant  shall  be  solely  responsible  for, shall arrange for, and shall
promptly pay all charges, including meter and connection fees, for water, gas,
electricity,  sewer,  and  any  other  utility  used  upon or furnished to the
Premises.    In  the  event any such utility is not separately metered, Tenant
shall  pay its share of the cost thereof, as equitably determined by Landlord,
as  Additional  Rent,  as  part of Operating Expenses.  In this regard, Tenant
acknowledges  and  agrees  that  if  Tenant's use of the Premises results in a
disproportionately  heavy  use  of  water or other commonly metered utilities,
then  Landlord,  at  Landlord's  discretion, and in a reasonable and equitable
manner,  may  adjust  Tenant's  Share  of  Operating  Expenses to reflect such
disproportionately  heavy  use.    Landlord does not warrant that any services
Landlord  supplies  will  not  be  interrupted,  e.g.,  because  of accidents,
repairs, alterations, improvements or any reason beyond the reasonable control
of  Landlord  and  no  such interruption not caused by Landlord shall:  (i) be
considered  an  eviction  or disturbance of Tenant's use and possession of the
Premises;  (ii)  entitle  Tenant  to terminate this Lease; (iii) make Landlord
liable  to  Tenant  for  damages; (iv) abate Base Rent, Additional Rent or any
other  sums  due  hereunder;  or  (v)  relieve  Tenant  from  performing  its
obligations  hereunder.
11.          INSURANCE.
     11.1.          LIABILITY  INSURANCE-TENANT.   Prior to the earlier of the
Commencement  Date  or  Tenant's occupancy of the Premises, Tenant, at its own
expense,  shall  obtain from and shall thereafter keep in force with companies
reasonably  acceptable  to  Landlord,  commercial  general liability insurance
applying  to  the  use  and  occupancy  of the Premises, or any areas adjacent
thereto,  and  the  business  operated  by Tenant or any other occupant on the
Premises.    Such  insurance  shall:  include broad form contractual liability
insurance coverage specifically insuring all of Tenant's indemnity obligations
under  this  Lease; have a minimum combined single limit liability of at least
$2,000,000;  be  written  to  apply  to  all  bodily  injury, property damage,
personal  injury  and other covered loss, however occasioned, occurring during
the  policy  term;  contain  endorsements  deleting  any employee exclusion on
personal  injury coverage; include products and completed operations coverage;
provide  for  severability  of  interests  or  a  cross-liability provision or
endorsement;  be endorsed to delete any liquor liability exclusion; and afford
coverage  for  all  claims  based on acts, omissions, injury and damage, which
claims occurred or arose (or the onset of which occurred or arose) in whole or
in  part  during  the  policy period.  The foregoing policy of insurance shall
name  Landlord  and any parties designated by Landlord as additional insureds,
and  shall  include a per-location endorsement, Form C62504 or equivalent.  In
addition, Tenant shall maintain non-owned automobile liability insurance.  The
policy  limits  herein  specified  shall  be  increased from time to time upon
written  demand  from  Landlord,  if  circumstances  reasonably  justify  such
increases.  Tenant shall furnish Landlord with a certificate of such insurance
within  thirty  days  after the Commencement Date and whenever requested shall
satisfy  Landlord  that  such  policy is in full force and effect.  The policy
shall  be  endorsed  to  provide  that  its  coverage  shall  be  primary  and
noncontributing  with  any insurance carried by Landlord, and shall be further
endorsed  to  provide  that it shall not be canceled or altered without thirty
days'  prior  written  notice  to  Landlord.
11.2.         LIABILITY INSURANCE-LANDLORD.  Landlord shall obtain and keep in
force during the Term commercial general liability insurance, insuring against
liability  for injury to or death of persons and loss of or damage to property
occurring  in or on the Common Areas.  Landlord's liability insurance shall be
in amount of not less than $2,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence for
bodily  and  personal  injury  and  property  damage.
11.3.          PROPERTY  INSURANCE-LANDLORD.
     (a)       Landlord shall maintain in full force and effect at all times a
standard  policy or policies insuring against "all risk" perils (also known as
"special  perils")  covering  the  Building  and  other  improvements owned by
Landlord  in  the  Business Park in an amount at least sufficient to avoid the
effects  of  coinsurance  provisions of the policy or policies (i.e., not less
than  ninety  percent [90%] of the actual replacement cost of the Building and
other  improvements,  without  deduction  for  depreciation  and  excluding
foundations,  excavation  costs  and  the cost of underground flues, pipes and
drains, if such costs are properly excludable under coinsurance requirements).

- -13-


 Such  insurance  shall  include  (i) a standard form of lender's loss payable
endorsement,  issued  to  the holder or holders of a mortgage or deed of trust
secured  in  whole  or in part by the Building and the other property on which
the insured improvements are located; (ii) at Landlord's sole option, coverage
for  flood  or  earthquake or both; and (iii) rental income insurance equal to
Base  Rent  and  Operating Expenses for up to one year.  In addition, Landlord
shall  obtain  and  keep  in  force  during  the  Term such other insurance as
Landlord  deems  advisable.
(b)         Tenant shall pay for any increase in the property insurance of the
Building  or  such  other  building  or buildings if the increase is caused by
Tenant's  acts, omissions, use or occupancy of the Premises.  Tenant shall not
do or permit to be done anything which shall invalidate the insurance policies
referred  to  in  this  Section  11.3.    If Tenant does or permits to be done
anything  which  shall increase the cost of the insurance policies referred to
in  this  Section 11.3, then Tenant shall within thirty (30) days after demand
therefor  by  Landlord  reimburse  Landlord  for  any  additional  premiums
attributable  to  any  act  or  omission  or  operation of Tenant causing such
increase in the cost of insurance.  Landlord shall deliver to Tenant a written
statement  setting  forth  the  amount of any such insurance cost increase and
showing  in  reasonable  detail  the  manner  in  which  it has been computed.
     11.4.          PROPERTY INSURANCE-TENANT.  Tenant shall pay for and shall
maintain  in  full  force  and effect at all times, a standard policy insuring
against  "all  risk"  perils  (also  known  as "special perils"), covering all
exterior  glass,  whether plate or otherwise, and all interior glass, stock in
trade,  merchandise,  trade  fixtures,  equipment  and other personal property
located  in  the Premises and used by Tenant in connection with its business. 
Tenant shall furnish Landlord with a duly executed certificate evidencing such
coverage  at  the  commencement of the Term and not less than thirty (30) days
before  the  expiration  of  the  term  of  such  coverage.
11.5.          INSURANCE  POLICIES.    Each policy of insurance required to be
maintained  by  Tenant hereunder shall name Landlord, and any other parties in
interest  designated  by  Landlord, as additional insureds and shall contain a
clause that the insurer will not cancel or change such insurance without first
giving Landlord thirty (30) days' prior written notice.  Such insurance may be
furnished by Tenant under any blanket policy carried by it or under a separate
policy  therefor;  provided  that  such  blanket  policy  shall  contain  an
endorsement  that names Landlord (and any other parties in interest designated
by  Landlord) as an additional insured, references the Premises and guarantees
that  a  minimum  limit  equal to the insurance amounts required in this Lease
will  be available specifically for the Premises.  All insurance shall be with
a good and solvent insurance company authorized to do business in the State in
which  the  Business  Park  is  located, having a minimum rating of A and X in
Best's  Insurance  Guide.    A  copy  of  the paid-up policy or other evidence
reasonably  satisfactory  to  Landlord shall be delivered to Landlord prior to
the  Term  Commencement  Date and not less than thirty (30) days prior to each
renewal  or  extension  of such policy of insurance.  In the event that Tenant
shall  deliver  a  certificate  of insurance in lieu of a copy of the paid-off
insurance  policy  at  any  time during the Term of this Lease, a copy of such
insurance  policy  shall  be  provided  to  Landlord  as  soon  thereafter  as
practicable.    No  policy of insurance under this Section shall provide for a
deductible  in  excess of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000), provided that Tenant
shall  remain  obligated  for the insurance deductible.  All public liability,
property  damage or casualty policies and the coverage evidenced thereby shall
be  primary  with respect to any policies carried by Landlord and any coverage
carried  by  Landlord  shall  pay only amounts in excess of the limits in said
policies  of  Tenant.  In addition to the foregoing, in the event Tenant fails
to  provide  to  keep  in force any of the insurance required pursuant to this
Section  11,  then  Landlord, in its discretion and without waiving any of its
rights  under  this Lease, may provide such insurance, in which event the cost
thereof shall be payable by Tenant to Landlord as Additional Rent on the first
day of the calendar month immediately following demand therefor from Landlord.
11.6.      WAIVER OF SUBROGATION.  Each party hereby waives any and all rights
of  recovery  against  the  other  party  hereto  and  its  officers,  agents,
employees, or representatives, and Tenant hereby waives any rights it may have
against  any  trust  deed  holder, for the loss, damage, or injury to property
arising  from any event which is covered by insurance against fire, vandalism,
malicious  mischief,  and extended coverage, and such other perils as are from
time  to  time  included  in  the  "all risk" insurance policy(ies) carried by

- -14-


Landlord  and  Tenant  pursuant  to this Section 11, provided that such waiver
shall apply only to the extent of any recovery by the injured party under such
insurance.    In  the  event  the  other  party  is  a self-insurer (as may be
permitted  herein),  such  waiver  shall  be  to  the  limit of that insurance
required  to  be  carried  hereunder.    Each  party  hereto, on behalf of its
respective  insurance  companies  hereby waives, to the extent of any recovery
under  any such insurance policies, any right of subrogation that one may have
against  the  other,  and Tenant, on behalf of its insurance companies, hereby
waives  any right of subrogation which such insurer may have against any trust
deed  holder.  Each party hereto shall cause its respective insurance policies
to contain endorsements evidencing such waivers of subrogation.  The foregoing
releases  and  waivers  of subrogation shall be operative only so long as same
shall  neither  preclude  the  obtaining  of insurance nor diminish, reduce or
impair  the  liability  of  any  insurer.    In  the  event  that  a waiver of
subrogation  cannot be obtained, the other party is relieved of the obligation
to  obtain  a  waiver  of  subrogation  rights  with respect to the particular
insurance  involved.
12.          WAIVER  AND  INDEMNITY.
     12.1.     WAIVER AND EXEMPTION OF LANDLORD FROM LIABILITY.  Tenant hereby
agrees  that except for damage or injury resulting from Landlord's sole active
negligence  or  willful misconduct, Landlord shall not be liable for injury to
Tenant's business or any loss of income, including damage to the goods, wares,
merchandise  or  other  property of Tenant or of Tenant's employees, invitees,
customers, or any other person in or about the Premises, or the Common Areas. 
Landlord  shall not be liable, except when the damage or injury is a result of
Landlord's  sole  active  negligence  or willful misconduct, for injury to the
person  of  Tenant,  Tenant's  employees,  agents or contractors, whether such
damage  or  injury is caused by or results from fire, steam, electricity, gas,
water  or rain, or from the breakage, leakage, obstruction or other defects of
pipes,  sprinklers,  wires, appliances, plumbing, air conditioning or lighting
fixtures  or  from any other cause, whether said damage or injury results from
conditions  arising  upon  the  Premises,  or  the  Common Areas or from other
sources or places and regardless of whether the cause of such damage or injury
or  the means of repairing the same is inaccessible to Tenant.  Landlord shall
not  be  liable  for  any damages arising from any act or neglect of any other
tenant,  occupant  or use of the Business Park or from the failure of Landlord
to enforce the provisions of any other lease in the Business Park.  Tenant, as
a  material  part of the consideration to Landlord, hereby assumes all risk of
damage  to  property  of  Tenant  or  injury to persons, in, upon or about the
Premises  and elsewhere arising from the above or any other causes, and Tenant
hereby  waives  all  claims  in  respect  thereof  against  Landlord.
12.2.        TENANT'S INDEMNITY.  Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend, and
hold  Landlord  and  Landlord's  officers,  directors,  employees  and  agents
(collectively,  "REPRESENTATIVES")  harmless  from  and  against  any  and all
claims,  actions,  demands, proceedings, losses, damages, costs of any kind or
character  (including  reasonable  attorneys' fees and court costs), expenses,
liabilities,  judgments,  fines,  penalties,  or  interest  (collectively,
"LOSSES"),  arising  from  or out of Tenant's use of the Premises, or from the
conduct  of  Tenant's  business  or  from  any  activity, work or things done,
permitted or suffered by Tenant in or about the Premises or elsewhere.  Tenant
shall  also  indemnify,  protect,  defend,  and  hold  Landlord and Landlord's
representatives  harmless from and against any and all Losses arising from any
breach  or default in the performance of any obligation on Tenant's part to be
performed  under  the terms of this Lease, or arising from any act or omission
of  Tenant, or any of Tenant's agents, contractors, or employees, and from and
against  all  costs,  attorneys'  fees,  expenses  and  liabilities reasonably
incurred  in the defense of any such claim or any action or proceeding brought
thereon;  and  in case any action or proceeding be brought against Landlord or
any  of  Landlord's  representatives  by reason of any such claim, Tenant upon
notice  from  Landlord  shall  defend  the same at Tenant's expense by counsel
reasonably  satisfactory  to Landlord and Landlord shall cooperate with Tenant
in such defense.  Neither termination of this Lease nor completion of the acts
to  be performed under this Lease shall release Tenant from its obligations to
defend  or  indemnify Landlord as required hereunder so long as the event upon
which  any  such Loss is predicated shall have occurred prior to the effective
date  of  any  such  termination  or  completion.
12.3.         LANDLORD'S INDEMNITY.  Landlord shall defend, indemnify and hold
Tenant  and  Tenant's  representatives  harmless  from and against any and all
Losses  arising  in  any  way  from  (i) the sole active negligence or willful
misconduct  of  Landlord;  or (ii) any breach or default in the performance of

- -15-


any  obligation on Landlord's part to be performed under this Lease.  Landlord
shall  defend  any  such  action  or  proceeding brought against Tenant or its
representatives  at Landlord's expense with counsel reasonably satisfactory to
Tenant.    Neither  termination of this Lease nor completion of the acts to be
performed  under  this  Lease  shall  release Landlord from its obligations to
defend  or  indemnify  Tenant  as required hereunder so long as the event upon
which  any  such Loss is predicated shall have occurred prior to the effective
date  of  any  such  termination  or  completion.
13.          DAMAGE  AND  DESTRUCTION.
     13.1          DEFINITIONS.
     (a)          "PARTIAL  DAMAGE"  shall mean if the Premises are damaged or
destroyed  to  the  extent  that the cost of repair is less than fifty percent
(50%)  of  the  then  replacement  cost  of  the  Premises.
(b)          "TOTAL  DESTRUCTION"  shall  mean  if the Premises are damaged or
destroyed to the extent that the cost of repair is fifty percent (50%) or more
of  the  then  replacement  cost  of  the  Premises.
(c)       "INSURED LOSS" shall mean damage or destruction which was covered by
an  event  required to be covered by the insurance described in Section 11.3. 
The  fact that an insured Loss has a deductible amount shall not make the loss
an  uninsured  loss.
(d)          "REPLACEMENT COST" shall mean the amount of money necessary to be
spent  in  order  to  repair or rebuild the damaged area to the condition that
existed  immediately prior to the damage occurring, excluding all improvements
made  by  tenants.
     13.2          PARTIAL  DAMAGE.
     (a)         Insured Loss:  Subject to the provisions of Sections 11.4 and
11.5,  if at any time during the Term there is damage which is an Insured Loss
and  which  falls  into  the  classification  of Partial Damage, then Landlord
shall,  at  Landlord's  expense,  repair  such damage to the Premises, but not
Tenant's  fixtures or equipment, as soon as reasonably possible and this Lease
shall continue in full force and effect.  In no event, however, shall Landlord
be  obligated  to  spend  for  such  repairs more than the amount of available
insurance  proceeds,  plus  the  amount of any deductible elected by Landlord.
(b)      Uninsured Loss:  Subject to the provisions of Sections 11.4 and 11.5,
if  at  any  time during the Term there is damage which is not an Insured Loss
and  which falls within the classification of Partial Damage, unless caused by
a  negligent  or  willful  act of Tenant (in which event Tenant shall make the
repairs  at  Tenant's  expense),  which damage causes substantial interference
with  the  normal  conduct  of  Tenant's business.  Landlord may at Landlord's
option  either  (i)  repair  such  damage  as  soon  as reasonably possible at
Landlord's expense, in which event this Lease shall continue in full force and
effect,  or  (ii)  give  written notice to Tenant within thirty days after the
date  of  the  occurrence of such damage of Landlord's intention to cancel and
terminate  this Lease as of the date of the occurrence of such damage.  In the
event  Landlord  elects  to give such notice of Landlord's intention to cancel
and  terminate  this  Lease, Tenant shall have the right within ten days after
the  receipt  of  such  notice  to give written notice to Landlord of Tenant's
intention  to  repair  such  damage at Tenant's expense, without reimbursement
from  Landlord,  in  which  event  this Lease shall continue in full force and
effect,  and  Tenant  shall proceed to make such repairs as soon as reasonably
possible.  If Tenant does not give such notice within such ten-day period this
Lease  shall  be  canceled  and terminated as of the date of the occurrence of
such  damage.
     13.3       TOTAL DESTRUCTION.  Subject to the provisions of Sections 11.4
and 11.5, if at any time during the Term there is damage, whether or not it is
an  Insured  Loss,  which  falls into the classification of Total Destruction,
then  Landlord  may  at  Landlord's  option  either  (i) repair such damage or
destruction,  but  not  Tenant's  fixtures,  equipment  or tenant improvements
(except  for  tenant improvements initially constructed at the commencement of
the  Term),  as  soon  as  reasonably possible at Landlord's expense, and this
Lease  shall continue in full force and effect, or (ii) give written notice to
Tenant  within  thirty  days  after  the  date of occurrence of such damage of

- -16-


Landlord's  intention  to  cancel and terminate this Lease, in which case this
Lease  shall  be  canceled  and terminated as of the date of the occurrence of
such  damage.
13.4        DAMAGE NEAR END OF TERM.  Subject to the following sentence, if at
any  time during the last year of the Term of this Lease as extended form time
to  time  there  is  substantial damage, whether or not an Insured Loss, which
falls  within the classification of Partial Damage, Landlord may at its option
cancel and terminate this Lease as of the date of occurrence of such damage by
giving  written  notice  to  Tenant,  within  thirty  days  after  the date of
occurrence  of  such  damage,  of  Landlord's  election  to  terminate.  
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  in  the  event  that Tenant has an option to
extend  or  renew  this  Lease,  and  the time within which said option may be
exercised  has not yet expired, Tenant shall exercise such option, if it is to
be  exercised  at  all,  no  later than thirty days after the occurrence of an
Insured  Loss  falling  within the classification of Partial Damage during the
last year of the Term.  If Tenant duly exercises such option during the thirty
day period, Landlord shall, at Landlord's expense, repair such damage, but not
Tenant's  fixtures,  equipment  or  tenant improvements, as soon as reasonably
possible  and  this  Lease  shall continue in full force and effect; provided,
however,  that  in  no  event  shall  Landlord  be obligated to spend for such
repairs  more than the amount of available insurance proceeds, plus the amount
of  any  deductible  elected  by  Landlord.   If Tenant fails to exercise such
option  during  the  thirty-day period, then Landlord may at Landlord's option
terminate  and  cancel  this  Lease  as  of the date of the occurrence of such
damage.
13.5         ABATEMENT OF RENT.  In the event Landlord repairs or restores the
Premises  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  this Section 13, the rent payable
hereunder  for  the  period  during  which  such damage, repair or restoration
continues shall be abated in proportion to the degree to which Tenant's normal
and  customary use of the Premises is impaired.  Except for abatement of rent,
if any, Tenant shall have no claim against Landlord for any damage suffered by
reason  of  any  such  damage,  destruction,  repair  or  restoration.
13.6.        WAIVER.  Landlord and Tenant waive the provisions of any statutes
which  relate  to  termination of leases when leased property is destroyed and
agree  that  such  event  shall  be  governed  by  the  terms  of  this Lease.
14.          CONDEMNATION.
     14.1.       TOTAL CONDEMNATION OF PREMISES.  If the whole of the Premises
shall  be  taken  by  any  public  authority  under condemnation, the power of
eminent  domain,  or  by  a  sale in lieu thereof under threat of condemnation
(collectively  "taking"  or  "taken"  as the case may be), then the Term shall
cease  as of the day of possession pursuant to such taking, and the Rent shall
be paid up to that day.  Landlord shall refund such rent as may have been paid
in  advance  for  the  period  subsequent  to  the  date  of  such possession.
     14.2.          PARTIAL  CONDEMNATION.
     (a)      If less than the whole but more than twenty percent (20%) of the
Premises  shall  be taken, Tenant shall have the right to terminate this Lease
or,  subject  to  Landlord's  right  of  termination  as  set forth in Section
14.2(b),  to continue in possession of the remainder of the Premises and shall
notify Landlord in writing within ten (10) days after notice of such taking of
Tenant's  intention.  If twenty percent (20%) or less of the Premises shall be
so taken, the Term shall cease with respect to the part so taken as of the day
possession  shall  be  taken, and Tenant shall pay rent up to that day for the
part  so  taken.
(b)      If more than twenty percent (20%) of the Building or more than twenty
percent  (20%)  of  the  Premises  shall  be taken, Landlord may, by notice to
Tenant delivered on or before the date surrendering possession, terminate this
Lease.
(c)       In the event this Lease is not so terminated, Tenant shall remain in
the  portion  of  the Premises not so taken, and all of the terms, provisions,
covenants,  conditions,  and  agreements  contained  herein  shall continue in
effect  with  respect to the portion not so taken, except that Base Rent shall
be  reduced  in  proportion  to the amount of the Premises taken, and Landlord
shall,  to  the extent of severance damages received by Landlord in connection
with  such  condemnation,  repair  any  damage  to the Premises caused by such
condemnation  except to the extent that Tenant has been reimbursed therefor by

- -17-


the  condemning  authority,  Tenant  shall  pay  any  amount in excess of such
severance  damages  required  to  complete  such  repair.
     14.3.       LANDLORD'S AND TENANT'S DAMAGES.  Any award for the taking of
all  or  any  part  of  the  Premises under the power of eminent domain or any
payment  made under threat of the exercise of such power shall be the property
of  Landlord,  whether such award shall be made as compensation for diminution
in  value  of  the  leasehold  or  for  the taking of the fee, or as severance
damages;  provided,  however,  that  Tenant shall be entitled to any award for
loss  of  or  damage  to  Tenant's  trade fixtures, moving costs and removable
personal  property  to  the  extent separately awarded.  Tenant shall have the
right  to  negotiate  its  award  separately  with  the  condemning authority;
provided,  however,  that  Tenant's  right  to  pursue  its  claim  shall  be
subordinate  to  the  right  of  Landlord's  first lien mortgage to the extent
required  to discharge the first lien mortgage after application of Landlord's
award.
14.4.      WAIVER.  This Article 14 is in lieu of, and Tenant hereby expressly
waives any rights it may have under, any statute governing the condemnation of
the  Premises,  including    1932  and  1933 of the California Civil Code and 
1265.130  of  the  California  Code  of  Civil  Procedure.
15.          ASSIGNMENT  AND  SUBLETTING.
     15.1.       LANDLORD'S CONSENT REQUIRED.  Tenant shall not voluntarily or
by  operation of law assign, transfer, mortgage, sublet, or otherwise transfer
or  encumber  all  or  any  part  of  Tenant's interest in the Lease or in the
Premises,  without  Landlord's  prior  written  consent,  which  shall  not be
unreasonably  withheld.    Any  attempted  assignment,  transfer,  mortgage,
encumbrance  or  sublease  without  such  consent  shall  be  void,  and shall
constitute  a  breach  of  this  Lease  without the need for notice to Tenant.
15.2.          PROCEDURE.   In the event Tenant wishes to sublet or assign the
Premises,  or  any portion thereof, Tenant shall submit in writing to Landlord
(i)  the  name  of  the  proposed  sublessee  or  assignee,  (ii)  a statement
describing  the nature of the business to be carried on in the Premises, (iii)
a  copy  of  the  proposed  sublease  or  assignment,  including all terms and
conditions  thereof,  (iv) Landlord's lease application form, completed by the
proposed  assignee  or  sublessee,  (v)  financial statements for the proposed
assignee  or sublessee, which shall include, at a minimum, prior year and year
to  date  (current  to  within  six months) balance sheets, income and expense
statements  and  sources  and  uses  of  cash  statements, and (vi) such other
financial  information  regarding such sublessee or assignee as Landlord shall
reasonably  request.
15.3.          PROVISIONS  APPLICABLE  TO  BOTH  ASSIGNMENT  AND  SUBLETTING.
     (a)        No sublessee or assignee shall further assign or sublet all or
any  part  of  the  Premises  without  Landlord's  prior  written  consent.
(b)          The  consent  by Landlord to any assignment or sublease shall not
constitute  a consent to any subsequent assignment or sublease by Tenant or to
any assignment or sublease by the sublessee.  However, Landlord may consent to
subsequent  subleases  and  assignments  of  the sublease or any amendments or
modifications thereto, provided Landlord notifies Tenant or anyone else liable
on  the  Lease  or  sublease  and Landlord shall obtain their consent thereto.
(c)       If Tenant subleases the Premises or any part of it or assigns any of
its rights under this Lease in and to the Premises, fifty percent (50%) of all
rents  paid  by the sublessee or assignee which are in excess of the amount of
Base Rent and Additional Rent then payable by Tenant under this Lease shall be
the  property of and shall be paid to Landlord.  As used herein, "excess" rent
shall mean the positive difference, if any, in any given month, resulting from
the  subtraction  of  (X) the sum of the Base Rent and Additional Rent paid by
Tenant  under  the  Lease,  from  (Y)  the  effective  rental rate paid by the
sublessee  or  assignee  over  the  entire term of the assignment or sublease,
reduced  by  the costs to Tenant of applicable leasing commissions, attorneys'
fees  and  tenant  improvement  or  relocation  expenses incurred by Tenant in
connection  therewith.    The  parties acknowledge that the provisions of this
Section  are  a material inducement for Landlord's execution of this Lease and
that  Tenant  has represented and warranted that its sole purpose for entering

- -18-


into  this  Lease  is to obtain possession of the Premises and not to generate
revenues  from  the  leasing  or  subleasing  of  any portion of the Premises.
(d)         In the event of any default under this Lease, Landlord may proceed
directly  against  Tenant,  any guarantors or any one else responsible for the
performance  of  this Lease, including the sublessee, without first exhausting
Landlord's remedies against any other person or entity responsible therefor to
Landlord,  or  any  security  held  by  Landlord  or  Tenant.
     15.4.      PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO SUBLETTING.  Regardless of Landlord's
consent,  the  following  terms  and conditions shall apply to any sublease by
Tenant  of all or any part of the Premises and shall be included in subleases.
     (a)       Tenant hereby assigns and transfers to Landlord all of Tenant's
interest  in  all rentals and income arising from any sublease made by Tenant,
and  Landlord  may  collect  such  rent  and  income and apply the same toward
Tenant's obligations under this Lease; provided, however, that until a default
shall  occur  in  the  performance  of  Tenant's obligations under this Lease,
Tenant may receive, collect and enjoy the rents accruing under such sublease. 
Landlord  shall  not, by reason of any assignment of such sublease to Landlord
or by reason of the collection of the rents from a sublessee, be deemed liable
to  the  sublessee for any failure of Tenant to perform and comply with any of
Tenant's  obligations  to  such  sublessee under such sublease.  Tenant hereby
irrevocably  authorizes  and  directs  any  such  sublessee, upon receipt of a
written  notice from Landlord stating that a default exists in the performance
of Tenant's obligations under this Lease, to pay to Landlord the rents due and
to  become  due  under  the sublease.  Tenant agrees that such sublessee shall
have  the right to rely upon any such statement and request from Landlord, and
that such sublessee shall pay such rents to Landlord without any obligation or
right  to  inquire  as  to whether such default exists and notwithstanding any
notice  from  or claim from Tenant to the contrary, Tenant shall have no right
or claim against such sublessee or Landlord for any such rents so paid by said
sublessee  to  Landlord.
(b)     No sublease entered into by Tenant shall be effective unless and until
it has been approved in writing by Landlord.  By entering into a sublease, any
sublessee  shall  be  deemed, for the benefit of Landlord, to have assumed and
agreed  to  comply  with  all of Tenant's obligations hereunder, except to the
extent  such  obligations  are  contrary  to  or  inconsistent with provisions
contained  in a sublease to which Landlord has expressly consented in writing.
(c)       Landlord's written consent to any sublease of the Premises by Tenant
shall  not constitute an acknowledgment that no default then exists under this
Lease  of  the obligations to be performed by Tenant nor shall such consent be
deemed  a  waiver  of  any  then  existing default, except as may be otherwise
stated  by  Landlord  at  the  time  in  writing.
(d)     With respect to any sublease to which Landlord has consented, Landlord
agrees to deliver a copy of any notice of default by Tenant of the sublessee. 
Such  sublessee  shall  have  the right to cure a default of Tenant within ten
days  after  service  of  said  notice of default upon such sublessee, and the
sublessee  shall  have  a  right  of reimbursement and offset from and against
Tenant  for  any  such  defaults  cured  by  the  sublessee.
(e)     If Tenant's obligations under this Lease have been guaranteed by third
parties,  then  a  sublease,  and  Landlord's  consent  thereto,  shall not be
effective  unless  said guarantors give their written consent to such sublease
and  the  terms  thereof.
(f)      The consent by Landlord to any sublease shall not release Tenant from
its  obligations  or alter the primary liability of Tenant to pay the rent and
perform and comply with all of the obligations of Tenant to be performed under
this  Lease.
(g)          In  the  event  Tenant  shall  default  in the performance of its
obligations  under  this  Lease,  Landlord,  at  its  option  and  without any
obligation to do so, may require any sublessee to attorn to Landlord, in which
event  Landlord  shall undertake the obligations of Tenant under such sublease

- -19-


from  the  time  of  the  exercise  of  said option to the termination of such
sublease;  provided,  however,  Landlord  shall  not be liable for any prepaid
rents  or  security  deposit paid by such sublessee to Tenant or for any other
prior  defaults  of  Tenant  under  such  sublease.
(h)      Each and every consent required of Tenant under a sublease shall also
require  the  consent  of  Landlord.
     15.5.        ATTORNEYS' FEES.  In the event Tenant shall assign or sublet
the  Premises or request the consent of Landlord to any assignment or sublease
or if Tenant shall request the consent of Landlord for any act Tenant proposes
to do, then Tenant shall pay Landlord's reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in
connection therewith, such attorneys' fees not to exceed $500.00 for each such
request.
15.6.          CONTINUING  LIABILITY OF TENANT.  No transfer permitted by this
Section  shall  release Tenant or change Tenant's primary liability to pay the
rent  and  to  perform  all  other  obligations  of  Tenant under this Lease. 
Landlord's  acceptance  of  rent  from any other person is not a waiver of any
provision  of  this  Section.  Consent to one transfer is not a consent to any
subsequent  transfer.    If  Tenant's  transferee  defaults  under this Lease,
Landlord may proceed directly against Tenant without pursuing remedies against
the  transferee.    Landlord  may  consent  to  subsequent  assignments  or
modifications  of  this Lease by Tenant's transferee, without notifying Tenant
or  obtaining  its  consent.    Such  action  shall  not relieve Tenant of its
liability  under  this  Lease.
15.7.       EFFECT OF TERMINATION.  In the event of Tenant's surrender of this
Lease  or  the termination of this Lease in any other manner, Landlord may, at
its  option,  either  terminate  any  or  all  subtenancies  or succeed to the
interest  of  Tenant  as  sublessor  thereunder.   No merger shall result from
Tenant's  sublease  of  the Premises under this Section, Tenant's surrender of
this  Lease  or  the  termination  of  this  Lease  in  any  other  manner.
16.          DEFAULT  BY  TENANT;  REMEDIES.
     16.1.          EVENTS OF DEFAULT.  The occurrence of any of the following
(each, a "DEFAULT") shall constitute a material breach or default by Tenant of
its  obligations  hereunder;
     (a)       Failure by Tenant to pay rent when due if the failure continues
for  three  (3)  days  after  notice has been given to Tenant that the rent is
delinquent.
(b)       Failure by Tenant to perform any provision of this Lease required of
it  other  than  clause  (a) above if the failure is not cured within ten (10)
days  after  notice has been given to Tenant.  If, however, the failure cannot
reasonably  be cured within the cure period, Tenant shall not be in default of
this  Lease if Tenant commences to cure the failure within the cure period and
diligently  and  in  good  faith  continues  to  cure  the  failure.
(c)      To the extent permitted by law, a general assignment by Tenant or any
Guarantor  of  the  Lease  for  the benefits of creditors, or the filing by or
against  Tenant  or  any  Guarantor  of any proceeding under any insolvency or
bankruptcy law, unless in the case of a proceeding filed against Tenant or any
Guarantor  the same is dismissed within sixty (60) days, or the appointment of
a  trustee  or  receive  to take possession of all or substantially all of the
assets  of Tenant or any Guarantor, unless possession is restored to Tenant or
such  Guarantor  within thirty (30) days, or any execution or other judicially
authorized seizure of all or substantially all of Tenant's assets located upon
the  Premises  or  of  Tenant's interest in this Lease, unless such seizure is
discharged  within  thirty  (30)  days  (each,  an  "INSOLVENCY  EVENTS").
     16.2.     DEFAULT NOTICES.  Notices given under this Section will specify
the  alleged  failure or breach and the applicable Lease provisions; and shall
demand  that  Tenant perform the provisions of this Lease or pay the rent that
is  delinquent,  as  the  case may be, within the applicable period of time or
quit  the  Premises.    No  such  notice  shall  be  deemed  a forfeiture or a
termination  of  this  Lease  unless  Landlord  so  elects in the notice.  The
purpose  of  the  notice  requirements in this Section is to extend the notice

- -20-


requirements  of  the unlawful detainer statutes.  Such notice shall, however,
be  in  lieu  of and not in addition to any notice required under the unlawful
detainer  statutes.
16.3.      LANDLORD'S REMEDIES.  Landlord shall have the below listed remedies
if  Tenant  commits  a  default.    These remedies are not exclusive; they are
cumulative  to  any  remedies  now  or  later  allowed  by  law.
     (a)          Landlord  may  terminate Tenant's right to possession of the
Premises  at  any  time.    No  act  by  Landlord  other than giving notice of
termination  to  Tenant  shall  terminate  this  Lease.   Acts of maintenance,
efforts  to  relet the Premises or the appointment of a receiver on Landlord's
initiative  to  protect  Landlord's  interest  under  this  Lease  shall  not
constitute  a  termination  of  Tenant's right to possession.  On termination,
Landlord  shall  have  the  right  to  recover  from  Tenant:
     (i)        The worth at the time of the award of the unpaid rent that had
been  earned  at  the  time  of  termination  of  this  Lease;
(ii)      The worth at the time of the award of the amount by which the unpaid
rent  that  would have been earned after the date of termination of this Lease
until  the  time  of  award exceeds the amount of the loss of rent that Tenant
proves  could  have  been  reasonably  avoided;
(iii)         The worth at the time of the award of the amount by which unpaid
rent for the balance of the Term after the time of award exceeds the amount of
the  loss  of  rent that Tenant proves could have been reasonably avoided; and
(iv)          Any other amount, including reasonable attorneys' fees and court
costs,  necessary  to compensate Landlord for all detriment proximately caused
by  Tenant's default or which in the ordinary course of things would be likely
to  result  therefrom.
The  phrase  "worth  at the time of the award" as used in clauses (i) and (ii)
above  is  to  be  computed by allowing interest at the rate of twelve percent
(12%)  per annum, but not to exceed the then legal rate of interest.  The same
phrase  as  used  in  clause  (iii) above is to be computed by discounting the
amount  at  the  discount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco at
the  time  of  the  award,  plus  one  percent  (1%).
     (b)         Landlord may exercise the remedy provided in California Civil
Code    1951.4,  that  is,  Landlord may continue this Lease in full force and
effect,  and  collect  Base Rent and Operating Expenses as they become due, so
long  as  Landlord does not terminate Tenant's right to possession pursuant to
Section  17.3(a) above.  During the period that Tenant is in default, Landlord
may  enter  the  Premises and relet them or any part of them, to third parties
for  Tenant's  account,  for  a  shorter  or longer term than the Term of this
Lease,  and  for  such rental and on such other terms as Landlord, in its sole
discretion,  shall  deem  advisable  and Tenant shall be immediately liable to
Landlord  for  all  costs  which  Landlord  incurs  in reletting the Premises,
including, without limitation, broker's commissions, advertising expenses, the
cost  of  remodeling the Premises which may be required for reletting, and all
such  similar  costs.    No  act  by  Landlord  pursuant to this Section shall
terminate  this  Lease  unless  Landlord shall notify Tenant that it elects to
terminate this Lease.  After Tenant's default and for as long as Landlord does
not  terminate Tenant's right to possession of the Premises, Tenant shall have
the  right  to  assign  its  interest  in  the Lease upon the reasonable prior
consent of Landlord; provided, however, that Tenant shall not be released from
any  liability  under  this  Lease  as  a  result  of  such  assignment.
(c)       Landlord may, after expiration of any applicable cure period, unless
there  is  an  emergency  (in  which  case Landlord need not wait), correct or
remedy  any  failure  of Tenant not timely cured.  The reasonable cost paid by
Landlord to correct or remedy any such default will immediately become due and
payable  to  Landlord  an  additional  rent.
(d)       Nothing contained in this Lease shall limit Landlord to the remedies
specifically set forth in this Section 16.3.  Upon Tenant's default or breach,
Landlord  shall  be  entitled to exercise any right or remedy then provided by
law,  including  without  limitation the right to obtain injunctive relief and

- -21-


the  right  to recover all damages caused by Tenant's default or breach in the
performance  of  any  of  its  obligations  under  this  Lease.
     16.4.          INTEREST.  Any amount owed to Landlord under the terms and
provisions of this Lease which is not paid when due shall bear interest at the
highest  rate allowed by applicable law from the date the same becomes due and
payable by the terms and provisions of this Lease until paid, unless otherwise
specifically  provided  in  this  Lease.
16.5.          MITIGATION.   Efforts by Landlord to mitigate damages caused by
Tenant's  breach  shall  not  be  construed as a waiver of Landlord's right to
recover  damages.
16.6.       RIGHT OF LANDLORD TO RE-ENTER.  In the event of any termination of
this  Lease,  Landlord  shall  have  the  immediate  right  to  enter upon and
repossess  the  Premises,  and  any personal property of Tenant may be removed
from  the Premises and stored in any public warehouse at the risk and expenses
of  Tenant.
16.7.          RECAPTURABLE  EXPENSES.   Tenant acknowledges that Landlord has
undertaken  or  may  undertake  certain expenses in connection with the Lease,
including  payment of some or all of the following: brokerage commissions, the
costs  of  any Landlord's Work, moving expenses or other categories of cost of
expense  ("RECAPTURABLE  EXPENSES").    Notwithstanding  any  provision  or
implication  to  the  contrary  in  this  Lease,  in  the  event  of premature
termination  of  the  Term of this Lease pursuant to Section 16.3(a) following
Tenant's  default,  there shall be immediately due and payable from Tenant, as
Additional  Rent  which  has been fully earned at the time of termination, the
unamortized  portion  of  the  Recapturable  Expenses  actually  incurred  by
Landlord.    For  purposes  of  this  Section,  the unamortized portion of the
Recapturable  Expenses  shall  be  determined  by  multiplying  the  total
Recapturable  Expenses  actually  incurred  by  Landlord  by  a  fraction, the
numerator  of  which  is  the number of months remaining in the Term following
premature  termination  in which unabated Base Rent would have been payable to
Landlord  pursuant  to  the  Lease,  and the denominator of which is the total
number of months in the Term, both before and after the premature termination,
in  which  unabated  Base Rent was paid or would have been payable to Landlord
had  the Lease not been terminated.  Any Recapturable Expenses due to Landlord
in  accordance  with  this  Section shall be in addition to any sums otherwise
recoverable  pursuant  to  Section  16.3(a)  of  this  Lease.
17.          TENANT'S  INSOLVENCY.
     17.1.          APPLICABILITY  OF  SECTION.   In addition to any rights or
remedies  of  Landlord under the terms of this Lease, the following provisions
shall  specifically  apply  upon  the  occurrence  of  an Insolvency Event (as
defined  in  Section  16.1(c)  above).
     17.2.          ASSUMPTION  OR  REJECTION  OF  LEASE.
     (a)     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Tenant
as  debtor  in possession and any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy for Tenant
(collectively,  "TENANT'S  TRUSTEE")  shall either assume or reject this Lease
within  sixty  (60)  days following the entry of an order for relief or within
such  earlier  time  as  may  be  provided  by  applicable  law.
     (b)     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the
event  that this Lease is attempted to be assumed under the Bankruptcy Code by
Tenant's  Trustee  during  the  existence  of  any  Default by Tenant, no such
attempted assumption shall be effective unless and until Tenant's Trustee: (i)
cures, or provides adequate assurance that it will promptly cure such Default;
and  (ii)  compensates,  or  provides adequate assurance that it will promptly
compensate,  Landlord for any actual pecuniary loss to Landlord resulting from
such  Default;  and (iii) provides adequate assurance of future performance of
Tenant's  obligations  and  covenants  under  this  Lease.   Landlord shall be
entitled  to  reimbursement  from  the  estate  of Tenant for all actual costs
incurred  by  Landlord  in  considering  any  proposed  assignee  of the Lease
pursuant  to  this  Section  17.
(c)       Tenant's Trustee may assign this Lease pursuant to the provisions of
the  Bankruptcy  Code  only  if:  (A)  Tenant's  Trustee  assumes the Lease in
accordance  with  the  above  provisions  of  this  Section  17.2; and (B) the

- -22-


assignee of Tenant's Trustee assumes all of the obligations arising under this
Lease  and  provides  adequate assurance of its future performance of Tenant's
obligations  and  covenants  under  this  Lease  (whether or not a Default has
occurred  under the Lease).  Any such assignee shall, upon demand, execute and
deliver  to  Landlord,  an  instrument  confirming  such  assumption.
(d)      For purposes of Section 17.2(b) and (c), the term "adequate assurance
of  future  performance"  shall  include,  without  limitation,  at  least the
following:
     (i)        Any proposed assignee must have, as demonstrated to Landlord's
satisfaction,  a  net  worth (as defined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles consistently applied) in an amount sufficient to assure
that  the  proposed  assignee  will  have  the resources to meet the financial
responsibilities  under  this  Lease,  including the payment of all rent.  The
financial  condition and resources of Tenant and any Guarantor(s) are material
inducements  to  Landlord  entering  into  this  Lease.
(ii)          Any  proposed  assignee  must  have engaged in the permitted use
described  in  Section  1.13  for  at  least  five (5) years prior to any such
proposed  assignment.
(iii)          In  entering  into  this Lease, Landlord considered extensively
Tenant's  permitted  use and determined that such permitted business would add
substantially  to the tenant balance in the Business Park, and were it not for
Tenant's  agreement  to  operate  only  Tenant's  permitted  business  on  the
Premises,  Landlord  would  not  have  entered  into  this  Lease.  Landlord's
anticipated  benefits  from  the  lease  of  the  Premises  will be materially
impaired if a trustee in bankruptcy or any assignee of this Lease operates any
business  other  than  Tenant's  permitted  business.
(iv)          Any  assumption  of  this Lease by a proposed assignee shall not
adversely  affect Landlord's relationship with any of the remaining tenants in
the Premises, taking into consideration any and all other "use" clauses and/or
"exclusivity"  clauses  which may then exist under their leases with Landlord.
(v)      Any proposed assignee must not be engaged in any business or activity
which  it  will conduct on the Premises and which will subject the Premises to
contamination  by  any  Hazardous  Materials.
(vi)       The percentage rent, if any, due under this Lease shall not decline
substantially.
(vii)          Any  assumption  or  assignment  of this Lease shall not breach
substantially any provision in any other lease, financing agreement, or master
agreement  relating  to  the  Business  Park.
(viii)          Any  assumption or assignment of this Lease shall not alter or
affect  materially  any  other  obligation or duty of Tenant not to be used to
circumvent  the  remainder  of  the  provisions  of  this  Lease.
18.          DEFAULT  BY  LANDLORD.
     18.1.       LANDLORD'S DEFAULT.  Landlord shall be in default if Landlord
fails to perform any provision of this Lease required of it and the failure is
not  cured  within  thirty (30) days after notice has been given to Landlord. 
If,  however,  the  failure cannot reasonably be cured within the cure period,
Landlord  shall  not be in default of this Lease if Landlord commences to cure
the  failure within the cure period and diligently and in good faith continues
to  cure  the  failure.    Notices  given under this Section shall specify the
alleged  breach and the applicable Lease provisions.  If Landlord shall at any
time  default  beyond the applicable notice and cure period, Tenant shall have
the  right  to  cure  such default on Landlord's behalf.  Any sums expended by
Tenant in doing so, and all reasonably necessary incidental costs and expenses
incurred  in  connection  therewith,  shall  be  payable by Landlord to Tenant
within  thirty  (30)  days  following  demand  therefor  by  Tenant; provided,
however,  that Tenant shall not be entitled to any deduction or setoff against
any  rent  otherwise  payable  to  Landlord  under  this  Lease.

- -23-


18.2.       NOTICE TO MORTGAGEE(S).  Whenever Tenant serves notice on Landlord
of  Landlord's  default,  written notice shall also be served at the same time
upon  the  Mortgagee  under  any first- or second-priority Mortgage; provided,
however,  that  Tenant  shall have no obligation to provide such notice unless
and  until Tenant has received written notice of the Mortgagee's existence and
address.    Such Mortgagee shall have the periods of time within which to cure
Landlord's  defaults  as  are  provided  in  Section 18.1, which periods shall
commence  to run thirty (30) days after the commencement of the periods within
which Landlord must cure its defaults under Section 18.1.  In this connection,
any  representative  of  the  Mortgagee shall have the right to enter upon the
Premises  for  the purpose of curing Landlord's default.  Such Mortgagee shall
notify  Landlord  and  Tenant  of  the address of such Mortgagee to which such
notice  shall  be  sent,  and  the agreements of Tenant under this Section are
subject to prior receipt of such notice.  If the nature of the default is such
that  the  Mortgagee's possession is required to cure the default, then Tenant
will  not  terminate the Lease so long as such Mortgagee commences proceedings
to obtain possession of the Premises within the period of time afforded to the
Mortgagee  to  cure  such  default,  and  once  the  Mortgagee  has  obtained
possession,  diligently  proceeds  to  cure the default.  Nothing contained in
this  Lease  shall  be  construed to impose any obligation on any Mortgagee to
cure  any  default  by  Landlord  under  the  Lease.
19.          SUBORDINATION  AND  ESTOPPEL.
     19.1.       SUBORDINATION.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 19,
at  the  option  and  upon written declaration of Landlord, this Lease and the
leasehold  estate created hereby shall be subject, subordinate and inferior to
the  lien and charge of any Mortgage; provided, however, that this Lease shall
not  be  subordinate  to any Mortgage arising after the date of this Lease, or
any  renewal,  extension  or  replacement  thereof,  unless and until Landlord
provides  Tenant  with  an  agreement  from the Mortgagee of the type normally
provided  by  commercial  lenders  in  southern  California  ("NON-DISTURBANCE
AGREEMENT"), setting forth that so long as Tenant is not in default hereunder,
Landlord's and Tenant's rights and obligations hereunder shall remain in force
and  Tenant's  right  to  possession  shall be upheld, that Tenant's rights of
occupancy  shall not be disturbed in the event of a termination of foreclosure
of  the Mortgage, and that Tenant shall receive all of the rights and services
provided  for  under  the  Lease.    Subject  to  the foregoing condition, (i)
Landlord  hereby  expressly reserves the right, at its option and declaration,
to  place  Mortgages  upon  and  against the Premises and/or any part thereof,
superior  in  lien and effect to this Lease and the estate created hereby, and
(ii)  Landlord shall be entitled to sign, acknowledge and record in the Office
of  the  County  Recorder  of the County in which the Premises are situated, a
declaration  that this Lease and leasehold estate are subject, subordinate and
inferior  to  any  Mortgage placed or to be placed by Landlord upon or against
the  Premises  and/or  any part thereof (in favor of any Mortgagee, trustee or
title  insurance  company  insuring  the  interest  of  any  such  Mortgagee),
recordation  of which shall, of and by itself and without further notice to or
act  or  agreement  of  Tenant,  make this Lease and the estate created hereby
subject,  subordinate  and  inferior  thereto.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Tenant  shall,  promptly  following a request by Landlord and after receipt of
the  Non-Disturbance  Agreement,  execute  and  acknowledge  any subordination
agreement  or  other documents required to establish of record the priority of
any  such  Mortgage  over  this  Lease,  so  long  as  such agreement does not
otherwise increase Tenant's obligations or diminish Tenant's rights hereunder.
19.2.        ATTORNMENT.  In the event of foreclosure of any Mortgage, whether
superior  or  subordinate to this Lease, then (a) this Lease shall continue in
force;  (b)  Tenant's quiet possession shall not be disturbed if Tenant is not
in  default  hereunder; (c) Tenant shall attorn to and recognize the Mortgagee
or  purchaser  at  foreclosure sale ("NEW OWNER") as Tenant's landlord for the
remaining  term of this Lease; and (d) the New Owner shall not be bound by (i)
any  payment  of  rent for more than one month in advance, (ii) any amendment,
modification or ending of this Lease without the New Owner's consent after the
New  Owner's  name  is  given to Tenant, unless the amendment, modification or
ending  is  specifically authorized by the original Lease and does not require
Landlord's  prior  agreement or consent, or (iii) any liability for any act or
omission  of  a prior Landlord.  At the request of the New Owner, Tenant shall
execute  a  new lease for the Premises, setting forth all of the provisions of
this  Lease  except that the term of the new lease shall be for the balance of
the  Term.
19.3.     ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE.  Tenant shall execute and deliver to Landlord,
within  ten days after receipt of Landlord's request, any estoppel certificate
or  other  statement  to  be  furnished to any prospective purchaser of or any

- -24-


lender  against the Premises.  Such estoppel certificate shall acknowledge and
certify  each  of  the following matters, to the extent each may be true: that
the  Lease  is  in  effect  and  not  subject to any rental offsets, claims or
defenses  to  its  enforcement;  the commencement and termination dates of the
Term;  that Tenant is paying rent on a current basis; that any Landlord's Work
required  to  be furnished under the Lease has been completed in all respects;
that  the  Lease  constitutes the entire agreement between Tenant and Landlord
relating  to  the  Premises;  that  Tenant has accepted the Premises and is in
possession  thereof;  that the Lease has not been modified, altered or amended
except  in specified respects by specified instruments; and that Tenant has no
notice of any prior assignment, hypothecation or pledge of rents or the Lease.
 Tenant  shall  also,  upon  request  of  Landlord,  certify and agree for the
benefit of any Mortgagee against the Premises or the Building that Tenant will
not  look  to  such  Mortgagee:  as  being  liable  for any act or omission of
Landlord;  as being obligated to cure any defaults of Landlord under the Lease
which  occurred  prior  to  the  time  Mortgagee,  its  successors or assigns,
acquired  Landlord's  interest in the Premises by foreclosure or otherwise; as
being  bound  by  any  payment  of  Base  Rent or Additional Rent by Tenant to
Landlord  for more than one month in advance; or as being bound by Landlord to
any  amendment  or  modification  of  the  Lease  without  Mortgagee's written
consent.
19.4.     REMEDIES.  Failure of the Tenant to sign any statement or instrument
delivered  by  Landlord  or  Mortgagee  to  effectuate  the provisions of this
Section  19  within  ten  (10)  days  after request to do so by Landlord shall
constitute  a  Default  of  this  Lease,  and Landlord shall have the right to
exercise  any  remedies or rights Landlord may now or hereafter have hereunder
or  at  law  or  in  equity.
20.          HAZARDOUS  MATERIALS.
     20.1.          TENANT'S ENVIRONMENTAL QUESTIONNAIRE.  Tenant warrants and
represents,  and  acknowledges that this Lease was entered into by Landlord in
material  reliance  upon  the  information  set  forth  in  the  environmental
questionnaire,  in  the  form  attached  as  Exhibit  E,  that  was previously
delivered  by  Tenant  to  Landlord.
20.2.          TENANT'S  OBLIGATIONS.
     (a)         Tenant shall at all times and in all respects comply with all
Hazardous  Materials Laws, and shall, at its own expense, procure, maintain in
effect  and  comply  with all conditions of any and all permits, licenses, and
other  governmental  and regulatory approvals required for Tenant's use of the
Premises,  including, without limitation, discharge of (appropriately treated)
materials  or wastes into or through any sanitary sewer serving the Premises. 
Except  as  discharged  into  the  sanitary  sewer  in  strict  accordance and
conformity  with  all  applicable Hazardous Materials Laws, Tenant shall cause
any  and  all  Hazardous Materials removed from the Premises to be removed and
transported  solely  by  duly licensed haulers to duly licensed facilities for
final  disposal  of  such  materials and wastes.  Tenant shall in all respects
handle,  treat,  deal  with and manage any and all Hazardous Materials in, on,
under  or about the Premises in total conformity with all applicable Hazardous
Materials  Laws  and  prudent  industry practices regarding management of such
Hazardous  Materials.
(b)     Upon expiration or earlier termination of the Term, Tenant shall cause
all  Hazardous  Materials released or emitted by Tenant or its representatives
on  the  Premises  to  be  removed  from the Premises and transported for use,
storage  or  disposal  in  accordance  with and compliance with all applicable
Hazardous  Materials  Laws.
(c)          Except  in  the  event of an emergency, Tenant shall not take any
remedial  action  in response to the presence of any Hazardous Materials in or
about the Premises, nor enter into any settlement agreement, consent decree or
other  compromise in respect to any claims relating to any Hazardous Materials
in  any  way  connected with the Premises, without first notifying Landlord of
Tenant's  intention  to  do  so  and  affording  Landlord ample opportunity to
appear,  intervene  or  otherwise  appropriately assert and protect Landlord's
interest  with  respect  thereto.
(d)          Tenant  shall  immediately notify Landlord in writing of: (i) any
enforcement,  cleanup,  removal  or  other  governmental  or regulatory action
instituted,  completed or threatened pursuant to any Hazardous Materials Laws;

- -25-


(ii) any claim made or threatened by any person against Tenant or the Premises
relating  to  damage, contribution, cost recovery compensation, loss or injury
resulting  from  or  claimed to result from any Hazardous Materials; and (iii)
any  reports  made to any environmental agency arising out of or in connection
with  any  Hazardous  Materials in or removed from the Premises, including any
complaints, notices, warnings or asserted violations in connection therewith. 
Tenant shall also supply to Landlord as promptly as possible, and in any event
within  five  business  days  after  Tenant  first receives or sends the same,
copies  of  all  claims,  reports,  complaints,  notices, warnings or asserted
violations,  relating  in  any  way  to the Premises or Tenant's use thereof. 
Tenant  shall promptly deliver to Landlord copies of hazardous waste manifests
reflecting  the  legal  and proper disposal of all Hazardous Materials removed
from  the  Premises.
     20.3.       INDEMNITY.  With respect to Tenant's use and occupancy of the
Premises  and  Common  Areas,  Tenant  shall  indemnify,  defend  (by  counsel
reasonably  acceptable  to  Landlord),  protect, and hold Landlord and each of
Landlord's  officers,  directors,  shareholders, employees, agents, attorneys,
successors and assigns, free and harmless from and against any and all claims,
liabilities,  penalties, forfeitures, losses or expenses (including attorneys'
fees),  or  death  of  or  injury  to  any  person  or  damage to any property
whatsoever,  arising  from  or  caused  in  whole  or  in  part,  directly  or
indirectly,  by  (a)  the  presence  in,  on,  under or about the Premises, or
discharge  in  or  from the Premises, of any Hazardous Materials that arose or
occurred  by  reason  of  the  acts  or  omissions of Tenant or its employees,
contractors,  invitees  and  representatives;  (b)  Tenant's  use,  analysis,
storage,  transportation,  disposal, release, threatened release, discharge or
generation  of  Hazardous  Materials  to,  in  ,  on, under, about or from the
Premises; or (c) Tenant's failure to comply with any Hazardous Materials Law. 
Tenant's  obligations hereunder shall include, without limitation, and whether
foreseeable  or  unforeseeable, all costs of any required or necessary repair,
cleanup  or  detoxification  or  decontamination  of  the  Premises,  or  the
preparation  and  implementation  of  any  closure,  remedial  action or other
required  plans  in  connection therewith, and shall survive the expiration or
earlier  termination  of  the Term.  For purposes of the release and indemnity
provisions  thereof, any acts or omissions of Tenant, or by employees, agents,
assignees,  subtenants,  contractors  or  subcontractors  of  Tenant or others
acting  for  or  on  behalf  of  Tenant  (whether  or  not they are negligent,
intentional,  willful  or  unlawful) shall be strictly attributable to Tenant.
21.          NOTICE.
     All  notices, demands or requests from one party to the other shall be in
writing.    Notices  may  be  personally delivered, sent by Federal Express or
other  reputable express delivery service, sent by telecopier with first-class
mail  backup, or sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, to the addresses set
forth  at  Section  1.17  or  1.18,  as  applicable.   Notices shall be deemed
received  upon  actual  delivery  to the addressee with respect to personal or
express  delivery  service  or telecopier, and three (3) days after deposit in
the mails with respect to mailing.  Each party shall have the right, from time
to  time,  to designate a different address by notice given in conformity with
this  Section  to  the  other  party.
22.          OTHER  TERMS  AND  CONDITIONS.
     22.1.        SIGNAGE.  Tenant shall not place or permit to be placed, any
sign,  advertisement,  notice  or  other similar matter on the doors, windows,
exterior walls, roof or other areas of the Premises which are open to the view
of  persons outside the Premises, except in accordance with Landlord's signage
plan  which  is  attached  as  Exhibit  D.
22.2.      PARKING.  In connection with its use and occupancy of the Premises,
Tenant  shall have the right to park in the parking area of the Project, at no
additional  charge  and on a non-reserved basis and on terms and conditions to
be  established  by  the  Landlord  from  time to time during the Term and any
Extension Term, no more than the number of vehicles set forth in Section 1.16.
 The  parking  authorized by this Section shall be for personal transportation
to  and from the Premises, and not for long-term storage of automobiles or for
short-  or  long-term  storage  of  boats, trailers or recreational vehicles. 
Landlord  reserves the right to designate certain parking areas in the Project
as  being  for  the  exclusive  use  of  other  tenants  of  the  Project.
22.3.      SITE PLAN.  The purpose of the site plan attached hereto as Exhibit
A  is  to  show  the  existing  development  of  the  Project, the approximate
locations  of  buildings  areas, traffic lanes, sidewalks, parking areas, curb
cuts and abutting thoroughfares, and of the Premises, and those intended to be
leased  to  other tenants, whether named thereon or not.  All such information

- -26-


is  subject  to  change at Landlord's option without notice, and no rights are
granted to Tenant by the inclusion of said plot plan as a part of this Lease. 
No  representations or warranties are made by Landlord that the Project or the
Business  Park  will  be developed as shown.  The foregoing is in addition to,
not  in substitution of, all rights reserved to Landlord pursuant to Section 3
above.
22.4.          EASEMENTS.  Landlord reserves to itself the right, from time to
time,  to  grant  such  easements,  rights  and  dedications as Landlord deems
necessary  or  desirable,  and  to  cause  the  recordation of parcel maps and
restrictions,  so  long  as  such  easements,  rights,  dedications,  maps and
restrictions do not unreasonably interfere with Tenant's normal conduct of its
business  on  the  Premises.    Tenant  shall  sign  any of the aforementioned
documents  upon  request  of  Landlord and failure to do so shall constitute a
material  default  of this Lease by Tenant without the need for further notice
to  Tenant.
22.5.       NO LIGHT, AIR OR VIEW EASEMENTS.  No diminution or shutting off of
light,  air or view by any structure which may be erected on lands adjacent to
the  Building  shall  in  any way affect this Lease or impose any liability on
Landlord.
22.6.          SECURITY  MEASURES.  Tenant acknowledges that Landlord does not
intend  to provide guard service or other security measures for the benefit of
the Premises.  Tenant assumes all responsibility for the protection of Tenant,
its agents, and invitees and the property of Tenant and of Tenant's agents and
invitees  from  acts of third parties, and assumes all risk in connection with
any  failure  to  provide  or  lack  of such security measures.  Tenant hereby
waives  any  and  all  claims  for damages to persons or property sustained by
Tenant,  or  by  any  other  person  or  entity,  arising  from,  out of or in
connection  with,  or  alleged  to  arise  from, out of or in connection with,
Landlord's  not  providing  any security measure for the Premises or Project. 
Nothing  herein  contained  shall prevent Landlord, at Landlord's sole option,
from  providing security protection for the Premises, in which event the costs
thereof  shall  be  included  within  Operating  Expenses.
22.7.          HOLDING  OVER  BY TENANT.  Tenant agrees upon the expiration or
termination of this Lease, immediately and peaceably to yield up and surrender
the  Premises;  notice  to  quit or vacate is hereby expressly waived.  Tenant
shall  be  liable  to Landlord for any and all damages incurred by Landlord as
the  result  of  any  failure  by Tenant to timely surrender possession of the
Premises  as  required herein.  If Tenant shall hold over after the expiration
of  this  Lease  for any cause, such holding over shall be deemed a tenancy at
sufferance  or,  at  the  sole  discretion  of  Landlord,  a  tenancy  from
month-to-month,  in  which event such month-to-month tenancy shall be upon the
same  terms,  conditions  and  provisions  set forth in this Lease, at one and
one-half  (1  1/2) times the Base Rent that was in effect immediately prior to
the  termination.
22.8.     LANDLORD'S RIGHT OF ENTRY.  Landlord and Landlord's agents may enter
upon the Premises at any reasonable time and upon reasonable notice (except no
notice  shall  be required in an emergency) to make such repairs, additions or
improvements  as  Landlord  shall  deem  necessary;  to  post  such notices as
Landlord  may deem necessary to exempt Landlord and Landlord's interest in the
Building  and  Premises  from responsibility on account of any work or repairs
done by Tenant upon or in connection with the Premises; to inspect and examine
the  Premises  and see that the covenants hereof are being kept and performed;
or  to  exhibit  the  Premises  to  prospective  tenants  or  purchasers.
22.9.          FURNISHING  OF  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.  Tenant acknowledges that
Landlord  entered  into  this  Lease  in  reliance  upon receiving current and
periodic  financial  reports  documenting  the  progress  of Tenant's business
operations.    Accordingly,  Tenant shall deliver to Landlord, within ten (10)
days  after  request therefor from time to time and in any event no later than
June  30  of  each  year of the Term, financial statements reflecting Tenant's
current  financial  condition and financial statements for each of the two (2)
years  prior to the then-current fiscal statement year.  Such statements shall
be  prepared  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and,
if  such  is the normal practice of Tenant, shall be audited by an independent
certified  public  accountant.
22.10         AUCTIONS.  Tenant shall not conduct, nor permit to be conducted,
either  voluntarily  or  involuntarily, any auction upon the Premises, without
first  having  obtained  Landlord's  prior  written  consent.  Notwithstanding

- -27-


anything  to  the  contrary  in this Lease, Landlord shall not be obligated to
exercise  any  standard of reasonableness in determining whether to grant such
consent.
22.11.     KEYS.  Two (2) keys to the Premises will be furnished by Landlord. 
Additional  keys  will  be  furnished  upon  Tenant  paying  Landlord the cost
thereof.    No  additional  lock  or  locks  shall  be placed by Tenant on any
entrance  door  in  the Building unless written consent of Landlord shall have
been first obtained and, should such consent be so obtained, Landlord shall be
supplied  with  keys  to  each  such  lock  and no other than the employees of
Landlord  or  those  it  has authorized in writing shall work on or modify any
lock  which is part of the entrance to the Premises or Building.  Tenant shall
be  permitted the duplication of any keys to be made however, Tenant shall not
cause or allow any keys to be possessed by any person other than an authorized
agent  of Tenant.  Tenant agrees, at the termination of the tenancy, to return
all  keys  of  all  doors.
22.12.        OTHER TENANCIES.  Landlord reserves the absolute right to effect
such  other  tenancies  in the Business Center as Landlord, in the exercise of
its  sole  business  judgment,  shall  determine  to promote the best interest
thereof.    Tenant does not rely on the fact nor does Landlord represent, that
any specific tenants shall, during the Term of this Lease, occupy any space in
the  Business  Park, notwithstanding the appearance of any names of tenants on
the  site  plan  attached  hereto  as  Exhibit  A,  or  any  replacements  or
substitutions  thereof.
22.13.          BROKERS' FEES.  Landlord has agreed to pay a fee for brokerage
services  rendered  in this transaction to the broker(s) identified in Section
1.15.    Such  brokerage  commission  shall  be payable in accordance with the
separate  written  agreement  between Landlord and such broker(s), which alone
shall govern such brokers' entitlement to any commission.  Landlord and Tenant
each  represent  and  warrant  to  the  other that no broker, agent or finder,
licensed or otherwise has been engaged by it, respectively, in connection with
the transaction contemplated by this Agreement, other than the broker(s) named
above.   In the event of any other claim for broker's, agent's or finder's fee
or  commission  in  connection  with  this  transaction,  the party upon whose
alleged  statement, representation or agreement such claim or liability arises
shall  indemnify,  save,  hold  harmless  and  defend the other party from and
against  such  claim  and  liability.
23.          GENERAL  PROVISIONS.
     23.1.       EXCULPATION.  The obligations of Landlord under this Lease do
not  constitute personal obligations of Landlord or its directors, officers or
shareholders,  and  Tenant  shall  look  solely to the Project and to no other
assets  of  Landlord  for  satisfaction  of any liability with respect to this
Lease,  and  agrees  not  to  seek recourse against the directors, officers or
shareholders  of  Landlord, nor against any of their personal assets, for such
satisfaction.
23.2.          CONVEYANCE  BY  LANDLORD.  Landlord shall be free at all times,
without  need of consent or approval by Tenant, to assign its interest in this
Lease and/or to convey fee title to the Premises.  Each conveyance by Landlord
of  Landlord's  interest  in  the Lease or the Premises prior to expiration or
termination  hereof  shall  be  subject  to  this  Lease and shall relieve the
grantor  of any further obligations or liability as Landlord, and Tenant shall
look  solely to Landlord's successor in interest for all future obligations of
Landlord.    Tenant  hereby  agrees  to  attorn  to  Landlord's  successors in
interest,  whether  such  interest is acquired by sale, transfer, foreclosure,
deed in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise.  The term "Landlord" as used in this
Lease,  so  far  as  covenants  and  obligations  on  the part of Landlord are
concerned,  shall be limited to mean and include only the owner at the time in
question  of  the  fee  title of the Premises.  Without further agreement, the
transferee of such title shall be deemed to have assumed and agreed to observe
and perform any and all obligations of Landlord hereunder during its ownership
of  the  Premises.
23.3.       QUIET ENJOYMENT.  Landlord agrees that so long as Tenant is not in
default  hereunder  Tenant  shall  have  the  quiet  enjoyment of the Premises
without  hindrance  on  the  part  of  Landlord.  Landlord further agrees that
Landlord will warrant and defend Tenant in the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of
the  Premises against the lawful claims of all persons claiming by, through or
under  Landlord.
23.4.          NO ACCORD AND SATISFACTION.  No payment by Tenant or receipt by
Landlord of a lesser amount than the rent herein stipulated shall be deemed to
be  other  than  on  account  of  the  earliest stipulated rent, nor shall any

- -28-


endorsement  or statement on any check or any letter accompanying any check or
payment  as  rent  be  deemed  an  accord and satisfaction, and Landlord shall
accept  such check or payment without prejudice to Landlord's right to recover
the  balance  of  such rent or pursue any other remedy in this Lease provided.
23.5.     WAIVER.  No delay or omission in the exercise of any right or remedy
of  Landlord  for  any  Default by Tenant hereunder shall impair such right or
remedy  or  be  construed  as  a  waiver  thereof.  One or more waivers of any
covenant  or  condition  by  Landlord  shall not be construed as a waiver of a
subsequent  breach  of  the  same  covenant  or  condition, and the consent or
approval  by  Landlord to or of any act by Tenant requiring Landlord's consent
or  approval  shall  not be deemed to render unnecessary Landlord's consent or
approval  to  or  of  any  subsequent  similar  act by Tenant.  No breach of a
covenant  or  condition  of  this Lease shall be deemed to have been waived by
Landlord  unless such waiver is in writing signed by Landlord.  The acceptance
of  any  rent  or  other charges hereunder shall not be deemed a waiver of any
breach  or  Default hereunder other than the payment of the amount accepted by
Landlord.
23.6.       CUMULATIVE RIGHTS.  The various rights, options, elections, powers
and  remedies  contained in this Lease shall be construed as cumulative and no
one  of them shall be exclusive of any of the others, or of any other legal or
equitable  remedy  which  either  party  might  otherwise have in the event of
breach or default in the terms hereof, and the exercise of one right or remedy
by  such  party  shall not impair its right to any other right or remedy until
all  obligations  imposed  upon  the  other  party  have been fully performed.
23.7.      INDEPENDENT COVENANTS.  This Lease shall be construed as though the
covenants  herein  between  Landlord  and  Tenant  are  independent  and  not
dependent,  and  Tenant  hereby expressly waives the benefit of any statute to
the  contrary and agrees that if Landlord fails to perform its obligations set
forth  herein, Tenant shall not be entitled to make any repairs or perform any
acts  hereunder  at  Landlord's  expense or to any setoff of the rent or other
amounts  owing  hereunder  against  Landlord; provided, however, the foregoing
shall  in  no  way  impair  the  right of Tenant to commence a separate action
against  Landlord  for  any  violation by Landlord of the provisions hereof so
long  as notice is first given to Landlord and any Mortgagee (of whose address
Tenant  has  theretofore  been  notified)  and  an  opportunity  is granted to
Landlord  and  such  holder  to  correct  such  violation  as  provided above.
23.8.          RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES.  Nothing contained herein shall be
deemed or construed by the parties hereto, nor by any third party, as creating
the  relationship of principal and agent or of partnership or of joint venture
between  the  parties  hereto, it being understood and agreed that neither the
method  of  computation of rent, nor any other provision contained herein, nor
any  acts  of  the  parties hereto, shall be deemed to create any relationship
between the parties hereto other than the relationship of landlord and tenant.
23.9.     FORCE MAJEURE.  If either party is delayed in the performance of any
covenant  of  this  Lease  because  of  any of the following causes, then such
performance  shall  be  excused for the period of the delay and the period for
such  performance  shall  be extended for a period equivalent to the period of
such  delay;  acts  of  the  other party; action of the elements; war, riot or
civil  insurrection; building moratoria, trip generation restrictions or other
similar  action  by  the  City  of  San  Diego or other governmental agency or
entity; labor disputes; inability to procure or a general shortage of labor or
materials  in  the normal channels of trade; delay in transportation; delay in
inspections;  or any other cause beyond the reasonable control of the party so
obligated, whether similar or dissimilar to the foregoing, financial inability
excepted;  provided,  however, that except as specifically set forth elsewhere
in  this  Lease,  no  such events shall affect Tenant's obligation to pay Base
Rent,  Additional Rent or any other amount payable under this Lease, nor shall
such  events  affect  the  length  of the Term (except to the extent expressly
provided  herein).
23.10.     CONSENTS.  With respect to any provision of this Lease which either
provides  or  is held to provide that Landlord shall not unreasonably withhold
or unreasonably delay any consent or approval, Tenant shall not be entitled to
make any claim for, and Tenant hereby expressly waives, any claim for damages,
it  being understood and agreed that Tenant's sole remedy therefor shall be an
action  for  specific  performance.

- -29-


23.11.          COUNTERPARTS.    This  Lease  may  be  executed in two or more
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an original, but all of which shall
constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.
23.12.      AUTHORITY.  Each individual executing this Lease on behalf of such
entity  represents  and  warrants that he or she is duly authorized to execute
and  deliver  this  Lease  on  behalf of said entity.  Upon the request of the
other party, any such party shall, at the time of the execution of this Lease,
deliver  to  the  other  party  evidence of such authority satisfactory to the
other  party.
23.13.     RECORDING.  Tenant shall not record this Lease or any short form or
memorandum version hereof without the prior written consent of Landlord, which
may  be  withheld  at  Landlord's  sole  discretion.
23.14.       INTERPRETATION AND USE OF PRONOUNS.  Wherever herein the singular
number  is  used,  the same shall include the plural, and the masculine gender
shall  include  the feminine and the neuter genders.  All conditions contained
herein  shall  be  deemed covenants.  The words "breach" or "default" are used
interchangeably  herein  and  each  shall  be  deemed  to  include  the other.
23.15.     CAPTIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.  Section titles or captions contained
in this Lease are inserted as a matter of convenience and for reference and in
no  way  define,  limit,  extend  or  describe  the scope of this Lease or any
provision  hereof.    No  provision  in this Lease is to be interpreted for or
against  either  party  because that party or its legal representative drafted
such  provision.
23.16.         SEVERABILITY.  If any term, covenant, condition or provision of
this Lease is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or
unenforceable,  the remainder of the provisions shall remain in full force and
effect  and  shall  in  no  way  be  affected,  impaired  or  invalidated.
23.17.      APPLICABLE LAW.  This Lease shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance  with,  the  laws  of the State of California,  notwithstanding the
fact  that  Landlord  or  Tenant  may be located in another State or that this
Lease may be executed in another State.  If any provision of this Lease or the
application  thereof  to  any person or circumstances shall, to any extent, be
invalid  or  unenforceable,  the remainder of this Lease shall not be affected
thereby,  and  each  provision of this Lease shall be valid and enforceable to
the fullest extent permitted by law.  Any action brought to enforce or nullify
this  Lease  or  the  provisions  hereof shall be brought in San Diego County,
California,  and  in  no  other  forum.
23.18.     WAIVER OF RIGHT OF REDEMPTION.  Tenant hereby waives for Tenant and
for  all  those  claiming  under Tenant all right now or hereafter existing to
redeem,  by  statute  or  by  order  or  judgment of any court or by any legal
process  or  writ,  Tenant's  right  of  occupancy  of  the Premises after any
termination  of  this Lease.  Tenant hereby waives its rights under California
code  of  civil  procedure      1179.
23.19         ATTORNEYS' FEES.  In case suit shall be brought for any unlawful
detainer  of  the  Premises,  for  the  recovery  of  any  rent  due under the
provisions  of  this  Lease, or because of the breach or alleged breach of any
other  covenant  herein contained, the prevailing party shall recover from the
non-prevailing  party  all  costs  and  expenses  incurred  therein, including
reasonable  attorneys'  fees and expenses incurred in enforcing any judgment. 
If  Landlord,  through  no fault of its own, is made a party to any litigation
relating  to the subject matter covered by this Lease instituted by or against
Tenant,  then  Tenant  shall defend, indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from
and  against  all  costs  and  expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees,
incurred  by  Landlord  in  connection therewith.  In addition thereto, Tenant
agrees  to  pay Landlord's costs, expenses and reasonable attorneys' fees with
respect  to:  (i) each request to Landlord for permission or consent to assign
or  sublet  the Premises, as provided in Section 15.5 above; (ii) each request
made by Tenant to modify, amend or supplement this Lease; and (iii) any breach
or  default  by  Tenant  which  is  cured prior to litigation.  Landlord shall
notify  Tenant of the amount of such attorneys' fees, and Tenant shall pay the
same  (as  Additional  Rent)  within  fifteen  (15)  days  after  such notice.
23.20.         JOINT AND SEVERAL OBLIGATIONS.  If there shall be more than one
Tenant,  they  shall  all  be  bound  jointly  and  severally  by  the  terms,
provisions, covenants, conditions, and agreements herein.  No rights, however,

- -30-


shall  inure to the benefit of any assignee of Tenant unless the assignment to
such  assignee has been approved by Landlord in writing as required hereunder.
23.21.          SUCCESSORS  AND  ASSIGNS.  The covenants and conditions herein
contained  shall,  subject  to  the provisions as to assignments, apply to and
bind  the  heirs,  successors,  executors,  administrators  and assigns of the
respective parties hereof.  If this Lease is signed by more than one person as
Tenant,  their  obligation  shall  be  joint  and  several.
23.22.          TIME  OF THE ESSENCE.  Time is expressly declared to be of the
essence  of  this Lease, and of all covenants and conditions herein contained.
23.23.         NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES.  The provisions of this Lease are
solely  for  the  benefit  of the parties hereto, and no broker or other third
party  shall  be  entitled  to  any  benefits  hereof  or  hereunder.
23.24.       ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  This Lease and the exhibits, and the Addendum,
if  any,  attached  hereto and forming a part hereof, set forth all the terms,
provisions,  covenants,  conditions,  promises,  agreements and understandings
between Landlord and Tenant concerning the Premises.  There are no warranties,
representations,  covenants,  promises,  agreements,  conditions  or
understandings,  either  oral  or  written,  between them other than set forth
herein.    No alteration, amendment, change or addition to this Lease shall be
binding  upon  Landlord or Tenant unless reduced to writing and signed by each
party.
23.25.        NO OPTION BY LANDLORD.  Preparation of this Lease by Landlord or
Landlord's  agent  and  submission  of  same  to Tenant shall not be deemed an
option  or  offer  to lease the Premises on the terms and conditions contained
herein  or a reservation of the Premises in favor of Tenant.  This Lease shall
become  binding  upon  Landlord only upon Landlord's execution and delivery of
this  Lease  to Tenant.  The receipt (which shall include the cashing, deposit
or  other  negotiation  of checks, money orders and the like) of any moneys by
Landlord  which  are  tendered  by Tenant along with a Tenant-executed copy of
this  Lease,  or  at any time prior to Landlord's delivery of a fully executed
copy  of  this Lease to Tenant, shall not constitute an acceptance of Tenant's
offer  to  lease  as contained herein.  Tenant acknowledges that Landlord will
not  deliver  a  fully executed copy of this Lease until Landlord has received
both  any  Guaranties  required  hereunder,  and such corporate resolutions or
other  information  as  reasonably satisfies Landlord as to the incumbency and
authority  to  sign  of  each  individual signing this Lease or any Guaranty. 
Tenant  also  acknowledges that the fully executed Lease will not be delivered
by Landlord to Tenant unless and until approved by Landlord's lender, and that
in  determining  whether to approve.  Landlord's lender will consider Tenant's
lease  application,  credit  information,  biographical  data  on Tenant's key
officers  or  principals,  and  financial  statements  relating  to  Tenant's
business.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, delivery of this Lease by Tenant to
Landlord  after  signature  by  Tenant shall constitute an option which can be
accepted  by  Landlord  at any time until two (2) week s after delivery of the
signed  Lease  by  Tenant.
23.26.      EXHIBITS.  All exhibits described herein, if any, are part of this
Lease  and  by  this  reference are expressly incorporated herein.  This Lease
contains  the  following  Exhibits:
Exhibit  A          Project  Site  Plan
Exhibit  B          Premises  and  Improvements  to  Premises
Exhibit  C          Rules  and  Regulations
Exhibit  D          Signage  Criteria
Exhibit  E          Environmental  Questionnaire
Exhibit  F          Declaration  of  Restrictions
     23.27.          ADDENDUM.   The attached Addendum, if any is specified in
Section  1.19  above, is part of this Lease and by this reference is expressly
incorporated  herein.

- -31-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Lease on the date(s)
set  forth  by  their  respective  signatures.
LANDLORD:
Date:    8/14/97        WESTERN SALT COMPANY, a California corporation
                        By          /s/  Kevin  D.  Hill
                        Kevin  D.  Hill,  Leasing  Manager

                        By          /s/  Michael  P.  Neal
                        Michael  P.  Neal,  Vice  President,  R.E.  Portfolio
                        Management  and  Development

TENANT:
Date:    8-6-97         RESMED  CORP.,  a  Minnesota  corporation
                        By          /s/  Norman  DeWitt

- -32-

                              ADDENDUM TO LEASE
The  following  additional  provisions are a part of, and incorporated in, the
Lease  to  which  this  Addendum  is  attached.   In the event of any conflict
between  the  provisions  of  this  Addendum  and  the body of the Lease, this
Addendum  shall  control.
24.          OPTION  TO  EXTEND.
     Subject  to  satisfaction  of  the  conditions precedent set forth below,
Tenant  shall  have one (1) option to extend the Term ("EXTENSION OPTION") for
sixty  (60)  months beginning the day after the expiration of the initial Term
("EXTENSION  TERM"),  on  the  following  terms  and  conditions:
     24.1.       Tenant's Extension Option shall be subject to satisfaction of
each  of  the following conditions precedent, which are solely for the benefit
of,  and  may  be  waived  unilaterally  by,  Landlord:
     (a)          The  Extension  Option  shall be exercised by written notice
delivered by Tenant to Landlord not later than six (6) months prior to the end
of  the  Term;
(b)     Tenant shall be in occupancy of at least one hundred percent (100%) of
the area of the Premises directly or through a wholly owned subsidiary (at any
tier),  and  not  through  an  unaffiliated  assignee  or  sublessee;  and
(c)     The Lease shall be in effect and Tenant shall not be in default of any
material provision thereof both on the day such written notice is delivered to
Landlord  and  on the last day of the Term; provided, however, if Tenant is in
default  but  the  cure  period  has  not  run, this condition shall be deemed
satisfied  if  Tenant  cures  the  default  within the applicable cure period.
     24.2.       In the event the Term shall be extended following exercise by
Tenant  of  the  Extension  Option,  then  all  of  the  terms,  covenants and
conditions  of  this  Lease  shall  remain in full force and effect during the
Extension Term, except that the initial monthly Base Rent during the Extension
Term  shall be adjusted to the then-effective market rate, including increases
to  Base  Rent,  as  reasonably  determined  by  Landlord  for  new leases for
comparable  space  in  the  area  ("FAIR MARKET RENTAL VALUE"), which shall be
determined  in  accordance  with  Section  24.3.
24.3.       Landlord's determination of the initial monthly Base Rent shall be
delivered  to  Tenant  within thirty (30) days after Tenant's Extension Option
notice  is  delivered  as  set  forth  in  24.1(a) above.  In the event Tenant
rejects Landlord's determination and so notifies Landlord within ten (10) days
after  the  receipt  of  the  determination, Landlord and Tenant shall, within
thirty (30) days after Tenant rejects Landlord's determination, jointly select
an M.A.I. appraiser to determine the Fair Market Rental Value for the Premises
during  the  Extension  Term,  taking  into  account  all relevant factors for
comparable  space  in  the  Scripps Ranch area.  Tenant shall have thirty (30)
days  after  receipt  of  the appraiser's report to notify Landlord in writing
that  Tenant  does not agree with the appraiser's determination of Fair Market
Rental  Value  and therefore that Tenant elects to retract its exercise of the
Extension  Option,  in  which  case  the  Term  shall  expire  on its schedule
expiration  date.    The  costs of the appraiser shall be borne equally by the
parties.
26.          ADDITIONAL  TENANT  IMPROVEMENT  ALLOWANCE.
     Subject  to  the terms and conditions of this Section, and in addition to
the Tenant Improvement Allowance as set forth in Section 1.11, Landlord shall,
at  Tenant's  request, make available to Tenant up to an additional $22,976.00
for  any  cost  and  expense  of  constructing improvements to the Premises as
described  in  the  attached  Exhibit  B  (the  "Additional Tenant Improvement
Allowance").  In the event Tenant does elect to have Landlord pay for any such
Additional  Tenant  Improvement  Allowance,  Tenant shall pay to Landlord each
month  during  the  remaining  Term,  as  Additional  Rent,  an  amount  (the
"Improvement  Amortization  Rent")  equal to the Additional Tenant Improvement
Allowance  so advanced by Landlord multiplied by 0.015174, as a constant based
on  a  ninety  six  (96)  month amortization period at the rate of ten percent
(10%)  per  annum.    To  illustrate, if Tenant should require Landlord to pay
$15,000  in  Additional  Tenant  Improvement  Allowance,  then the Improvement
Amortization  Rent  would be in the amount of $227.61 per month throughout the
Term.  Any Improvement Amortization Rent shall be payable at the same time and
in  the same manner as monthly Base Rent, beginning with the Commencement Date

- -33-


and  continuing on the first day of each month throughout the remaining Term. 
When  the amount of any Improvement Amortization Rent has been determined, the
parties  shall  execute and attach to the Lease a written statement specifying
such  amount.
27.          ADDITIONAL  PROVISIONS  RE  OPERATING  EXPENSES.
     Notwithstanding anything in the Lease to the contrary, during the initial
Term,  Tenant's Share of the Projects Operating Expenses for any calendar year
shall be limited to one hundred seven percent (107%) of the Operating Expenses
[(excluding  trash  disposal,  common  area utilities (water and electricity),
real  estate taxes and property insurance)] actually paid by Tenant during the
preceding  calendar  year;  provided, however, that with respect to the amount
payable  for calendar year 1998, the limitation shall be Tenant's Share of one
hundred  seven  percent  (107%) of the Operating Expenses actually incurred by
Landlord  for  calendar  year  1997,  reasonably  "grossed  up" by Landlord to
reflect  any increases in Operating Expenses that would have been incurred had
Tenant  been  in  occupancy  of  the  Premises  for all of calendar year 1997.
LANDLORD:
Date:    8/14/97     WESTERN SALT COMPANY, a California corporation
                     By          /s/  Kevin  D.  Hill
                     Kevin  D.  Hill,  Leasing  Manager

                     By          /s/  Michael  P.  Neal
                     Michael  P.  Neal,  Vice  President,  R.E.  Portfolio
                     Management  and  Development

TENANT:
Date:    8-6-97      RESMED  CORP.,  a  Minnesota  corporation
                     By          /s/  Norman  DeWitt

- -34-



     Exhibit  11.1





     Exhibit  21.1
                                  RESMED INC
                        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT


ResMed  Holdings  Limited  (incorporated  under  the  laws of New South Wales,
Australia)

ResMed  Limited  (incorporated  under the laws of New South Wales, Australia)*

ResMed  Corporation  (a  Minnesota  corporation)

ResMed  (UK)  Limited  (a  United  Kingdom  corporation)*

ResMed  International  Inc  (a  Delaware  corporation)

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  and  Co  Kg  (a  German  corporation)**

ResMed  SA  (a  French  corporation)**

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  (a  German  corporation)

ResMed  Singapore  Pte  Ltd  (a  Singaporean  corporation)**

ResMed  (Malaysia)  Sdn  Bhd  (a  Malaysian  Corporation)**




*A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  Holdings  Limited
**  A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  International  Inc



     Exhibit  23.1

             INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT AND REPORT ON SCHEDULE

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc.:

The  audits  referred  to  in  our  report dated August 14, 1998, included the
related  financial  statement schedule as of June 30, 1998 and for each of the
years  in the three-year period ended June 30, 1998.  This financial statement
schedule  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.    Our
responsibility  is to  express an opinion on this financial statement schedule
based  on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
a  whole,  presents  fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

We  consent  to  incorporation by reference in the registration statement (No.
333-08013)  on  Form  S-8  of ResMed Inc. of our report dated August 14, 1998,
relating to the consolidated balance sheets of ResMed Inc. and subsidiaries as
of  June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders'  equity,  and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period  ended  June 30, 1998, which report appears in the June 30, 1998 annual
report  on  Form  10-K  of  ResMed  Inc.




/s/  KPMG  PEAT  MARWICK  LLP
KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
San  Diego,  California
September  14,  1998


     Exhibit  27.1
                                  RESMED INC







