
10-K



                                UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C 20549
                              _________________

                                  FORM 10-K
                              _________________

            (X)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1996
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-26038

                                 RESMED INC.
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)

     DELAWARE                                         98-0152841
     (State  or  other  jurisdiction  of          (I.R.S.  Employer
     incorporation  or  organization)          Identification  No.)

                           5744 PACIFIC CENTER BOULEVARD
                                      SUITE 311
                                SAN DIEGO  CA  94104
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                   (Address of principal executive offices)

                                    619 622 2040
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                        COMMON STOCK, $.004 PAR VALUE

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required  to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant  was  required  to  file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
filing  requirements  for  the  past  90  days.

     Yes              X          No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulations  S-K  (S  229.405 of this Chapter) is not contained herein and
will  not  be  contained  to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy  or  information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the
Form  10-K  or  any  amendment  to  this  Form  10-K(          ).

The  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting stock held by non-affiliates of
Registrant as of September 23, 1996, computed by reference to the closing sale
price of such stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market, was approximately $125,082,814
(All  directors  and  executive  officers  of  Registrant  are  considered
affiliates.)

At  September  23, 1996, Registrant had 7,183,330 shares of Common Stock, $.004
par  value,  issued  and  outstanding.

Portions  of  Registrant's  Annual Report to Stockholders for the period ended
June  30,  1996  are  incorporated  by  reference into Part I of this report. 
Portions  of Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its November 12, 1996
meeting  of  stockholders  are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
report.


                                    PART I

Item  1.          Business

     Overview

     ResMed  Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation,  was formed in March 1994 as the
ultimate  holding  company  for  its  Australian,  European  and United States
operating  subsidiaries.    On  June  1, 1995 the Company completed an initial
public offering of common stock and on June 2, 1995 the Company's common stock
commenced trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Its Australian subsidiary ResMed
Holdings Limited ("RHL") was originally organized in 1989 by Dr. Peter Farrell
to acquire from Baxter Center for Medical Research Pty Limited ("Baxter"), the
rights  to  certain  technology  relating  to nasal Continuous Positive Airway
Pressure  ("CPAP")  treatment  of  Obstructive Sleep Apnea ("OSA"), as well as
Baxter's  existing  CPAP  device  business.    Baxter had sold CPAP devices in
Australia  since  1988,  having  acquired the rights to the technology in 1987
from  Dr.  Colin Sullivan of the University of Sydney, who invented nasal CPAP
for  the treatment of OSA.  The Company and its subsidiaries, since 1989, have
specialized  in  the  design, manufacture and marketing of patented nasal CPAP
equipment  for  the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of  OSA.

     Recent  Developments

     The  Company  acquired  the distribution business of both Dieter W Priess
Medtechnik  and  Premium  Medical  SARL  its German and French distributors on
February  7,  1996  and  June  12, 1996, respectively.  The acquisition of the
German  Distributor,  for US$6,500,000 was the subject of a separate report on
Form  8K  and  amendment  to  a  report  on  Form 8K which were filed with the
Securities  Exchange  Commission  on  February  21,  1996  and April 26, 1996,
respectively.

     The  Company  in July and August 1996 respectively received FDA clearance
to  market  its  AutoSet(Trademark)  Portable  diagnostic  products, 
AutoSet(Trademark)  Clinical  devices and  its VPAP(Registered Trademark)II ST
bilevel CPAP.  The VPAP(Registered Trademark)II ST bilevel device features 
spontaneous and timed mode  operation.

     Obstructive  Sleep  Apnea

     OSA  is  a  breathing  disorder  in  which  an  individual  experiences a
temporary collapse of the upper airway during sleep.  This restricts breathing
and severely disrupts the individual's sleep.  Sleep is a complex neurological
process  that  includes  two distinct states: rapid eye movement ("REM") sleep
and  non-rapid eye movement ("non-REM") sleep.  REM sleep, which occurs during
about  20-25%  of  sleep  in adults, is characterized by a high level of brain
activity, bursts of rapid eye movement, increased heart and respiration rates,
and  paralysis  of many muscles.  Non-REM sleep is subdivided into four stages
that  generally  parallel  sleep depth: stage 1 is the lightest and stage 4 is
the deepest.  The inability of an individual to experience adequate amounts of
REM  and  deeper  levels  (stages 3 and 4) of non-REM sleep results in daytime
tiredness  and reduced cognitive function, both of which are characteristic of
OSA.
- -2-

     Normally,  during  REM  sleep  and  deeper levels of non-REM sleep, upper
airway  muscles  relax  and  the airway narrows. The upper airway has no rigid
support  and  is  held  open  by  active contraction of upper airway muscles. 
Individuals  with  narrow upper airways or poor muscle tone are prone to upper
airway  closure  during  sleep  (an  "apnea"),  resulting  in  an inability to
breathe,  or  near  closure (an "hypopnea") which causes snoring and breathing
difficulties.    These  breathing irregularities result in a lowering of blood
oxygen  concentration,  and  after 10 seconds or more, the brain reacts to the
lack  of  oxygen  and  signals the body to respond.  Typically, the individual
subconsciously  arouses  from REM sleep or from Stages 3 or 4 of non-REM sleep
to  Stages  1  or  2 of non-REM sleep, causing the throat muscles to contract,
thus  opening  the  airway.   After a few gasping breaths, blood oxygen levels
increase  and the individual can resume a deeper sleep until the cycle repeats
itself.    The  cycle  of  complete  or  partial  upper  airway  closure  with
subconscious  arousal  to  lighter  levels of sleep can be repeated as many as
several  hundred  times  during six to eight hours of sleep.  Sufferers of OSA
typically  experience  ten  or  more  such  cycles  per  hour  and as a result
experience  clinical  symptoms of OSA, such as excessive daytime sleepiness or
reduced  cognitive  function.   These awakenings greatly impair the quality of
sleep,  although  the  individual  is not normally aware of these disruptions.

     Sleep  fragmentation and the loss of the deeper levels of sleep caused by
OSA  can  lead  to  excessive  daytime  sleepiness, reduced cognitive function
(including  memory  loss and lack of concentration) and irritability.  OSA has
been  associated  with employment difficulties, marital discord, impotence and
other  adverse  effects.    Patients with OSA have been shown to have impaired
daytime  performance  in  a  variety  of cognitive functions including problem
solving,  response  speed and visual motor coordination.  Certain studies have
linked  OSA  to increased occurrences of traffic and workplace accidents.  OSA
sufferers  also  may  experience an increase in heart rate and an elevation of
blood  pressure during the cycle of apneas.  Several reports indicate that the
oxygen  desaturation,  increased heart rate and elevated blood pressure caused
by  OSA  may be associated with increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and
mortality  due  to  angina,  stroke  and  heart  attack.

     The  Market

     In  its  "Wake  Up  America"  report  to  Congress  in 1993, the National
Commission on Sleep Disorders Research estimated that approximately 40 million
individuals  in  the  United States suffer from chronic disorders of sleep and
wakefulness,  such as sleep apnea, insomnia and narcolepsy.  According to this
report, sleep apnea is the most common sleep disorder, affecting approximately
20  million  individuals  in  the  United States.  Nearly 6.5 million of these
persons over the age of 30 experience moderate to severe forms of sleep apnea.
 However,  there  is a general lack of awareness of OSA among both the medical
community  and the general public, which has led to a corresponding failure to
diagnose  the  disorder.    It is estimated that less than 3% of those persons
afflicted  by  OSA  know the cause of their fatigue or other symptoms.  Health
care  professionals  are often unable to diagnose OSA because they are unaware
that  such  non-specific  symptoms  as  fatigue,  snoring and irritability are
characteristic  of  OSA.
- -3-

     While  OSA has been diagnosed in a broad cross-section of the population,
it  is  predominant  among  middle-aged  men  and  those who are obese, smoke,
consume alcohol in excess or use muscle-relaxing drugs.  In addition, patients
who are being treated for certain other conditions, including those undergoing
dialysis  treatment  or  suffering from diabetes, are medically predisposed to
OSA.

     Generally,  an  individual  seeking  treatment for the symptoms of OSA is
referred  by  a general practitioner to a specialist, such as a pulmonologist,
neurologist  or  psychiatrist  for  further  evaluation.  The diagnosis of OSA
typically  requires  monitoring  the  patient  during  sleep at either a sleep
clinic  or  the  patient's  home.    During  overnight  testing,  respiratory
parameters  and sleep patterns are monitored along with other vital signs such
as blood pressure, heart rate and blood oxygen levels. These tests allow sleep
clinicians  to  detect  any  sleep  disturbances  such as apneas, hypopneas or
subconscious  awakenings.

     The  Company  estimates  that  there  are currently more than 1,200 sleep
clinics  in  the  United States, a substantial portion of which are affiliated
with  hospitals.  Sleep clinics generally range in size from one to six beds. 
The  number of sleep clinics has expanded significantly from approximately 100
such  facilities  in  1985.  The Company believes that despite the increase in
sleep  clinics,  testing facilities currently remain inadequate to address the
large  population  of  undiagnosed  OSA  sufferers.

     Existing  Therapies

     Prior  to  1981,  the  primary  treatment  for  OSA  was a tracheotomy, a
surgical procedure to cut a hole in the patient's windpipe to create a channel
for  airflow.  Most  recently,  surgery  has  involved  either
uvulopalatopharyngoplasty ("UPPP"), in which surgery is performed on the upper
airway  to  remove excess tissue and to streamline the shape of the airway, or
mandibular  advancement,  in which the lower jaw is moved forward to widen the
patient's airway.  UPPP alone has a poor success rate; however, when performed
in  conjunction  with  mandibular advancement, a greater success rate has been
claimed.    This combined procedure, performed by highly specialized surgeons,
is  expensive  and  involves  prolonged  and  often  painful recovery periods.

     Nasal  CPAP  was  first  used as a treatment for OSA in 1980 by Dr. Colin
Sullivan,  the Chairman of the Company's Medical Advisory Board.  CPAP systems
were  commercialized  for  treatment  of  OSA  in the United States in the mid
1980's.    Today,  use  of nasal CPAP, although not a medical cure for OSA, is
generally  acknowledged as the most effective and least invasive treatment for
OSA, allowing the individual to enjoy a more normal sleep pattern. The Company
estimates that during 1995, CPAP treatment was prescribed for over 100,000 new
patients  in  the  United  States.
- -4-

     During nasal CPAP treatment, a patient sleeps with a nasal mask connected
to  a  small  portable  air  flow  generator  that  delivers  room  air  at  a
predetermined  positive  pressure.    The patient breathes in air from the air
flow  generator  and  breathes  out  through  an  exhaust  port  in the mask. 
Continuous  air  pressure applied in this manner acts as a pneumatic splint to
keep  the  upper  airway open and unobstructed.  Upon diagnosis of OSA and the
decision  to  prescribe CPAP treatment for an OSA sufferer, the physician must
determine  an appropriate pressure setting for the CPAP device.  This pressure
titration  (adjustment)  procedure  typically occurs in the sleep clinic while
the  patient sleeps using the CPAP device, and a technician manually increases
the pressure until sleeping and breathing are normalized.  After determination
of  the  proper  therapeutic  pressure, the patient is prescribed a nasal CPAP
device  set  to  that  pressure  for  home  use.

     CPAP  is  a treatment and not a cure for OSA, and therefore, must be used
on  a  nightly  basis for life.  Patient compliance has been a major factor in
the  efficacy  of  CPAP  treatment.   Early generations of CPAP units provided
limited  patient  comfort and convenience.  Patients experienced soreness from
the  repeated  use  of  nasal masks and had difficulty falling asleep with the
CPAP  device  operating  at  the  prescribed  pressure.    Recently,  product
innovations  to  improve  patient  comfort and compliance have been developed.
These  include  more  comfortable  mask  systems, delay timers which gradually
raise  air  pressure  allowing  the  patient  to  fall asleep more easily, and
bi-level  air  flow  generators  which  provide  different  air  pressures for
inhalation  and  exhalation.

     Business  Strategy

     The  Company believes that the number of OSA patients receiving treatment
will  increase  in  the  future  due  to  several factors, including increased
awareness of OSA, an increase in the number and capacity of sleep clinics, and
improved  products  for  the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of  OSA at home.  The
Company's  strategy  for  the expansion of its business operations consists of
the  following  key  elements.

     Continue  Product  Development and Innovation.  The Company believes that
it  is  a leading  innovator in nasal CPAP technology for the treatment of OSA
and that its continued product development and innovation will be a key factor
in  its  success.    Since  its  founding,  the Company has introduced product
advancements  and  improvements  designed  to  increase  patient  comfort  and
encourage  compliance,  such  as delay timers, heated humidifiers, and pliable
Bubble Masks(Trademark).  The  Company  is  currently  developing  a  range of
automatic  CPAP devices, including further  developments of its existing range
of AutoSet(Trademark) products, that are designed to  continually adjust  CPAP
pressure to meet changing individual patient's needs and to eliminate the need
for  manual  pressure  titration.

     Expand Market Presence.  The Company currently markets its products in 40
countries  through a network of independent distributors, the Company's direct
sales  force  and  manufacturers'  representatives.    The  Company intends to
increase  its sales and marketing efforts in its current markets, particularly
Europe  and  the  United  States,  as  well  as to continue expansion into new
countries.
- -5-

     Increase  Public  and Clinical Awareness.  The Company intends to promote
awareness of the prevalence of, and treatment alternatives for, OSA with three
main  groups:  (1) the population with predisposition to OSA; (2) primary care
physicians and other specialists, such as cardiologists and anesthesiologists;
and  (3)  special interest groups, such as sleep disorder support groups.  The
Company  is  working with other physicians to explore new medical applications
for nasal CPAP, including the treatment of post-operative surgery patients and
pediatric  patients,  such  as  premature babies and infants at risk of Sudden
Infant  Death  Syndrome.

     Products

     The  Company  designs,  manufactures and markets nasal CPAP equipment for
the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of  OSA.    These products consist of air flow
generators,  which  are small, portable devices that provide a preset positive
airway  pressure,  air  delivery  systems that include nasal masks, tubing and
headsets  that  connect  the  airflow  generator  to  the  patient and AutoSet
diagnostic equipment.  In addition, the Company markets accessories to improve
patient  comfort, convenience and compliance, such as heated humidifiers.  The
Company  also distributes Compumedics laboratory and portable sleep diagnostic
products.

     Air  Flow  Generators

     The Company manufactures and markets a broad range of air flow generators
which  are sold to the end user at prices which vary from approximately $1,000
to  $3,000, depending primarily upon the model, features and country of sale. 
Air  flow  generators  accounted  for  approximately  61%,  66% and 68% of the
Company's  net  revenues  in  1994,  1995  and  1996,  respectively.

     CPAP.    The  Company's  CPAP  air  flow  generators  consist  of  the
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  III,  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  IV and
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  V series.  The SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark)
III,  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  IV and SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) V
offer a range of enhancements to the Company's initial CPAP products, released
in 1989 and 1991.  The Company's primary air flow generator prior to July 1995
was  the  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  III,  which  weighs  less than five
pounds,  is about four inches high and conveniently fits under most beds.  The
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark) V range of flow generators which feature a 20%
reduction in physical size when compared to the SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark)
III  was  introduced  in  July  1995  and  is  now the Company's main air flow
generator  product.    The  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  V  line  of  flow
generators  consists  of  three  individual models with each model providing a
range  of  features  depending  upon  the  needs  of  patients.    Each  model
continuously  delivers  a  fixed  positive  pressure air flow to the patients.

     VPAP(Registered  Trademark).    Since  the  introduction  of  the 
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  VPAP(Registered  Trademark) flow generator in
1994,  the  Company has released a number of Variable Positive Airway Pressure
(VPAP)  flow  generators which it believes improve patient comfort by applying
different  air  pressures  for  inhalation and exhalation.  These features are
particularly beneficial for those patients with impaired breathing ability who
need high levels of air pressure for inhalation as well as less resistance for
exhalation.

     At  June  1996  the  Company  had  two  main  VPAP  flow  generators, the
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  VPAP(Registered  Trademark)II  and  
SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) Comfort.  Both units  were released in  March 
1996 and feature  improved pressure  switching and  reduced  noise.  In August
1996  the  Company  received FDA  approval  for the marketing and sale  of the
VPAP(Registered Trademark)II ST flow generator, a bilevel pressure 
VPAP(Registered  Trademark) device with  timed and spontaneous/timed breathing
modes of operation.
- -6-

     Air  Flow  Generators  Under  Development.  The Company is developing the
patented  AutoSet(Trademark)  CPAP  devices for home use which are designed to
automatically  adjust air pressure as needed on a breath by breath basis.  The
Company  markets  similar devices for use in sleep clinics (AutoSet(Trademark)
Clinical)  in  Europe  and  the  rest  of the world.  The Company obtained FDA
clearance  for  the  AutoSet(Trademark)  Clinical  in July 1996 which conducts
automated  assessment  of  sleep  apnea  and  the  CPAP  pressure  required by
patients.  While conventional CPAP units operate at a fixed CPAP pressure, the
actual  pressure required for effective treatment of OSA can vary depending on
factors  such  as  weight  change, alcohol consumption, sedative use, stage of
sleep  and body position.  The AutoSet(Trademark) device is designed to detect
the  patient's  level  of  airway resistance and to continually adjust the air
pressure  to  the  appropriate  therapeutic  level  throughout the night.  The
Company is developing a version of AutoSet(Trademark) which will record airway
resistance  and  actual levels of therapeutic air pressure during home use for
later review by sleep physicians for diagnostic purposes.  The Company is also
developing  a  CPAP  device  for  use with infants and children, the pediatric
CPAP,  which  incorporates  features  such  as  tamper-resistant  controls and
certain  alarms.


- -7-

The Company provides optional features including a patented delay timer, which
allows  the patient to select the time over which a gradual transition to full
therapeutic  pressure  is  achieved,  allowing the patient to fall asleep more
easily.    Another  feature, the SmartStart(Trademark) function, automatically
starts  airflow when the patient breathes into the mask and stops airflow upon
removal  of  the  mask.    Some  models  record  the number of hours a patient
receives  therapy,  permitting physicians to monitor patient compliance.  Most
units  come  equipped  with  a  carrying  bag  for  enhanced  portability.  In
addition,  every  unit  has  international  electric  voltage  compatibility.

     Mask  Systems,  Accessories  and  Other  Products

     Mask  systems, accessories and other products accounted for approximately
37%,  30%  and  30%  of  the  Company's  net  revenues in 1994, 1995 and 1996,
respectively.

     Mask  Systems

     The  Company's  mask system includes the mask frame, a nasal cushion, and
headgear  to  secure  the  nasal  cushion  to  the  face.

     The  Company's  Bubble  Mask(Trademark)  includes  a  patented  Bubble
Cushion(Trademark) which represents a significant advance in patient comfort. 
Introduced in 1991, the Bubble Cushion(Trademark) contains a silicone membrane
which  readily adjusts to a patient's facial contours.  Air pressure seals the
thin  membrane  around  the patient's nose, thereby minimizing air leakage and
the  possibility  of  skin  irritation  from  repeated  usage.   The Company's
headgear  includes  the  ResCap(Registered  Trademark)  which has a five-point
attachment  method  of  stabilizing  the  Bubble  Cushion(Trademark)  on  the
patient's  nose.

     In  addition,  in July 1995 the Company introduced the modular mask frame
which  features  T Bar forehead pads to prevent sideways movement of the frame
and  provide  maximum  stability.

     Typically, patients replace masks or mask cushions every 12 to 18 months,
at  a  cost  of  approximately  $100-$200  depending  upon  the model.  Bubble
Masks(Trademark)  are  available  in  a  variety  of  sizes  and  are  sold
independently  of  the  Company's  air  flow  generators either as replacement
products  or  with other manufacturers' air flow generators.  The Company also
manufactures  the Bubble Mask(Trademark) on an OEM  basis for Nellcor Puritan
Bennett, one of its competitors.

     Accessories  and  Other  Products

     In  order  to  enhance  patient  comfort, convenience and compliance, the
Company  markets  a variety of other products and accessories.  These products
include  humidifiers  which  connect  directly with the CPAP and VPAP air flow
generator  to  moisten  (humidify)  and, if desired, heat air delivered to the
patient.    This  prevents  the  drying  of  nasal  passages  which  can cause
discomfort  upon  repeated  use  of  the  system.   Other optional accessories
include  carry  bags  to  carry portable flow generators, replacement filters.

     Clinical  Support

     The  Company  also manufactures products that are used primarily in sleep
clinics  and  hospitals to monitor key respiratory parameters.  These products
consist  of  CPAP  devices together with additional diagnostic tools to assist
clinicians  in the diagnosis of OSA and establishment of therapeutic pressures
necessary  to  treat  OSA  suffers.
- -8-

     CPAP  Clinical  Interface.    Introduced  in  October 1995, the Universal
Control  Unit  (UCU)  is  a  diagnostic  and monitoring device that is used by
clinicians  to  measure and adjust the pressures being delivered by either the
Company's  CPAP  or  VPAP  devices to a patient undergoing a sleep study.  The
clinical  interface allows the clinician to conduct this review and adjustment
from  a  remote location within the sleep lab.  In the United States, clinical
interface  devices  are  typically  provided to clinics by the Company without
charge  in  order to increase clinical awareness and interest in the Company's
products.

     The  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  Compliance  Application  (SCAN),
introduced  in  October  1995  comprises  the  software  necessary to download
compliance  data  from  flow  generators  with  recording  capabilities.    In
connection  with a modem, this product allows compliance data to be downloaded
from  a  flow  generator  in  a  patients name direct to the sleep laboratory.

     AutoSet(Trademark)  Clinical.   The Company's AutoSet(Trademark) Clinical
allows  the  clinical  real-time  observation  and  review  by  a clinician of
respiratory  parameters  during  a  sleep  study.  AutoSet(Trademark) Clinical
incorporates a PC-based monitoring device which permits real-time diagnosis of
patient  airway  resistance.   This device may also be used in the therapeutic
mode  for  automatic  breath-by-breath adjustment to maintain an open airway. 
AutoSet(Trademark)  Clinical received FDA clearance in July 1996.  The Company
is  currently  developing  an  AutoSet(Trademark)  CPAP  device  for  home use

     Product  Development

     The Company is committed to an ongoing program of product advancement and
development.    During  the  past  year,  the  Company  introduced several new
products, including SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) VPAPII, SULLIVAN(Registered
Trademark)  V,  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  Comfort,  AutoSet(Trademark)
Clinical  and  improved  nasal  masks.    Currently,  the  Company's  product
development  efforts  are  focused  on  automated  CPAP systems, improved mask
systems  and  manufacturing  cost-reduction  programs.

     The  Company  consults  with physicians at major sleep centers throughout
the  world  to  identify  technology  trends in the treatment of OSA.  Some of
these physicians currently serve on the Company's Medical Advisory Board.  New
product  ideas  are  also  identified by the Company's marketing staff, direct
sales  force,  network  of  distributors  and  manufacturers' representatives.
Typically, new product development is then performed by the Company's internal
development staff in collaboration with Dr. Sullivan and his colleagues at the
Royal  Prince  Alfred  Hospital,  the University of Sydney, and other research
groups  around  the  world.

     In each of the three fiscal years ended June 30, 1994, 1995 and 1996, the
Company  expanded  $1,546,000,  $1,996,000  and  $2,841,000  respectively,  on
research  and  development.

     Sales  and  Marketing

     The  Company  currently  markets  its  products  in  40 countries using a
network  of  distributors,  independent manufacturers' representatives and its
direct  sales force.  The Company attempts to tailor its marketing approach to
each  national market, based on regional awareness of OSA as a health problem,
physician  referral  patterns,  consumer  preferences  and local reimbursement
policies.

     North  America.  In the United States, the Company's marketing activities
are  conducted  through  a  field  sales organization comprised of 11   direct
sales  employees,  including  three  regional  sales  managers,  and   18
independent  manufacturers'  representatives'  organizations.    The Company's
United  States  field  sales  organization  markets  and  sells  the Company's
products primarily to more than 1,500 home health care dealer branch locations
throughout  the  United  States.    The  Company also  promotes and  markets 
its products  directly  to sleep clinics.  Patients  who  are diagnosed  with 
OSA and  prescribed  CPAP  treatment  are  typically  referred  by  
- -9-

the  diagnosing  sleep  clinic  to  a  home  health  care  dealer  to fill the
prescription.  The home health care dealer, in consultation with the referring
physician,  will  assist  the  patient  in  selecting  the equipment, fits the
patient  with  the appropriate mask and set the flow generator pressure to the
prescribed  level.    In the United States, sales employees and manufacturers'
representatives  are  managed  by  the  three  regional sales managers and the
Company's  national  sales  manager.    A  marketing  manager, responsible for
marketing in the United States and Canada, is based in the Company's office in
San  Diego.    The  Company's  Canadian sales are conducted through a Canadian
distributor.    Sales  in  North America accounted for 47%, 53% and 49% of the
Company's  total  net revenues for the fiscal year's ended June 30, 1994, 1995
and  1996,  respectively.

     Europe.    The  Company  markets  its  products  in  most  major European
countries.  In countries other than the United Kingdom, Germany and France, in
each  of  which  the  Company  has  fully owned subsidiaries, the Company uses
independent  distributors  to sell its products.  These distributors have been
selected  in  each country based on their knowledge of respiratory medicine as
well  as  a  commitment  to  nasal CPAP therapy.  In each country in which the
Company  has  a  subsidiary  a  local senior manager is responsible for direct
national  sales.    The  Group's  Senior  Vice  President,  is responsible for
coordination  of  all  European  distributors  and,  in conjunction with local
management,  the  direct  sales  activity in Europe.  In addition, the Company
uses  a consultant in Switzerland to assist in sales and marketing efforts for
selected  European  countries.  Sales in Europe accounted for 30%, 29% and 36%
of the Company's total net revenues for the fiscal year's ended June 30, 1994,
1995  and  1996,  respectively.

     Australia/Rest  of  World.    Prior  to  May  1994,  the  Company was the
exclusive  source  of  nasal  CPAP  air flow generator units in Australia as a
result  of  ResMed  Limited's  ownership of Dr. Sullivan's original nasal CPAP
patent.    This  patent,  which  covered  the CPAP method of treating, and the
device for treatment of, OSA, was challenged by the Australian distributor for
Respironics  and,  in  May 1994, was revoked by an Australian appeals court in
reliance on issues specific to Australian patent law.  Such revocation permits
competitors to market CPAP products in Australia.  Consequently, the Company's
dominant  market  share  in  Australia has decreased in 1996.  In May 1996 the
Company  concluded  an  exclusive distribution agreement with Medical Gases of
Australia,  the  largest sleep medicine distributor in Australia, in an effort
to  secure  the Company's existing market position.  As part of this agreement
the  Company  agreed  to  cease  direct  sales  activities  in  Australia.

     Marketing  in  the  rest  of  the world is the responsibility of the Vice
President  of  Sales  and  Marketing  based  in  Sydney,  Australia.  Sales in
Australia  and  the  rest  of  the world accounted for 23%, 18% and 15% of the
Company's  total  net revenues for the fiscal year's ended June 30, 1994, 1995
and  1996,  respectively.

     Medical Gases of Australia accounted for approximately 18%, 10% and 7% of
net  sales  in 1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively, and another customer, Priess
Med  Technik,  prior  to the acquisition of its business by ResMed in February
1996,  accounted  for approximately 19%, 15% and 8% of net sales in 1994, 1995
and  1996,  respectively.
- -10-

     Manufacturing

     The  Company  performs  its  manufacturing  operations at its facility in
Sydney,  Australia.   The Company's manufacturing operations consist primarily
of  assembly  and  testing  of  the  Company's  air flow generators, masks and
accessories.    Of  the numerous raw materials, parts and components purchased
for  assembly  of  the  Company's  diagnostic  and  therapeutic sleep disorder
products,  most  are  off-the-shelf  items  available  from multiple vendors. 
Several  components,  such as printed circuit boards and plastic moldings, are
produced  by  third  parties to meet certain specifications established by the
Company.    Two  key  components  of  each  of  the Company's CPAP devices are
purchased  from  two  single  source  suppliers.    The  Company  is currently
qualifying  additional  sources of supply for these components.  The Company's
quality  control  group  performs  tests at various steps in the manufacturing
cycle  to ensure compliance with the Company's specifications.  See Note 13 to
Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statement.

     The  Company  generally  manufactures to its internal sales forecasts and
fills  orders as received and as a result has no significant backlog of orders
for  its  products.    The  Company  uses  management  information  systems to
integrate  its  manufacturing  planning,  billing  and  accounting  systems.

     Service  and  Warranty

     The  Company  offers  one-to-two  year  limited warranties on its airflow
generator  products.    Warranties  on  mask systems are for 90 days.  In most
markets,  the  Company  relies  on  its  distributors  to repair the Company's
products  with  parts  supplied  by  the  Company.  In the United States, home
health  care  dealers  generally arrange shipment of products to the Company's
San  Diego  facility  for  repair.

     The  Company  has  received  returns  of  its products from the field for
various  reasons.    The  Company  believes  that  the level of returns it has
experienced  to  date  is  consistent  with  levels  typically  experienced by
manufacturers  of  similar  devices.   The Company provides for warranties and
returns  based  on  historical  data.

     Patents  and  Proprietary  Rights  and  Related  Litigation

     The  Company, through its subsidiary ResMed Limited, owns or has licensed
rights to five issued United States patents and eleven issued foreign patents.
 In  addition,  there  are  six  pending United States patent applications and
twelve  pending  foreign patent applications. Some of these patents and patent
applications  relate  to  significant  aspects  and  features of the Company's
products.    These  include  United States patents relating to CPAP devices, a
delay  timer  system,  the  Bubble Mask, and an automated means of varying air
pressure  based  upon  a  patient's changing needs during nightly use, such as
that  employed  in the Company's AutoSet Device.  No patents are due to expire
in  the  next  five  years.

     The  Company  relies  on  a  combination  of  patents,  trade  secrets,
non-disclosure  agreements and proprietary know-how to protect its proprietary
technology  and  rights.    ResMed  Limited is pursuing an infringement action
against  one  of  its  competitors  (Respironics,  Inc.)  and is investigating
possible  infringement  by  others.

     In  October  1994,  in  Australia, a patent held by ResMed was revoked on
appeal  on the grounds that the patent was not entitled to claim priority to a
"provisional" application, which was filed before the inventor's publication. 
As  a result of this claim, ResMed based in part on advice from legal counsel,
at June 30, 1994 accrued approximately $300,000 for costs associated with this
patent  litigation which remains outstanding at June 30, 1996.  This amount is
included  in  accrued  expenses  on  the  consolidated  balance  sheet.
- -11-

     Additional  litigation  may be necessary to enforce patents issued to the
Company, to protect the Company's proprietary rights, or to defend third-party
claims  of  infringement  by the Company of the proprietary rights of others. 
Patent  laws  regarding  the  enforceability  of  patents vary from country to
country.    Therefore,  there  can  be no assurance that patent issues will be
uniformly  resolved,  or  that  local  laws  will  provide  the  Company  with
consistent  rights  and  benefits.

     ResMed Limited is also defending alleged breaches of the Australian Trade
Practices  Act  in  a  suit,  claiming  damages  of $730,000 brought in Sydney
Australia  by  Respironics  and  their  Australian  distributor.   This action
relates  to  ResMed  Limited  exercising its rights to the Australian original
CPAP  patent,  which  was  revoked  by the Federal Court of Australia in 1994.

     Third-Party  Reimbursement

     The  cost of medical care is funded in substantial part by government and
private  insurance  programs.  Although the Company does not generally receive
payments for its products directly from these payors, the Company's success is
dependent  upon  the  ability of patients to obtain adequate reimbursement for
the Company's products.  In most markets, the Company's products are purchased
primarily  by home health care dealers, hospitals or sleep clinics, which then
invoice  third-party  payors  directly.

     In  the  United States, third-party payors include Medicare, Medicaid and
corporate health insurance plans.  These payors may deny reimbursement if they
determine  that  a  device  has not received appropriate FDA clearance, is not
used  in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, or is experimental,
unnecessary  or  inappropriate.    Third-party  payors  are  also increasingly
challenging  prices  charged  for  medical  products and services, and certain
private  insurers  have  initiated  reimbursement  systems  designed to reduce
health  care  costs.  The trend towards managed health care and the concurrent
growth  of HMOs which could control or significantly influence the purchase of
health  care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform
health  care,  may  result  in  lower  prices  for  the  Company's  products.

     In  some  foreign  markets, such as Spain, France and Germany, government
reimbursement  is  currently available for purchase or rental of the Company's
products subject, however, to constraints such as price controls or unit sales
limitations.

     In Australia and in other foreign markets, such as the United Kingdom and
Japan,  there  is currently limited or no reimbursement for devices that treat
OSA.

     Government  Regulations

     The  Company's  products are subject to extensive regulation particularly
as  to  safety,  efficacy  and  adherence to FDA Good Manufacturing Procedures
(GMP)  and  related  manufacturing  standards.    Medical  device products are
subject  to  rigorous  FDA  and  other  governmental agency regulations in the
United  States  and  regulations of relevant foreign agencies abroad.  The FDA
regulates  the  introduction,  manufacture,  advertising, labeling, packaging,
marketing,  distribution,  and  record  keeping for such products, in order to
ensure  that  medical  products  distributed in the United States are safe and
effective  for  their  intended  use.    In addition, the FDA is authorized to
establish  special  controls to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and
effectiveness of most devices.  Noncompliance with applicable requirements can
result  in import detentions, fines, civil penalties, injunctions, suspensions
or  losses  of  regulatory approvals, recall or seizure of products, operating
restrictions, refusal of the government to approve product export applications
or allow the Company to enter into supply contracts, and criminal prosecution.
- -12-

     The FDA requires that a manufacturer  introducing a new medical device or
a new indication for use of an existing medical device obtain either a Section
510(k)  premarket notification clearance or a premarket approval ("PMA") prior
to  it  being  introduced  into  the  market. The Company's products currently
marketed  in  the  United  States  are  marketed  in  reliance  on  a  510(k)
pre-marketing  clearance.  The process of obtaining a Section 510(k) clearance
generally requires the submission of performance data and often clinical data,
which  in  some  cases  can  be  extensive,  to demonstrate that the device is
"substantially equivalent" to a device that was on the market prior to 1976 or
to a device that has been found by the FDA to be "substantially equivalent" to
such  a  pre-1976  device.  As a result, FDA clearance requirements may extend
the  development  process  for a considerable length of time.  In addition, in
some  cases, the FDA may require additional review by an advisory panel, which
can  further lengthen the process.  The PMA process, which is reserved for new
devices  that are not substantially equivalent to any predicate device and for
high risk devices or those that are used to support or sustain human life, may
take  several  years  and requires the submission of extensive performance and
clinical  information.

     As a medical device manufacturer, the Company is subject to inspection on
a  routine  basis  by  the  FDA  for  compliance  with  the  FDA's current GMP
regulations  which  impose  procedural  and  documentation  requirements  with
respect to manufacturing and quality control activities.  The Company believes
that  its  manufacturing  and quality control procedures meet the requirements
for  the  regulations.

     Sales  of  medical  devices  outside  the  United  States  are subject to
regulatory  requirements  that  vary widely from country to country.  The time
required  to obtain approvals by foreign countries may vary from that required
for  FDA  approval.

     Competition

     The  markets  for  the  Company's  products  are highly competitive.  The
Company  believes that the principal competitive factors in all of its markets
are  product  features,  reliability  and  price.    Reputation  and efficient
distribution  are also important factors.  Patent protection could also become
an  important  issue  in  the  future.

     The  Company competes on a market-by-market basis with various companies,
some of which have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company.
 In  the  United  States,  its  principal  market,  Respironics,  Healthdyne
Technologies,  DeVilbiss  and  Nellcor  Puritan  Bennett  are  the  primary
competitors for the Company's CPAP products.  The Company's principal European
competitors  are  also  Respironics,  Healthdyne  Technologies,  DeVilbiss and
Nellcor  Puritan  Bennett,  as  well  as  regional  European  manufacturers.

     Any  product developed by the Company that gains regulatory approval will
have  to  compete for market acceptance and market share.  An important factor
in  such  competition  may be the timing of market introduction of competitive
products.   Accordingly, the relative speed with which the Company can develop
products,  complete  clinical  testing  and  regulatory approval processes and
supply  commercial  quantities of the product to the market are expected to be
important  competitive  factors.
- -13-

     Employees

     As  of  June 30, 1996, the Company had 229 employees including eight full
time consultants, 111 persons in warehousing and manufacturing, 28 in research
and  development,  54 in sales and marketing and 36 in administration.  Of the
Company's  employees  and consultants, 163 are located in Australia, 33 in the
United  States and 33 in Europe.  The Company believes that the success of its
business  will depend, in part, on its ability to attract and retain qualified
personnel.    None  of  the  Company's  employees  is  covered by a collective
bargaining  agreement.    The  Company believes that its relationship with its
employees  is  good.

Medical  Advisory  Board

The  Company has a Medical Advisory Board ("MAB") consisting of physicians and
scientists  specializing in the field of sleep disorders.  MAB members meet as
a  group  twice  a  year  with  members of the Company's senior management and
members  of  its  research  and marketing departments to advise the Company on
technology  trends  in  the   treatment of OSA and other developments in sleep
disorders medicine.  MAB members are also available to consult on an as-needed
basis  with the senior management of the Company.  MAB members are as follows:

Colin Sullivan, M.D., Ph.D., F.R.A.C.P., age 52, is the inventor of nasal CPAP
 for    treating  obstructive  sleep  apnea and is a thoracic physician at the
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital.  He is Professor of Medicine and Director of the
David Read Laboratory at the Sydney University Medical School.  He is a Fellow
of    the Royal Australian  College of Physicians and Director of the National
SIDS   Council Pediatric  Sleep  Laboratory at the Royal Alexandria Children's
Hospital,  Westmead.    Dr.  Sullivan  is the Chairman of the Medical Advisory
Board,  and  has  continued to contribute to the Company's innovation, product
development  and  clinical  testing.  He has authored over 100 papers in sleep
disorders    and  related  respiratory  areas and is on the editorial board of
several professional journals.  Dr. Sullivan's M.D. and Ph.D. degrees are from
the  University  of  Sydney  Medical  School.

William  C.  Dement,  M.D.,  Ph.D.,  age 69, is the Lowell W. and Josephine Q.
Berry  Professor  of  Psychiatry  and  Behavioral  Sciences  at  the  Stanford
University  School  of  Medicine  and Director of the Stanford Sleep Disorders
Clinic and Research Center.  He was Chairman of the USA National Commission on
Sleep  Disorders Research.  During the 1950's, Dr. Dement was part of the team
at  the    University  of  Chicago    that  discovered  REM sleep.  In 1970 he
established  the  first  sleep    disorders  clinic  in    which he introduced
polysomnography.    Dr.  Dement   has co-authored more than 400 papers and has
written  definitive    textbooks  on  sleep.   He is on the editorial board of
several  professional journals.  Dr. Dement is a graduate of the University of
Washington,  Seattle,  and  received  his  M.D.  and  Ph.D.  degrees  from the
University  of  Chicago.

Neil J. Douglas, M.D., F.R.C.P., age 48, is Reader in Medicine and Respiratory
Medicine,  University  of Edinburgh, an Honorary Consultant Physician, Lothian
Health  Board  and  Director,  Scottish   National  Sleep Laboratory.  He is a
member  of the Action on Smoking and Health Scotland Council and  the National
Panel  of  Specialists  for  Respiratory  Medicine.    He chairs the Ethics of
Medical  Research  Volunteer Studies Sub-Committee of Lothian Health Board and
is  a  member  of  the  Working  Party  on Sleep Apnea of the Royal College of
Physicians  of  London.    He  is the author of over 100 papers in the area of
sleep  and  pulmonary medicine.  Dr. Douglas has a M.D. from the University of
Edinburgh.
- -14-

Ralph  Pascualy,  M.D., A.C.P., age 46, is Medical Director, Pacific Northwest
Sleep/Wake  Disorders  Center,  Providence  Medical  Center, Seattle.  He held
research  fellowships  in  psychiatry  prior  to a professional focus on sleep
disorders  medicine  in the early 1980s.  He was awarded the William C. Dement
Award  in  Sleep  Disorders Medicine in 1983 and became an Accredited Clinical
Polysomnographer in 1986.  Dr. Pascualy trained in sleep disorders medicine at
Stanford.    He  is Editor-in-Chief of the Research Newsletter of the Clinical
Sleep  Society, Chairs the National Insurance Committee and is a member of the
Technology  Committee  of  the  Association of Sleep Disorders Centers.  He is
also  a  member  of  the  Gerontological  Society,  the  American  Psychiatric
Association, and National Affairs Committee of the Association of Professional
Sleep  Societies.  He is a graduate of Columbia University and received a M.D.
from  the  State  University  of  New  York.

J.  Woodrow  Weiss  MD  age  47  is Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard
Medical  School,  as  well  as Physician Director, Pulmonary-Medical Intensive
Care  Unit  and  Co-Director  of  the  Sleep  Disorders  Center at Beth Israel
Hospital,  Boston.  His  main  research  interests  are  in the cardiovascular
consequences  of  sleep  and  sleep  apnea,  upper  airway  muscle control and
dyspnea.  Dr Weiss was in intern and resident at the University of California,
San Francisco and completed research fellowships at both Dartmouth and Harvard
Medical  Schools;  he  is  an  internationally- recognized researcher in sleep
disorders  medicine.  He  holds  a BA from Harvard and an MD from Case Western
Reserve  School  of  Medicine.

B.  Tucker  Woodson  MD FACS age 39 is an Otolaryngologist and is an Associate
Professor  of  Surgery  at the Medical College of Wisconsin. He is a Fellow of
the  American  Academy  of  Otolaryngology  -  Head  and  Neck Surgery and did
surgical training with Dr. Fujite, the pioneer of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty to
treat  obstructive  sleep  apnea.  He  has  a primary research interest in the
surgical  management of sleep apnea but is also a proponent of nasal CPAP. Dr.
Woodson  did  his  surgical training in otolaryngology at Detroit's Henry Ford
Hospital  and  holds a BA from Washington University, St. Louis and an MD from
the  University  of  Missouri,  Columbia.

Clifford  W.  Zwillich,  M.D.,  age  56,  is  Chief, Division of Pulmonary and
Critical   Care  Medicine,  Pennsylvania  State  University, and Distinguished
Professor of Medicine.  His major scientific interest is the body's control of
respiration.    He serves on the Editorial Boards of more than 10 journals and
is    active  in numerous  associations specializing in pulmonary medicine and
sleep   disorders.  Dr. Zwillich holds a B.A. degree from Hunter College and a
M.D.  from the University of Kansas.  He completed his senior residency at the
Harvard    Medical    School in the early 1970s  and then undertook a research
fellowship  at  the  University  of  Colorado  Health  Services  Center.

Members  of  the  Medical  Advisory  Board,  other  than Dr. Sullivan, receive
approximately  $1,000  per  month  and  all  members  receive reimbursement of
traveling  costs  and  other out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending such
industry  conferences  as  may  be  requested  by  the  Company.

Item  2          Properties

     The  Company's  principal  offices are located in Sydney, Australia, at a
leased  facility of approximately 46,000 square feet.  This facility is leased
through  1999 and contains approximately 28,000 square feet of assembly space,
and  approximately  18,000  square feet devoted to research and administration
offices.    The  Company  believes  that this facility is adequate to meet its
requirements  at  least  through early 1998.  Sales and warehousing facilities
are  also  leased in San Diego, California, Oxford, England, Moenchengladbach,
Germany  and  Lyon,  France.
- -15-

Item  3.          Legal  Proceedings

     The  Company  is  currently  engaged  in  significant  patent  litigation
relating to the enforcement and defense of certain of its patents. In 1992 the
Company's  original  Australian  patent,  which  was due to expire in 1998 and
covered  the CPAP method of treating, and the device for treatment of OSA, was
challenged  by  the  Australian  distributor  for Respironics, Inc. and in May
1994,  was  revoked  by  an  Australian  appeals  court  in reliance on issues
specific  to  Australian  patent  law. The Company's market share in Australia
decreased  in  1995  and  1996 and the Company expect that its market share in
Australia  will  continue  to  decrease.    At  June 30, 1996, the Company had
accrued  approximately $300,000 for estimated additional costs associated with
this  litigation.

     In January 1995, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in
the  United  States against Respironics.  The complaint seeks monetary damages
from,  and  injunctive  relief  against Respironics resulting from its alleged
infringement of three of the Company's patents.  In February 1995, Respironics
filed  a  complaint  against  the  Company seeking a declaratory judgment that
Respironics  does  not infringe claims of these patents and that the Company's
patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The two actions have been combined and
will  proceed  in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.  In June  1996 the Company initiated a  further  action  in 
Pennsylvania  against  Respironics  regarding  alleged  infringement  of  the 
Company's  continuation patent, granted June  4, 1996, related  to the delayed 
timer feature.  The action  is continuing and is expected to be defended by 
Respironics.  Management believes based in part on advice from legal counsel,
that  this  action  will  not  have  a  material  impact  on the operations or
financial  position  of  the  Company.  

     On  May  17,  1995,  Respironics  and  its Australian distributor filed a
Statement  of  Claim  against the Company and Dr. Peter Farrell in the Federal
Court  of  Australia.  The Statement of Claim alleges that the Company engaged
in  unfair  trade practices, including the misuse of the power afforded by its
Australian patents and dominant market position in violation of the Australian
Trade  Practices  Act.    The  Statement of Claim asserts damage claims in the
aggregate amount of approximately $730,000, constituting lost profit on sales.
 While  the  Company  intends to defend this action, there can be no assurance
that  the  Company  will  be  successful  in defending such action or that the
Company  will  not be required to make significant payments to the claimants. 
Furthermore,  the  Company  expects  to incur ongoing legal costs in defending
such  action.

Item  4          Submission  of  Matter  to  a  Vote  of  Security  Holders

     None

                                   PART II



     As of September 23, 1996, there were approximately 122 holders of record
of the Company's Common Stock  The Company does not intend to declare any cash
dividends  in  the  foreseeable  future.
- -16-






- -17-

Item  7       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results  of  Operations

     Management's  discussion  and analysis of financial condition and results
of  operations  should be read in conjunction with the selected financial data
and  consolidated  financial  statements  and notes thereto included elsewhere
herein.

     The  Company  designs,  manufactures and markets nasal CPAP equipment for
the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of obstructive sleep apnea.  The Company's net
revenues  are generated from the sale of its various nasal CPAP devices, nasal
mask  systems,  accessories  and  other products, and, to a lesser extent from
royalties.    The  Company  receives other income through interest and certain
Australian  government  grants.

     Prior  to  1992,  the  Company marketed its products in several countries
primarily  through  independent  distributors.    In  May  1992,  the  Company
terminated  its  United  States  distributor,  and  acquired certain inventory
maintained  by  the  distributor,  employed  four  of  the distributor's sales
employees,  and  issued  stock  options  to  the  distributor,  which  were
subsequently  repurchased  by  the  Company  in  October  1993.    After  such
termination, the Company established a direct sales force in the United States
and  developed a network of independent sales representatives.  In early 1992,
the  Company commenced in-house manufacturing operations, consisting primarily
of  assembly activities, at its Sydney, Australia facility.  This facility was
expanded  in  December  1994  and  during  fiscal  1996.

     The  Company  has  invested  significant  resources  in  research  and
development  and  product  enhancement.  Since 1989, the Company has developed
several  innovations  to  the original CPAP device to increase patient comfort
and  to  improve ease of product use. The Company has recently been developing
products  for  automated  treatment  and  monitoring  of  OSA,  such  as
AutoSet(Trademark).    The  Company's  research  and  development expenses are
subsidized  in  part  by grants and tax incentives from the Australian federal
government.   The Company has also received grants from the Australian federal
government  to  support marketing efforts to increase Australian export sales,
and  for  incorporation  of  computer  components  into  its  products.  Given
Australian  Government  regulations  the  Company  does  not expect to receive
future  Australian  export  sales  grants.

     The  Company's  income tax rate is governed by the laws of the regions in
which  the  Company's income is recognized.  To date, a substantial portion of
the  Company's  income  has  been subject to income tax in Australia where the
statutory rate prior to June 30, 1995 was 33%, increased to 36% effective July
1,  1995.  During fiscal 1994, 1995 and 1996, the Company's effective tax rate
has  fluctuated  from  approximately  25%  to  approximately  33%.    These
fluctuations  have  resulted  from, and future effective tax rates will depend
upon,  numerous  factors,  including  the  amount  of research and development
expenditures for which a 150% Australian tax deduction is available, the level
of  non-deductible  expenses,  and  the  use  of  available net operating loss
carryforward  deductions  and  other  tax credits or benefits available to the
Company  under  applicable  tax  laws.

     Following  is  a  comparative discussion by fiscal year of the results of
operations  for  the  three  years  ended  June  30,  1996.
- -18-

     Fiscal  Year  Ended June 30, 1996 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended  June 30,

     Net  Revenues.    Net  revenues increased in fiscal 1996 to $34.6 million
from  $23.5  million  in  fiscal 1995, an increase of $11.1 million or 47.1%. 
This  increase  was primarily attributable to an increase in unit sales of the
Company's  flow  generators  and  accessories  in  Europe  where  net revenues
increased to $12.4 million from $6.8 million and, to a lesser extent, in North
America, where net revenues increased to $16.8 million from $12.5 million.  In
addition,  net revenues were affected favorably by a product mix shift to new,
higher-priced  products  such  as  Sullivan VPAPII.  This favorable effect was
partially  offset  by  a  decrease in the selling prices of the Company's CPAP
products  in  most  geographic  markets.

     Gross  Profit.    Gross  profit increased in fiscal 1996 to $17.6 million
from  $12.2  million  in  1995,  an  increase  of  $5.4 million or 43.7%.  The
increase  resulted  primarily  from  increased unit sales during fiscal 1996. 
Gross  profit as a percentage of net revenues declined in fiscal 1996 to 50.8%
from  52.0%  in  1995.    The decrease was primarily due to an increase in the
value  of  the Australian Dollar relative to the US Dollar over the period and
continuing  price  competition  in  the  United  States,  where prices for the
Company's products are lower than elsewhere in the world.  The increased value
of  the  Australian  Dollar  increases  the  relative cost of manufacturing in
Australia  where  the  Company's  manufacturing  facilities  are  located.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative  Expenses.    Selling, general and
administrative  expenses  increased in 1996 to $11.1 million from $7.4 million
for  1995,  an  increase  of  $3.7  million  or 49.5%.  As a percentage of net
revenues,  selling,  general  and  administrative expenses increased in fiscal
1996  to  32.2%  from 31.7% for fiscal 1995.  The increase in expenses was due
primarily  to  the acquisition of the Company's German distributor in February
1996,  an  increase  to  87  from 58 in the number of sales and administrative
personnel, and other expenses related to the increase in the Company's sales. 
In  addition  the  Company incurred substantial legal fees with respect to its
ongoing  patent  action  of  $773,000,  and  $278,000  in  1996  and  1995,
respectively.

     Research  and  Development  Expenses.   Research and development expenses
increased  in fiscal 1996 to $2.8 million from $2.0 million in fiscal 1995, an
increase of approximately $800,000 or 42.3%.  As a percentage of net revenues,
research  and  development expenses in fiscal 1996 decreased to 8.2% from 8.5%
in  fiscal 1995.  The dollar increase in research and development expenses was
due  primarily  to  an  increase  in  research  and  development equipment and
external  consultancy  fees.

     Other Income.  Other income increased in fiscal 1996 to $3.0 million from
$994,000  for  fiscal  1995,  an  increase  of  $2.0  million or 198.4%.  This
increase  was  due primarily to the recognition of unrealized gains on foreign
currency  options  of  $961,000,  as a result of marking the options to market
which  arose from revaluation of the Australian Dollar over the year, and $1.1
million  of  interest  income  derived from funds generated from the Company's
June  2,  1995  initial  public  offering  of  common  stock.

     Income  Taxes.    The Company's effective income tax rate for fiscal 1996
increased  to  approximately  31.4% from approximately 25.1% for fiscal 1995. 
This  increase  was  primarily due to the an increase in the Australian income
tax rate from 33% to 36% from July 1, 1995 and high relative taxes incurred in
Germany.   These higher tax rates were partially offset by additional research
and  development  expenses  in Australia for which the Company received a 150%
deduction  for  tax  purposes.
- -19-


     Fiscal  Years  Ended  June  30,  1995  and  June  30,  1994

     Net  Revenues.    Net  revenues increased in fiscal 1995 to $23.5 million
from $13.9 million in fiscal 1994, an increase of $9.6 million or 69.6%.  This
increase  was  primarily  attributable  to  an  increase  in unit sales of the
Company's flow generators and accessories in North America, where net revenues
increased  to  $12.5  million  from  $6.5 million, and, to a lesser extent, in
Europe  where  net  revenues  increased to $6.8 million from $4.2 million.  In
addition,  net revenues were affected favorably by a product mix shift to new,
higher-priced  products  such  as  Sullivan  VPAP.   This favorable effect was
partially offset by a decrease in the selling prices of the Company's products
in  most  geographic  markets.

     Gross  Profit.    Gross  profit increased in fiscal 1995 to $12.2 million
from $7.6 million in 1994, an increase of $4.6 million or 60.0%.  The increase
resulted primarily from increased unit sales during fiscal 1995.  Gross profit
as a percentage of net revenues declined in fiscal 1995 to 52.0% from 55.2% in
1994.    The  decrease  was  primarily  due to an increasing percentage of the
Company's worldwide sales occurring in the United States, where prices for the
Company's  products are lower than elsewhere in the world.  In addition, gross
profit  as  a  percentage  of  net revenues declined due to an increase in the
value of the Australian Dollar relative to the United States Dollar during the
period.    This  increased  the relative cost of manufacturing which occurs in
Australia.    Also  contributing to the decrease was the introduction of a new
lower  margin  humidifier  manufactured  by  a  third  party  for the Company.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative  Expenses.    Selling  general and
administrative  expenses  increased  in 1995 to $7.4 million from $4.8 million
for  1994,  an  increase  of  $2.6  million  or 54.9%.  As a percentage of net
revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses declined in fiscal 1995
to  31.7%  from  34.7%  for  fiscal  1994.    The increase in expenses was due
primarily  to  an  increase  to  58  from  34  in  the  number  of  sales  and
administrative  personnel,  and  other expenses related to the increase in the
Company's  sales.  Rent and leasehold expenses also increased primarily due to
a  substantial  increase in the size of the Company's Australian facility.  In
addition,  fiscal 1994 included $311,000 of expenses associated with the grant
of  compensatory stock options and the establishment of a $300,000 reserve for
estimated  cost  associated  with  the Company's Australian patent litigation.

     Research  and  Development  Expenses.   Research and development expenses
increased  in fiscal 1995 to $2.0 million from $1.5 million in fiscal 1994, an
increase of approximately $500,000 or 29.1%.  As a percentage of net revenues,
research  and development expenses in fiscal 1995 decreased to 8.5% from 11.2%
in  fiscal 1994.  The dollar increase in research and development expenses was
due primarily to an increase in the average number of research and development
employees over the period to approximately 30 in fiscal 1995 from 20 in fiscal
1994.    This increase was also attributable to higher payments for consulting
fees  related  to  product  development  efforts.

- -20-

     Other  Income.    Other  income increased in fiscal 1995 to $994,000 from
$542,000 for fiscal 1994, an increase of $452,000 or 83.4%.  This increase was
due primarily to the recognition of income for the receipt in December 1994 of
an  up-front  payment  of  $189,000  from a Japanese company for the exclusive
rights  to  market  certain  respiratory  and related products in the Japanese
market  that  are  under  development by the Company.  In addition, government
grants  for fiscal 1995 increased to $527,000 from $440,000 for fiscal 1994 as
a  result  of  government  computer grant claims of $357,000 recognized by the
Company  on receipt of a favorable Australian government ruling in April 1995.

     Income  Taxes.    The Company's effective income tax rate for fiscal 1995
decreased  to  approximately  25.1% from approximately 32.7% for fiscal 1994. 
This  decrease  was  primarily  due to the Company's use of net operating loss
carryforward  deductions  available  to  offset  United States income, and the
additional  research  and  development  expenses  in  Australia  for which the
Company  received  a  150%  deduction  for  tax  purposes.

     Recent  Accounting  Developments

     In  March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  ("SFAS")  121,  "Accounting for the
Impairment  of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of,"
effective  for  fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15, 1995.  SFAS 121
provides  guidance for recognition and measurement of impairment of long-lived
assets,  certain  identifiable  intangible assets and goodwill related both to
assets to be held and used and assets to be disposed of.  The adoption of SFAS
121  is  not  expected  to  have  a material effect on the Company's financial
position  or    results  of  operations.

     In  October  1995,  the  Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS
123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation," effective for fiscal years
beginning  after  December  15,  1995.   Under the provisions of SFAS 123, the
Company is encouraged, but not required, to measure compensation costs related
to  its  employee stock compensation under the fair value method.  The Company
has  elected  not  to  recognize  compensation expense under this methodology.

The company will adopt the  proforma  method of disclosure under  SFAS 123  in
fiscal year ended June 30, 1997

     Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources

     As  of  June  30,  1996  and June 30, 1995, the Company had cash and cash
equivalents  and  marketable  securities  available  for sale of approximately
$23.5  million  and $23.8 million, respectively. The Company's working capital
approximated  $30.5  million and $27.4 million, respectively, at June 30, 1996
and  1995.  The  increase  in working capital balances reflects the net of the
receipt of approximately $4.5 million from the underwriter's exercise of their
over  allotment  arising  from  the Company's initial public offering less the
cash  used  to  fund  the  acquisition  of  two  European  distributors.
- -21-


     With  the  exception  of the proceeds of the initial public offering, the
Company  has  predominantly  financed  its operations and capital expenditures
through  cash  generated  from  operations  and through sales of common stock.
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 1996 and 1995, the Company's operations
generated approximately $3.4 million and $694,000, respectively more cash than
was  used  in  operations, primarily as a result of continued increases in net
revenues,  offset  in  part  by  increases  in  accounts receivable levels and
prepayments  during  1996.   However, cash and cash equivalents and marketable
securities available for sale decreased to $23.5 million at June 30, 1996 from
$23.8  million  at  June  30,  1995,  a  decrease  of  $300,000  after capital
expenditures.  During  fiscal  1996  and  1995  approximately  $468,000  and
$1,718,000  of  cash  was  received  from sales of common stock on exercise of
outstanding  options.

     The  Company's  June  30,  1996,  balance sheet also reflects significant
increases  in  the levels of inventory and accounts receivable over the levels
reflected  on  the June 30, 1995, balance sheet as a result of the acquisition
of  Priess  Medizintechnik  and  significant  increases in the Company's sales
during  the  period.

     The  Company's  capital  expenditures for the fiscal years ended June 30,
1996  and  1995  aggregated  $8.7  million and $1.8 million, respectively. The
majority  of  these  expenditures  were  for the purchase of the businesses of
Priess  Medizintechnik  and  Premium  Medical  for  $6.8  million, purchase of
production  tooling and equipment and, to a lesser extent, for the purchase of
office  furniture,  computers  and  research  and development equipment.  As a
result  the  Company's June 30, 1996 balance sheet reflects an increase in net
property  plant  and equipment to approximately $3.3 million at June 30, 1996,
from $2.0 million at June 30, 1995, an increase of approximately $1.3 million.

     The  results  of  the  Company's international operations are affected by
changes  in  exchange rates between currencies.  Changes in exchange rates may
negatively  affect  the  Company's  consolidated  net  sales  and gross profit
margins  from  international  operations.   The Company is exposed to the risk
that  the  dollar-value equivalent of anticipated cash flows will be adversely
affected  by  changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  The Company manages
this  risk  by  entering  into  foreign  currency  option  contracts.

     In May 1993, the Australian Federal Government agreed to lend the Company
up to $870,000 over a six year term. Such loan bears no interest for the first
three  years  and  will  bear  interest  at  a  rate  of 3.8% thereafter until
maturity.   The first repayment of loan funds will commence in November 1996. 
The  outstanding  principal  balance of such loan was $867,000 and $787,000 at
June  30,  1996  and  1995,  respectively.
- -22-




Item  9        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountant on Accounting and
Financial  Disclosure

     None

                                    PART III

Item  10          Directors  and  Executive  Officers  of  the  Registrant

     Incorporated  by reference to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  12,  1996 meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June 30, 1996.

Item  11          Executive  Compensation

     Incorporated  by reference to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  12, 1996  meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June 30, 1996.

Item  12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     Incorporated  by reference to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  12, 1996  meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June 30, 1996.

Item  13.          Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     Dr.  Colin  Sullivan, a member of the Company's Medical Advisory Board,
provides  consulting  services to the  Company  pursuant to a  Consulting 
agreement that terminates on December 31, 1997 ( subject to extension for an
additional five-year  term ) for which he receives annual payments  based on
the net sales ( as defined in the Consulting Agreement ) of certain  of  the
Company's   products  subject  to a $90,000 per annum minimum payment.  The
company  also  reimburses  Dr. Sullivan for his out-of-pocket expenses  in  
performing such consulting services. The Company has also agreed to pay such
amounts to Dr. Sullivan for a period of 24 months following the termination
of  his consulting relationship with the Company.  Total payments to  Dr. 
Sullivan were $147,000, $228,000 and $314,000 for the Company's fiscal years
ended  June  30,  1994,  1995  and  1996,  respectively.

- -23-


     Dieter  and  Helmke  Priess,  the  holders  of  approximately  4%  of the
outstanding  shares  of  common  stock of the Company, were the sole owners of
Priess  Medizintechnik,  the  distributor of the Company's products in Germany
until the Company purchased the business of Priess in February 1996.  Sales to
Priess  aggregated  approximately $2.6 million, $3.5 million and $2.8 million,
in  fiscal  1994,  1995  and  1996  (up  to  February  7,  1996  the  date  of
acquisition),  respectively.

     During  the  year  ended June 30, 1995, there were outstanding options to
purchase  up  to  421,900  shares  of  common stock of ResMed Holdings Limited
(RHL),  the  Company's  wholly  owned  subsidiary. The exercise prices of such
options  ranged from $0.38 to $9.10, with a weighted average exercise price of
$5.35.  The majority of such options were exercised for shares of common stock
of  RHL  and  each  such  share  was surrendered in exchange for 2.5 shares of
common  stock  of  the  Company.  As a result, RHL received $1,768,000 and the
Company  issued 857,750 shares of common stock to such holders. The balance of
such  options  were  exchanged  in  June  1995,  for options to purchase up to
197,000  shares  of common stock of the Company at an aggregate exercise price
of  approximately  $473,000.  At June 30, 1996 approximately 9,500 RHL options
remain  outstanding  with  an  aggregate  exercise  price  of  $3.64  each.

                                   PART IV

Item 14     Exhibits, Consolidated Financial Statements Schedule, and Reports
on  Form  8-K

a)          Report  on  Form  8-K

     The  Company  lodged  a  report  under  item 2 of Form 8-K and an amended
report  under  Item  2  of  Form  8-K on February 21, 1996 and April 26, 1996,
respectively,  to  reflect  the  acquisition  of  the  business  of  Priess
Medizintechnik on February 7, 1996.  Incorporated within the initial report on
Form 8-K and the amended report on Form 8-K, the Company lodged the following:

- -       Audited Financial Statements of Dieter W Priess Medizintechnik for the
years  ended  December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1994 and Independent Auditors
Report  thereon.

- -      Unaudited Proforma Combined Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
of ResMed, Inc. and Priess Medizintechnik as of December 31, 1995 for the year
ended  June  30,  1995  and  the  six  months  ended  December  31,  1995.

- -24-


Exhibits  thereto

2.1          Purchase Agreement dated February 7, 1996 between Dieter W Priess
Medizinische  technische  Ger  te  and  ResMed-Priess  GmbH  (I,  GR).

23.1          Consent  of  KPMG  Deutsche  Treuhand  Gesellschaft.

99.3          Press  Release,  dated February 12, 1996, issued by ResMed, Inc.


b)          The  following  documents  are  filed  as  part  of  this  report:

1.1          Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Schedule.

     The consolidated financial statements and schedule of the Company and its
consolidated  subsidiaries  are  set  forth  in  the  "Index  to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements"  under  Item  8  of  this  report.

3.       Exhibits.  The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report:

3.1          Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*
3.2          By-laws  of  Registrant*
4.1          Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*
10.1          1995  Stock  Option  Plan*
10.2          Licensing  Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*
10.3      Amended and Restated Consulting Agreement between Colin Sullivan and
ResMed  Limited  dated  September  2,  1994*
10.4         Loan Agreement between the Australian Trade Commission and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*
10.5          Lease  for  82  Waterloo  Road,  Sydney,  Australia*
10.6          Lease  for  5744  Pacific  Center  Boulevard,  San  Diego,  USA*
11.1          Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earning  per  Share
16.1          Letter  regarding  change  in  Certifying  Accountant*
21.1          Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1          Consent and Report on Schedules of KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
27.1          Financial  Data  Schedule


*      Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.


- -25-



                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc.:

We  have  audited  the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ResMed Inc.
and  subsidiaries  as  of June 30, 1995 and 1996, and the related consolidated
statements  of  income,  stockholders'  equity, and cash flows for each of the
years  in  the  three  year  period  ended  June 30, 1996.  These consolidated
financial  statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these consolidated financial
statements  based  on  our  audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted auditing
standards.    Those  standards  require  that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also  includes  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for  our  opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present  fairly,  in  all  material respects, the financial position of ResMed
Inc.,  and subsidiaries as of June 30, 1995 and 1996, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period
ended  June  30,  1996,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles.





                                 KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
San  Diego,  California          KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
August 12,  1996

- -F1-




- -F2-




- -F3-




- -F4-



- -F5-


                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

1.          ORGANIZATION  AND  BASIS  OF  PRESENTATION

      ResMed Inc. is a Delaware corporation formed in March 1994 as a holding
company for ResMed Holdings Ltd. ("RHL") (formerly ResCare Holding Limited), a
company  resident in Australia.  RHL designs, manufactures and markets devices
for  the  evaluation  and  treatment  of sleep disordered breathing, primarily
obstructive sleep apnea.  ResMed Inc.'s ("ResMed", or "the Company") principal
manufacturing  operations  are  located  in  Australia.    Other  principal
distribution and sales sites are located in the United States, United Kingdom,
Germany,  France  and  Europe.

     In  May  1994,  the  shareholders  of  RHL  approved a reorganization and
reincorporation  of  RHL  resulting  in  the  exchange  of  the  shares of the
outstanding  common  stock  of  RHL  for  the  shares of ResMed.  In addition,
effective  in March 1995, the Company effected a 5:2 stock split.  As a result
of  the  reorganization,  reincorporation  and  the  stock split, the accounts
within the consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to reflect
a  par  value  of  $.004  per  share.   The board of directors also authorized
2,000,000  shares  of  $0.01  par  value preferred stock.  No such shares were
issued  or  outstanding  at  June  30,  1996.

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES

     (a)          Basis  of  Consolidation:

          The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ResMed
and  its wholly owned subsidiaries.  All significant transactions and balances
have  been  eliminated  in  consolidation.

     (b)          Use  of  Estimates:

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make estimates and
assumptions  that  affect  the  reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure  of  contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements  and  the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and expenses during the
reporting  period.    Actual  results  could  differ  from  those  estimates.

     (c)          Revenue  Recognition:

          Revenue  on  product sales is recorded at the time of shipment, when
earned.    Royalty  revenue  from  license agreements is recorded when earned.

     (d)          Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents:

          Cash  equivalents include certificates of deposit, commercial paper,
and  other  highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months
or  less stated at cost, which approximates market.  Investments with original
maturities  of  three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents for
purposes  of  the  consolidated  statements  of  cash  flows.

     (e)          Inventories:

          Inventories  are stated at the lower of cost, determined principally
by  the  first-in,  first-out  method,  or  net  realizable  value.

- -F6-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (f)          Property  and  Equipment:

          Property and equipment is recorded at cost.  Depreciation expense is
computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
assets,  generally  two  to  ten  years.  Assets held under capital leases are
recorded  at  the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease payments
or  the  fair  value  of  the  leased  asset  at  the inception of the lease. 
Amortization  expense  is  computed  using  the  straight-line method over the
shorter  of  the  estimated  useful  lives  of the assets or the period of the
related lease.  Straight-line and accelerated methods of depreciation are used
for tax purposes.  Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.

     (g)          Patents:

          The registration costs for new patents are capitalized and amortized
over  the  estimated  useful life of the patent, generally five years.  In the
event  of  a  patent  being  superseded or deemed to have no future value, the
unamortized  costs  are  written  off  immediately.

     (h)          Goodwill:

          Goodwill  arising  from  business  acquisitions  is  amortized  on a
straight-line  basis  over periods ranging from five to 15 years.  The Company
carries  goodwill  at  cost  net  of  amortization.    The Company reviews its
goodwill  carrying  value  when  events  indicate  that an impairment may have
occurred  in  goodwill.   If, based on the undiscounted cash flows, management
determines  goodwill is overvalued, goodwill is written down to its discounted
cash  flow  value  and  the  amortization  period  is  re-assessed.

     (i)          Government  Grants:

          Government  grants  revenue  is recognized when earned.  Grants have
been  obtained by ResMed from the Australian Federal Government to support the
continued  development  and  export  of  ResMed's  proprietary positive airway
pressure  technology and to assist development of export markets in the amount
of $440,000, $527,000 and $537,000 for the years ended June 30, 1994, 1995 and
1996,  respectively.

     (j)          Foreign  Currency:

          The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  ResMed's  non-U.S.
subsidiaries  are  translated  into  U.S.  Dollars  for  financial  reporting
purposes.    The  assets  and  liabilities  of  non-U.S.  subsidiaries  whose
functional  currencies  are  other than the U.S. Dollar are translated at year
end  exchange  rates.    Income  statements are translated at weighted average
rate.    The  cumulative  translation  effects  are reflected in stockholders'
equity.    Gains  and  losses  on  transactions  denominated in other than the
functional  currency  of  the  entity  are  reflected  in  operations.

     (k)          Research  and  Development:

          All  research  and  development  costs  are  expensed  in the period
incurred.

- -F7-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (l)          Net  Income  per  Common  and  Common  Equivalent  Share:

          Primary  net  income  per common and common equivalent share and net
income  per  common  and  common  equivalent  share assuming full dilution are
computed  using the weighted average number of shares outstanding adjusted for
the  incremental  shares  attributed to outstanding options to purchase common
stock  as  determined  under  the  treasury  stock  method.

     (m)          Financial  Instruments  :

     The  carrying  value  of  financial  instruments,  such  as cash and cash
equivalents,  foreign currency option contracts, accounts receivable, accounts
payable,  marketable  securities  and  long-term  debt  approximate their fair
value.    The Company does not hold or issue financial instruments for trading
purposes.

     The  following  table  presents  the  carrying amounts and estimated fair
values  of  the  Company's financial instruments at June 30, 1995 and June 30,
1996.    The  fair  value of financial instruments is defined as the amount at
which  the  instrument  could  be  exchanged  in a current transaction between
willing  parties.




     The  carrying amounts shown in the table are included in the consolidated
balance  sheets  under  the  indicated  captions.

     (n)          Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management:

     The  Company  enters  into various types of foreign exchange contracts in
managing its foreign exchange risk, including derivative financial instruments
encompassing  forward  exchange  contracts  and  foreign  currency  options.

- -F8-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

(n)          Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management  (continued):

     The  purpose  of  the Company's foreign currency hedging activities is to
protect  the  Company  from adverse exchange rate fluctuations with respect to
net  cash  movements resulting from the sales of products to foreign customers
and  Australian  manufacturing  activities.    The Company enters into foreign
currency  option  contracts  to  hedge  anticipated sales principally in Pound
Sterling and Deutschmarks.  The term of such currency derivatives is generally
less  than  three  years.

     Premiums  to enter certain foreign currency options are included in other
assets  and are amortized over the period of the agreement in the consolidated
statement  of  income against other income, net.  At June 30, 1996 unamortized
premiums  amounted  to  $302,490.

     Unrealized gains or losses are recognized as incurred in the consolidated
balance  sheets as  either  other assets or other liabilities and are recorded
within  other  income, net on the Company's consolidated statement of income. 
Unrealized  gains  and  losses on currency derivatives are determined based on
dealer  quoted  prices.

     Foreign  currency  option  contracts  have  been purchased in part by the
issue  of  put  options to counterparts.  As a result, should foreign exchange
rates drop below specified levels, on a specific date, the Company is required
to deliver certain funds to counterparts at contracted foreign exchange rates.
 As  at  June  30,  1996  none  of  the  put options issued by the Company are
exercisable  as foreign exchange rates remain above the foreign exchange rates
specified.

     The  Company  is  exposed  to  credit-related  losses  in  the  event  of
nonperformance  by  counterparts  to  financial  instruments,  but it does not
expect  any  counterparts will fail to meet their obligations given their high
credit  ratings.    The  credit  exposure  of  foreign  exchange  options  is
represented  by  the  fair  value of options with a positive fair value at the
reporting  date.    The  Company  does not require collateral on its financial
instruments.

     At  June 30, 1996 the Company held foreign currency option contracts with
notional  amounts  totaling $43,595,350 to hedge foreign currency items. These
contracts  mature  at  various  dates  prior  to  December  31,  1999.

     (o)          Income  Taxes:

          ResMed  accounts  for  income  taxes  under  Statement of Accounting
Standards  No.  109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (Statement 109).  Statement
109  requires  an  asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. 
Under the asset and liability method of Statement 109, deferred tax assets and
liabilities  are  recognized  for  the future tax consequences attributable to
differences  between  the  financial  statement  carrying  amounts of existing
assets  and  liabilities  and their respective tax bases.  Deferred tax assets
and  liabilities  are  measured  using  enacted tax rates expected to apply to
taxable  income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected
to  be  recovered or settled.  Under Statement 109, the effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period  that  includes  the  enactment  date.

- -F9-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (p)          Marketable  Securities  Available  for  Sale:

          The  Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
115,  "Accounting  for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" (FAS
115),  on  July  1,  1994.  In accordance with FAS 115, prior years' financial
statements have not been restated to reflect the change in accounting method. 
There was no cumulative effect as a result of adopting FAS 115 in fiscal 1995.

          Management  determines  the  appropriate  classification  of  its
investments  in  debt  and  equity  securities  at  the  time  of purchase and
re-evaluates  such  determination at each balance sheet date.  Debt securities
for  which the Company does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity
are  classified  as  available  for  sale.   Securities available for sale are
carried  at  fair  value,  with  the  unrealized gains and losses, net of tax,
reported  in  a  separate component of shareholders' equity.  At June 30, 1995
and  1996, the Company had no investments that qualified as trading or held to
maturity.

          The  amortized  cost  of debt securities classified as available for
sale  is  adjusted  for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to
maturity.    Such  amortization and interest are included in interest income. 
Realized  gains  and losses are included in other income or expense.  The cost
of  securities  sold  is  based  on  the  specific  identification  method.

          At  June 30, 1996, the Company's investments in debt securities were
classified  on  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheet  as marketable
securities-available  for  sale.  These investments are diversified among high
credit  quality securities in accordance with the Company's investment policy.

3.          MARKETABLE  SECURITIES  -  AVAILABLE  FOR  SALE

     The  fair  value  of marketable securities available for sale at June 30,
1995  and  1996,  were  $20,510,000  and  $18,021,000,  respectively.    These
securities  have  contractual  maturity  dates  between  2002  and  2025.  The
estimated  fair  value of each investment approximates the amortized cost, and
therefore,  there  are  no  unrealized  gains or losses as of June 30, 1995 or
1996.

     Expected  maturities  may  differ from contractual maturities because the
issuers  of  the  securities  may have the right to prepay obligations without
prepayment  penalties.

- -F10-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

4.          INVENTORIES




5.          PROPERTY  AND  EQUIPMENT



- -F11-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

6.          ACCRUED  EXPENSES



7.          LONG-TERM  DEBT

     As  part  of  an  agreement  between  ResMed  and  the Australian Federal
Government,  ResMed  obtained  an $870,000 loan facility of which $787,000 and
$867,000   were outstanding at June 30, 1995 and 1996, respectively.  The loan
facility  is unsecured and accrues interest at 3.8% per annum beginning May 3,
1996  through  April  3,  1999.    The  facility  is  payable  in  six monthly
installments  beginning  November  3, 1996.  Prior to May 3, 1996, the loan is
interest  free.



8.          STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

     Initial  Public  Offering

     On  June  1,  1995,  the  Company completed an initial public offering of
2,000,000 new shares of common stock at a price of $11.00 per share, resulting
in net proceeds of approximately $18.9 million, after deducting issuance costs
of  $1.6  million.

     On  July  10,  1995,  the  underwriters  for  the  above-mentioned public
offering exercised their over-allotment of 450,000 new shares of common stock,
resulting  in  additional  net  proceeds  of approximately $4.5 million, after
deducting  issuance  costs  of  approximately  $347,000.

- -F12-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

8.          STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)

     Stock  Options

     Prior to the formation of the Company, RHL, a wholly owned subsidiary, at
the  discretion  of  the directors, from time-to-time granted stock options to
key  personnel,  including  officers,  directors and outside consultants.  The
options  granted  by  RHL  were  exchanged  for  options with similar terms to
purchase  common  stock of ResMed.  These options have expiration dates of two
to  five  years  from  the  date  of  grant  and  vested  immediately.

     On  June  1,  1995,  May  13,  1996 and June 27, 1996 the Company granted
235,000,  7,500 and 262,300 stock options respectively to personnel, including
officers and directors in accordance with the 1995 option plan.  These options
have  expiration  dates  of  ten  years from date of grant and vest over three
years.  The Company granted these options with the exercise price equal to the
market  value  as  determined  at  the  date  of  grant.



       During the year ended June 30,1994, ResMed repurchased 500,000 options
from  a  former  distributor  for  $348,000.  Expenses related to compensatory
options  granted  for  the  year  ended  June  30, 1994 was $322,000.  No such
expense  was  incurred  in  fiscal  1995  or  fiscal  1996.

- -F13-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

9.          OTHER,  NET



     In  November  1994,  the Company and an unrelated third-party     entered
into  a  marketing  rights agreement for the third-party to exclusively market
certain  respiratory  and related products under development by the Company in
the  Japanese  market.  Under  the  terms of the agreement, the third-party is
required  to  provide  up  to  $470,000  to the Company, of which $189,000 and
$242,000  has  been recognized in the consolidated statements of income during
the  years  ended  June 30, 1995 and June 30, 1996, respectively.  The amounts
recognized  were limited by certain performance requirements of the agreement.

10.          INCOME  TAXES






- -F14-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

10.          INCOME  TAXES  (CONTINUED)






- -F15-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

10.          INCOME  TAXES  (CONTINUED)

     The valuation allowance at June 30, 1995 and 1996, primarily relates to a
provision  for  uncertainty  as  to  the  utilization  of  net  operating loss
carryforwards.    The net change in the valuation allowance was an increase of
$59,000 and a decrease of $21,000 for the years ended June 30, 1994 and 1995. 
For  the  year  ended June 30, 1996, the net change in the valuation allowance
was a increase of $125,000.  The  measurement of tax assets and liabilities at
June  30  of  each  year,  reflect  foreign  currency translation adjustments,
changes  in  enacted  tax  rates and changes in temporary differences.  Income
taxes in 1995 were reduced by $11,000 through the utilization of net operating
loss  carryforwards.  Based on the Company's history of taxable income and its
projection  of  future  earnings,  it believes that it is more likely than not
that  sufficient taxable income will be generated in the foreseeable future to
realize  the  deferred  tax  asset.

     At  June  30,  1996, ResMed has net operating loss carryforwards for U.S.
federal  income  tax purposes of approximately $176,000 which are available to
offset  future  U.S. federal taxable income, if any, through 2010.  These have
not  been  brought to account as the entity involved has not generated taxable
income  to  date.

11.          EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLANS

     ResMed  contributes  to defined contribution (accumulation) pension plans
(the  plans)  as  required  by  Australian law covering all eligible employees
resident  in  Australia.   All Australian employees after serving a qualifying
period,  are  entitled  to  benefits  on  retirement,  disability  or  death. 
Employees may contribute additional funds to the plans.  ResMed contributes to
the  plans  at  the  rate  of  5%  -  5.5%  of  the salaries of all Australian
employees.   Additionally, certain executives, at their discretion, may direct
that  an  additional  percentage  of their total salary and benefit package be
contributed  to their individual plan account.  Total Company contributions to
the  plans,  for  the  years ended June 30, 1994, 1995 and 1996 were $131,000,
$157,000  and  $374,000,  respectively.

12.          SIGNIFICANT  CUSTOMERS

     ResMed's customers are located primarily in the United States, Europe and
Australia.    One  customer,  Medical  Gases  of  Australia,  accounted  for
approximately,  18%,  10%  and  7%  of  net  sales  in  1994,  1995  and 1996,
respectively,  and another customer, Priess, located in Germany, accounted for
approximately  19%,  15%  and  8%  of  net  sales  in  1994,  1995  and  1996,
respectively.    The  business of Priess was acquired by ResMed on February 7,
1996.

13.          DEPENDENCE  ON  KEY  SUPPLIERS

     The  Company  purchases  two key components for its CPAP devices from two
single  source  suppliers.    Management  is  attempting to qualify additional
sources of supply for these components however, there can be no assurance that
a  replacement  supplier  could be located on a timely basis or that available
inventories  would  be  adequate to meet the Company's production needs during
any  prolonged  interruption  of  supply.  The Company's supplier for one such
component is located in Europe.  Operations in Europe are subject to the risks
normally  associated  with  foreign  operations including, but not limited to,
possible  changes  in  export  or  import restrictions and the modification or
introduction of other governmental policies with potentially adverse effects. 
A  reduction  or  stoppage  in  supply,  or the Company's inability to develop
alternate  supply sources, if required, would limit its ability to manufacture
its  CPAP devices and therefore could adversely affect its business, financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.

- -F16-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

14.          GEOGRAPHIC  SEGMENT  INFORMATION

     ResMed  operates  primarily  in  the  respiratory  medicine  industry.  
Geographic  segments  have been classified into three regions; America, Europe
and  Australia/Rest  of  World.    North America includes the U.S., Canada and
South  America, Australia/Rest of World includes Australia, New Zealand, South
Africa  and  Asia.

     Financial  information  by geographic region for the years ended June 30,
1994, 1995 and 1996, is summarized below (in  thousands):






- -F17-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

14          GEOGRAPHIC  SEGMENT  INFORMATION  (CONTINUED)

     Net  revenues  which  represent  net  sales to unaffiliated customers, is
based  on  the  location of the customers.  Transfers between geographic areas
are  recorded at amounts generally above cost and in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the respective governing tax authorities.  Operating income
or  loss  consists  of  total  net sales less operating expenses, and does not
include  either interest and other income, net, or income taxes.  Identifiable
assets  of  geographic areas are those assets used in the Company's operations
in  each  area.

15.          RELATED  PARTY  TRANSACTIONS

     For  the  years  ended June 30, 1994, 1995 and 1996, legal and consulting
service  fees in the  amount of $414,000, $282,000 and $314,000, were paid to 
certain  directors  of  subsidiaries  and  director-related  entities and
shareholders

     Included in these amounts are payments made to Dr. Colin Sullivan for the
years  ended  June 30, 1994 and June 30, 1995 in which years he was a director
of  a  subsidiary.    Dr. Sullivan provides consulting services to the Company
pursuant  to  a  consulting  agreement  that  terminates  on December 31, 1997
(subject  to extension for an additional five year term) for which he receives
annual  payments  based  on  the  net  sales  (as  defined  in  the Consulting
Agreement)  of  certain  of  the  Company's products, subject to a $90,000 per
annum  minimum  payment.    The  Company  also reimburses Dr. Sullivan for his
out-of-pocket  expenses  in  performing  such  consulting  services.

     The  Company  has  also  agreed to pay such amounts to Dr. Sullivan for a
period  of  24 months following the termination of his consulting relationship
with the Company in exchange for his agreement not to compete with the Company
during  this  period.    Total  payments  to  Dr.  Sullivan were, $147,000,
$228,000 and $314,000 for the  Company's fiscal  years ended  June  30,  1994,
1995 and 1996, respectively.

16.          COMMITMENTS

     The  Company leased certain equipment and fixtures under capital leases. 
Included  in  property  and  equipment  are  approximately $62,000 and $Nil of
assets  held  under  capital  leases  at  June  30,  1995  and  June 30, 1996,
respectively.    Accumulated  amortization  related  to  leased  assets  was
approximately  $38,000  and  $Nil  at  June  30,  1995 and 1996, respectively.

     In addition, the Company also leases buildings, motor vehicles and office
equipment under operating leases.  Rental charges for these items are expensed
as  incurred.    At June 30, 1996 the Company had the following future minimum
lease  payments  under  non  cancelable  operating  leases.

- -F18-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996



       Rent expense under operating leases for the years ended June 30, 1994,
1995 and 1996 was approximately $104,000, $162,000 and $467,000, respectively.



- -F19-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996






- -F20-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1996

18.          LEGAL  ACTIONS

     In  October  1994,  in  Australia, a patent held by ResMed was revoked on
appeal  on the grounds that the patent was not entitled to claim priority to a
"provisional" application, which was filed before the inventor's publication. 
As  a result of this claim, ResMed based in part on advice from legal counsel,
at June 30, 1994 accrued approximately $300,000 for costs associated with this
patent  litigation which remains outstanding at June 30, 1996.  This amount is
included  in  accrued  expenses  on  the  consolidated  balance  sheets.

     In January 1995, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in
the  United  States  District  Court  against  Respironics  Inc.,  a  Delaware
registered  company.    In  response,  in  February  1995, Respironics filed a
complaint  against the Company that asserts, (i) Respironics does not infringe
the  subject  patents;  and  (ii)  that  the  subject  patents are invalid and
unenforceable.  In June  1996 the  Company  initiated a  further  action in 
Pennsylvania against  Respironics regarding  alleged infringement of the 
Company's  continuation patent, granted June 4, 1996, related to the delayed
timer  feature.  The action is continuing and is expected to be defended by 
Respironics.  Management  believes,  based  in  part  on advice from legal
counsel,  that  this  action  will  not  have a material adverse effect on the
operations  or  financial  position  of  the  Company.

     In May 1995, Respironics and its Australian distributor filed a statement
of  claim  against  the  Company  and  its  President  in the Federal Court of
Australia,  New South Wales District Registry.  The statement of claim alleges
that  the  Company  engaged in unfair trade practices, including the misuse of
the  power  afforded by its Australian patents and dominant market position in
violation  of  the  Australian  Trade  Practices  Act.  The statement of claim
asserts  damage  claims  in  the  aggregate  amount of approximately $730,000,
constituting  lost  profit on sales.  While the Company intends to defend this
action,  there  can  be  no  assurance  that the Company will be successful in
defending  such  action  or  that  the  Company  will  not be required to make
significant  payments  to  the claimants.  Furthermore, the Company expects to
incur  ongoing  legal  costs  in  defending  such  action.

19.          RECENT  ACCOUNTING  DEVELOPMENTS

     In  March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS")  No.  121,  "Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed of." 
Effective  for  fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15, 1995.  SFAS 121
provides  guidance for recognition and measurement of impairment of long-lived
assets,  certain  identifiable  intangible assets and goodwill related both to
assets to be held and used and assets to be disposed of.  The adoption of SFAS
121  is  not  expected  to  have  a material effect on the Company's financial
position  or  results  of  operations.

     In  October  1995,  the  Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS
123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation," effective for fiscal years
beginning  after  December  15,  1995.   Under the provisions of SFAS 123, the
Company is encouraged, but not required, to measure compensation costs related
to  its  employee stock compensation under the fair value method.  The Company
has elected not to recognize compensation expense under this methodology.  The
Company will adopt the pro forma method of disclosure under SFAS 123 in fiscal
year  ended  June  30,  1997.

- -F21-


                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934,  the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

DATED          ResMed  Inc.

     By: PETER C FARRELL
         _____________________
         Peter  C.  Farrell,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer
         (Principal  Executive  Officer)


     By:  ADRIAN M SMITH
          _____________________
          Adrian  M.  Smith,  Chief  Financial  Officer
          (Principal  Financial  Officer)







    Schedule  II







                                      EXHIBIT INDEX

2.1          Purchase Agreement dated February 7, 1996 between Dieter W Priess
Medizinische  technische  Ger  te  and  ResMed-Priess  GmbH  (I,  GR).

23.1          Consent  of  KPMG  Deutsche  Treuhand  Gesellschaft.

99.3          Press  Release,  dated February 12, 1996, issued by ResMed, Inc.


b)          The  following  documents  are  filed  as  part  of  this  report:

1.1          Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Schedule.

     The consolidated financial statements and schedule of the Company and its
consolidated  subsidiaries  are  set  forth  in  the  "Index  to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements"  under  Item  8  of  this  report.

3.       Exhibits.  The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report:

3.1          Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*
3.2          By-laws  of  Registrant*
4.1          Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*
10.1          1995  Stock  Option  Plan*
10.2          Licensing  Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*
10.3      Amended and Restated Consulting Agreement between Colin Sullivan and
ResMed  Limited  dated  September  2,  1994*
10.4         Loan Agreement between the Australian Trade Commission and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*
10.5          Lease  for  82  Waterloo  Road,  Sydney,  Australia*
10.6          Lease  for  5744  Pacific  Center  Boulevard,  San  Diego,  USA*
11.1          Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earning  per  Share
16.1          Letter  regarding  change  in  Certifying  Accountant*
21.1          Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1          Consent and Report on Schedules of KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
27.1          Financial  Data  Schedule

*      Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.









     Exhibit  21.1
                                  RESMED INC
                        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT


ResMed  Holdings  Limited  (incorporated  under  the  laws of New South Wales,
Australia)

ResMed  Limited  (incorporated  under the laws of New South Wales, Australia)*

ResMed  Corporation  (a  Minnesota  corporation)*

ResMed  (UK)  Limited  (a  United  Kingdom  corporation)*

ResMed  International  Inc  (a  Delaware  corporation)

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  and  Co  Kg  (a  German  corporation)**

ResMed  SA  (a  French  corporation)**

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  (a  German  corporation)

*A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  Holdings  Limited
**  A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  International  Inc




     Exhibit 23.1

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT AND REPORT ON SCHEDULES

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
ResMed Inc:

The audits  referred  to in our  report  dated August 12, 1996,  included  the
related financial statement schedules as of June 30, 1996 and for each  of the
years in the three-year period ended June 30, 1996.  This financial statement
schedule is  the  responsibility  of the  Company's  management.   Our
responsibility is to  express an opinion on this financial statement schedule
based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when 
considered in relation to the basic  consolidated financial  statements  taken 
as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth 
therein.

We consent to incorporation  by reference in the  registration  statement (No.
333-08013) on Form S-8 of ResMed  Inc of  our  report  dated  August 12, 1996,
relating to the consolidated balance sheets of ResMed Inc and subsidiaries as 
of June 30, 1995 and 1996, and the related consolidated statements of income, 
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years  in the three-year 
period ended June 30, 1996, and the related schedules, which report appears in 
the June 30, 1996 annual report on Form 10-K of ResMed Inc.




/s/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
San Diego, California
September 23, 1996












