
10-K



                                UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C 20549
                              _________________

                                  FORM 10-K
                              _________________

            (X)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-26038

                                 RESMED INC.
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)

     DELAWARE                                         98-0152841
     (State  or  other  jurisdiction  of          (I.R.S.  Employer
     incorporation  or  organization)          Identification  No.)

                        5744 PACIFIC CENTER BOULEVARD
                                  SUITE 311
                             SAN DIEGO  CA  92121
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                   (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 619 622 2040
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:



Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required  to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant  was  required  to  file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
filing  requirements  for  the  past  90  days.

     Yes              X          No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulations  S-K  (S  229.405 of this Chapter) is not contained herein and
will  not  be  contained  to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy  or  information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the
Form  10-K  or  any  amendment  to  this  Form  10-K(          ).

The  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting stock held by non-affiliates of
Registrant as of September 25, 1997, computed by reference to the closing sale
price of such stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market, was approximately $161,019,427
(All  directors  and  executive  officers  of  Registrant  are  considered
affiliates.)

At September 25, 1997, Registrant had 7,226,713 shares of Common Stock, $.004
par  value,  issued  and  outstanding.

Portions  of  Registrant's  Annual Report to Stockholders for the period ended
June  30,  1997  are  incorporated  by  reference into Part I of this report. 
Portions  of Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its November 10, 1997
meeting  of  stockholders  are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
report.


 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDES FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS,
    WHICH ARE TYPICALLY IDENTIFIED BY THE WORDS "ANTICIPATES", "BELIEVES",
 "EXPECTS", "INTENDS", "FORECASTS", "PLANS", "FUTURE", "STRATEGY", OR WORDS OF
 SIMILAR IMPORT.  VARIOUS IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO
 DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE EXPRESSED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE
    IDENTIFIED BELOW IN PART I, ITEM 3 AND PART II, ITEM 7 OF THIS REPORT.


                                    PART I

Item  1.          Business

     General

     ResMed  Inc.,  ("ResMed"  or the "Company") is a leading manufacturer and
distributor  of  medical  equipment  for  the  treatment  of  sleep disordered
breathing  ("SDB")  related  respiratory  conditions.  The  Company  currently
sells its  comprehensive  range  of treatment and  diagnostic  devices  in  41
countries through a combination of wholly-owned subsidiaries  and  independent
distributors.  Since formation in 1989 the Company has expanded its operations
through  the  introduction  of  a number of innovative product lines servicing
primarily  the  obstructive  sleep apnea ("OSA") sector.  As a consequence the
Company  has been able to achieve a compound sales growth rate of 79% over the
period,  well  in excess of the market growth rate.  The Company believes that
its  success  is  attributable  to  its  continuing  focus on sleep disordered
breathing  and  the  development  of equipment for treatment of its associated
medical  conditions.

     Corporate  History

     ResMed  Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation,  was formed in March 1994 as the
ultimate  holding  company  for  its  Australian,  European  and United States
operating  subsidiaries.    On  June  1, 1995 the Company completed an initial
public offering of common stock and on June 2, 1995 the Company's common stock
commenced  trading  on  the NASDAQ  Stock  Market.  Its Australian subsidiary,
ResMed Holdings Limited ("RHL"), was originally organized in 1989 by Dr. Peter
Farrell  to  acquire  from  Baxter  Center  for  Medical  Research Pty Limited
("Baxter"),  the  rights  to  certain  technology relating to nasal Continuous
Positive  Airway Pressure ("CPAP") treatment as well as Baxter's existing CPAP
device business.  Baxter had sold CPAP devices in Australia since 1988, having
acquired  the  rights to the technology in 1987 from Dr. Colin Sullivan of the
University  of  Sydney, who invented nasal CPAP for the treatment of OSA.  The
Company  and  its  subsidiaries,  since  1989, have specialized in the design,
manufacture  and marketing of patented nasal CPAP and variable positive airway
pressure  ("VPAP")  equipment  for  the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of  sleep
disordered  breathing  primarily  OSA.

       The Company acquired the distribution business of both Dieter W Priess
Medtechnik  and  Premium  Medical SARL, its German and French distributors, on
February  7,  1996  and  June  12,  1996,  respectively.

- -2-

     Obstructive  Sleep  Apnea

     OSA  is  a  breathing  disorder  in  which  an  individual  experiences a
temporary collapse of the upper airway during sleep.  This restricts breathing
and severely disrupts the individual's sleep.  Sleep is a complex neurological
process  that  includes  two distinct states: rapid eye movement ("REM") sleep
and  non-rapid  eye  movement  ("non-REM")  sleep.   REM sleep, which is about
20-25%  of  total  sleep  in adults, is characterized by a high level of brain
activity, bursts of rapid eye movement, increased heart and respiration rates,
and  paralysis  of many muscles.  Non-REM sleep is subdivided into four stages
that  generally  parallel  sleep depth: stage 1 is the lightest and stage 4 is
the deepest.  The inability of an individual to experience adequate amounts of
REM  and  deeper  levels  (stages 3 and 4) of non-REM sleep results in daytime
tiredness  and reduced cognitive function, both of which are characteristic of
OSA.

     The  upper  airway  has  no  rigid  support  and  is  held open by active
contraction  of  upper  airway muscles.  Normally, during REM sleep and deeper
levels  of  non-REM sleep, upper airway muscles relax and the airway narrows. 
Individuals  with  narrow upper airways or poor muscle tone are prone to upper
airway  closure  during  sleep  (an  "apnea"),  resulting  in  an inability to
breathe,  or  near  closure (an "hypopnea") which causes snoring and breathing
difficulties.    These  breathing irregularities result in a lowering of blood
oxygen  concentration,  until  the  brain  reacts  to  the  lack  of oxygen or
increased  carbon  dioxide  and  signals  the body to respond.  Typically, the
individual  subconsciously  arouses  from  REM  sleep or from Stages 3 or 4 of
non-REM sleep to Stages 1 or 2 of non-REM sleep, causing the throat muscles to
contract,  thus opening the airway.  After a few gasping breaths, blood oxygen
levels  increase  and the individual can resume a deeper sleep until the cycle
repeats  itself.    The cycle of complete or partial upper airway closure with
subconscious  arousal  to  lighter  levels of sleep can be repeated as many as
several  hundred  times  during six to eight hours of sleep.  Sufferers of OSA
typically  experience  ten  or  more  such  cycles per hour.  These awakenings
greatly  impair  the quality of sleep, although the individual is not normally
aware  of  these  disruptions.

     Sleep  fragmentation and the loss of the deeper levels of sleep caused by
OSA  can  lead  to  excessive  daytime  sleepiness, reduced cognitive function
(including  memory  loss and lack of concentration) and irritability.  OSA has
been  associated  with employment difficulties, marital discord, impotence and
other  adverse  effects.    Patients with OSA have been shown to have impaired
daytime  performance  in  a  variety  of cognitive functions including problem
solving,  response  speed and visual motor coordination.  Certain studies have
linked  OSA  to increased occurrences of traffic and workplace accidents.  OSA
sufferers  also  may  experience an increase in heart rate and an elevation of
blood  pressure during the cycle of apneas.  Several reports indicate that the
oxygen  desaturation,  increased heart rate and elevated blood pressure caused
by  OSA  may be associated with increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and
mortality  due  to  angina,  stroke  and  heart  attack.

- -3-

     The  Market

     In  its  "Wake  Up  America"  report  to  Congress  in 1993, the National
Commission on Sleep Disorders Research estimated that approximately 40 million
individuals  in  the  United States suffer from chronic disorders of sleep and
wakefulness,  such as sleep apnea, insomnia and narcolepsy.  According to this
report, sleep apnea is the most common sleep disorder, affecting approximately
20  million  individuals  in  the  United States.  Nearly 6.5 million of these
persons over the age of 30 experience moderate to severe forms of sleep apnea.
 However,  there  is a general lack of awareness of OSA among both the medical
community  and the general public, which has led to a corresponding failure to
diagnose  the  disorder.    It is estimated that less than 3% of those persons
afflicted  by  OSA  know the cause of their fatigue or other symptoms.  Health
care  professionals  are often unable to diagnose OSA because they are unaware
that  such  non-specific  symptoms  as  fatigue,  snoring and irritability are
characteristic  of  OSA.

     While  OSA has been diagnosed in a broad cross-section of the population,
it  is  predominant  among  middle-aged  men  and  those who are obese, smoke,
consume alcohol in excess or use muscle-relaxing drugs.  In addition, patients
who are being treated for certain other conditions, including those undergoing
dialysis  treatment  or  suffering from diabetes, are medically predisposed to
OSA.

     Generally,  an  individual  seeking  treatment for the symptoms of OSA is
referred  by  a general practitioner to a specialist, such as a pulmonologist,
neurologist  or  psychiatrist  for  further  evaluation.  The diagnosis of OSA
typically  requires  monitoring  the  patient  during  sleep at either a sleep
clinic  or  the  patient's  home.    During  overnight  testing,  respiratory
parameters  and sleep patterns are monitored along with other vital signs such
as blood pressure, heart rate and blood oxygen levels. These tests allow sleep
clinicians  to  detect  any  sleep  disturbances  such as apneas, hypopneas or
subconscious  awakenings.

     The  Company  estimates  that  there  are currently more than 1,200 sleep
clinics  in  the  United States, a substantial portion of which are affiliated
with  hospitals.  Sleep clinics generally range in size from one to six beds. 
The  number of sleep clinics has expanded significantly from approximately 100
such  facilities  in  1985.  The Company believes that despite the increase in
sleep  clinics,  testing facilities currently remain inadequate to address the
large  population  of  undiagnosed  OSA  sufferers.

     Existing  Therapies

     Prior  to  1981,  the  primary  treatment  for  OSA  was a tracheotomy, a
surgical procedure to cut a hole in the patient's windpipe to create a channel
for  airflow.  Most  recently,  surgery  has  involved  either
uvulopalatopharyngoplasty ("UPPP"), in which surgery is performed on the upper
airway  to  remove excess tissue and to streamline the shape of the airway, or
mandibular  advancement,  in which the lower jaw is moved forward to widen the
patient's airway.  UPPP alone has a poor success rate; however, when performed
in  conjunction  with  mandibular advancement, a greater success rate has been
claimed.    This combined procedure, performed by highly specialized surgeons,
is  expensive  and  involves  prolonged  and  often  painful recovery periods.

- -4-

     Nasal  CPAP  was  first  used as a treatment for OSA in 1980 by Dr. Colin
Sullivan,  the Chairman of the Company's Medical Advisory Board.  CPAP systems
were  commercialized  for  treatment  of  OSA  in the United States in the mid
1980's.    Today,  use  of nasal CPAP, although not a medical cure for OSA, is
generally  acknowledged as the most effective and least invasive treatment for
OSA, allowing the individual to enjoy a more normal sleep pattern. The Company
estimates  that  during  fiscal  1997,  CPAP treatment was prescribed for over
100,000  new  patients  in  the  United  States.

     During nasal CPAP treatment, a patient sleeps with a nasal mask connected
to  a  small  portable  air  flow  generator  that  delivers  room  air  at  a
predetermined  positive  pressure.   The patient breathes in air from the flow
generator  and  breathes  out through an exhaust port in the mask.  Continuous
air  pressure  applied  in  this manner acts as a pneumatic splint to keep the
upper airway open and unobstructed.  Upon diagnosis of OSA and the decision to
prescribe  CPAP treatment for an OSA sufferer, the physician must determine an
appropriate  pressure  setting  for  the CPAP device.  This pressure titration
(adjustment)  procedure typically occurs in the sleep clinic while the patient
sleeps using the CPAP device, and a technician manually increases the pressure
until  sleeping  and  breathing  are  normalized.   After determination of the
proper therapeutic pressure, the patient is prescribed a nasal CPAP device set
to  that  pressure  for  home  use.

     CPAP  is  a treatment and not a cure for OSA, and therefore, must be used
on  a  nightly  basis for life.  Patient compliance has been a major factor in
the  efficacy  of  CPAP  treatment.   Early generations of CPAP units provided
limited  patient  comfort and convenience.  Patients experienced soreness from
the  repeated  use  of  nasal masks and had difficulty falling asleep with the
CPAP  device  operating  at  the  prescribed  pressure.    Recently,  product
innovations  to  improve  patient  comfort and compliance have been developed.
These  include  more  comfortable  mask  systems, delay timers which gradually
raise  air  pressure  allowing  the  patient  to  fall asleep more easily, and
bi-level  flow generators which provide different air pressures for inhalation
and  exhalation.

     Business  Strategy

     The  Company believes that the SDB market will increase in the future due
to  a  number  of  factors  including the increased awareness of OSA, improved
understanding  of  the  role of OSA in cardiac treatment and related disorders
and  an  increase  in  home  based  treatment.  The Company's strategy for the
expansion  of  its business operations consists of the following key elements.

     Continue  Product  Development and Innovation.  The Company believes that
it is a leading  innovator in nasal CPAP technology for the treatment of sleep
disordered  breathing including OSA and that its continued product development
and  innovation  will be a key factor in its success.  Since its founding, the
Company  has  introduced  product  advancements  and  improvements designed to
increase  patient  comfort  and  encourage  compliance,  such as delay timers,
heated  humidifiers,  and  pliable  Bubble  Masks(Registered  Trademark).  The
Company  is  currently developing a range of automatic CPAP devices, including
further  developments  of  its  existing range of AutoSet(Trademark) products,
that  are  designed  to  continually  adjust  CPAP  pressure  to meet changing
individual  patient's  needs  and  to  eliminate  the need for manual pressure
titration.

- -5-

     Expand Market Presence.  The Company currently markets its products in 41
countries  through a network of independent distributors, the Company's direct
sales  force  and  manufacturers'  representatives.    The  Company intends to
increase  its sales and marketing efforts in its current markets, particularly
Europe  and  the  United  States,  as  well  as to continue expansion into new
countries.

     Increase  Public  and Clinical Awareness.  The Company intends to promote
awareness of the prevalence of, and treatment alternatives for, SDB with three
main  groups:  (1) the population with predisposition to SDB; (2) primary care
physicians and other specialists, such as cardiologists and anesthesiologists;
and  (3)  special interest groups, such as sleep disorder support groups.  The
Company  is  working with other physicians to explore new medical applications
for nasal CPAP, including the treatment of post-operative surgery patients and
pediatric  patients,  such  as  premature babies and infants at risk of Sudden
Infant  Death  Syndrome.

     Products

     The  Company  designs,  manufactures and markets a range of equipment for
the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of  SDB.    These  products  consist  of  flow
generators,  which  are small, portable devices that provide a preset positive
airway  pressure,  air  delivery  systems that include nasal masks, tubing and
headsets that connect the flow generator to the patient and AutoSet diagnostic
equipment.    In  addition, the Company markets accessories to improve patient
comfort,  convenience and compliance, such as heated humidifiers.  The Company
also  distributes  laboratory  and  portable  sleep  diagnostic  products
manufactured  by  both  the  Company  and  other  parties.

     Flow  Generators

     The  Company  manufactures  and  markets a broad range of flow generators
which are sold to the end user at prices which vary from approximately $800 to
$3,000, depending primarily upon the model, features and country of sale. Flow
generators  accounted  for approximately 66%, 68% and 67% of the Company's net
revenues  in  1995,  1996  and  1997  respectively.

     CPAP.    The  Company's  CPAP  flow  generators  consist  of  the
SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) V series.  The SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) V
series  offer  a range of enhancements to the Company's initial CPAP products,
released in 1989 and 1994.  The SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) V range of flow
generators,  which  feature  a 20% reduction in physical size when compared to
prior  models,  was introduced in July 1995 and is now the Company's main flow
generator  product.    The  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  V  line  of  flow
generators  consists  of  four  individual  models with each model providing a
range  of  features  depending  upon  the  needs  of  patients.    Each  model
continuously  delivers  a  fixed  positive  pressure  flow  to  the  patients.

     VPAP(Registered  Trademark).    Since  the  introduction  of  the
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  VPAP(Registered  Trademark) flow generator in
1994,  the  Company has released a number of Variable Positive Airway Pressure
(VPAP)  flow  generators which it believes improve patient comfort by applying
different  air  pressures  for  inhalation and exhalation.  These features are
particularly beneficial for those patients with impaired breathing ability who
need high levels of air pressure for inhalation as well as less resistance for
exhalation.

- -6-

     At  June  1997 the Company had three main VPAP(Registered Trademark) flow
generators,  the  SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) VPAP(Registered Trademark)II,
SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  Comfort  and  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)
VPAP(Registered  Trademark)II  ST.   These units were released from March 1996
and  feature  improved  triggering  and  reduced  noise.

     Flow  Generators  Under  Development.    The  Company  is  developing the
patented  AutoSet(Trademark)  technology  for a range of CPAP devices for home
use  in  the  treatment  of SDB conditions.  The AutoSet system is designed to
automatically  adjust  air  pressure  as needed on a breath by breath basis in
treating  OSA  and  other  SDB  conditions.

     The  Company  markets  similar  devices both for diagnostic and treatment
purposes  in  sleep  clinics  (AutoSet(Trademark)  Clinical)  and  at  home
(AutoSet(Trademark)  Portable).    While  conventional CPAP units operate at a
fixed  CPAP  pressure, the actual pressure required for effective treatment of
OSA  can vary depending on factors such as weight change, alcohol consumption,
sedative  use, stage of sleep and body position.  The AutoSet(Trademark) range
is  designed  to  detect  the  patient's  level  of  airway  resistance and to
continually  adjust  the  air  pressure  to  the appropriate therapeutic level
throughout  the  night.    The  results in greater patient comfort and reduced
pressure  related  side  effects.



- -7-

     The  Company provides optional features including a patented delay timer,
which allows the patient to select the time over which a gradual transition to
full  therapeutic  pressure  is  achieved, allowing the patient to fall asleep
more  easily.    Another  feature,  the  SmartStart(Trademark)  function,
automatically starts airflow when the patient breathes into the mask and stops
airflow  upon  removal  of the mask.  Some models record the number of hours a
patient receives therapy, permitting physicians to monitor patient compliance.
 Most  units  come  equipped with a carrying bag for enhanced portability.  In
addition,  every  unit  has  international  electric  voltage  compatibility.

     Mask  Systems,  Accessories  and  Other  Products

     Mask  systems, accessories and other products accounted for approximately
30%  of  the  Company's  net  revenues  in  1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.

     Mask  Systems

     The  Company's  mask system includes the mask frame, a nasal cushion, and
headgear  to  secure  the  nasal  cushion  to  the  face.

     The  Company's  Bubble  Mask(Registered  Trademark)  includes  a patented
Bubble Cushion(Registered Trademark) which represents a significant advance in
patient comfort.  Introduced in 1991, the Bubble Cushion(Registered Trademark)
contains  a  silicone  membrane  which  readily  adjusts to a patient's facial
contours.    Air  pressure  seals the thin membrane around the patient's nose,
thereby  minimizing  air  leakage  and the possibility of skin irritation from
repeated  usage.    The  Company's  headgear  includes  the  ResCap(Registered
Trademark)  II  which  has  a  five-point attachment method of stabilizing the
Bubble  Cushion(Registered  Trademark)  on  the  patient's  nose.

     In  addition,  in July 1995 the Company introduced the Modular Mask frame
which  features  T Bar forehead pads to prevent sideways movement of the frame
and  provide  maximum  stability.

     Typically, patients replace masks or mask cushions every 12 to 18 months,
at  a  cost  of  approximately  $100-$200,  depending  upon the model.  Bubble
Masks(Registered  Trademark)  are available in a variety of sizes and are sold
independently  of the Company's flow generators either as replacement products
or  with  other manufacturers' flow generators.  The Company also manufactures
the  Bubble  Mask(Registered  Trademark)  on  an OEM basis for Nellcor Puritan
Bennett,  one  of  its  competitors.

     Accessories  and  Other  Products

     In  order  to  enhance  patient  comfort, convenience and compliance, the
Company  markets  a variety of other products and accessories.  These products
include  humidifiers  which  connect  directly  with  the  CPAP  and VPAP flow
generator  to  moisten  (humidify)  and, if desired, heat air delivered to the
patient.    This  prevents  the  drying  of  nasal  passages  which  can cause
discomfort  upon  repeated  use  of  the  system.   Other optional accessories
include  carry bags to carry portable flow generators and replacement filters.

     Clinical  Support

     The  Company  also manufactures products that are used primarily in sleep
clinics  and  hospitals to monitor key respiratory parameters.  These products
consist  of  CPAP  devices together with additional diagnostic tools to assist
clinicians  in the diagnosis of OSA and establishment of therapeutic pressures
necessary  to  treat  OSA  suffers.

- -8-

     The  Universal  Control Unit (UCU) was first introduced in October 1995. 
It  was  superseded  in  June  1997 by the UCU2.  The UCU2 is a diagnostic and
monitoring  device used by clinicians to measure and adjust the pressure being
delivered by either the Company's CPAP or VPAP devices to a patient undergoing
a  sleep study.  It allows the clinician to conduct this review and adjustment
from  a remote location within the sleep lab.  Using the UCU2, compliance data
from  flow  generators  with  recording  capabilities,  can  be downloaded for
review.  Clinicians can then track how the patient is coping with treatment in
the  United  States,  clinical  interface  devices  are  typically provided to
clinics  by the Company without charge in order to increase clinical awareness
and  interest  in  the  Company's  products.

     The  SULLIVAN(Registered  Trademark)  Compliance  Application
(SCAN(Trademark)), introduced in October 1995 comprises the software necessary
to download compliance data from flow generators with recording capabilities. 
In  connection  with  a  modem,  this  product  allows  compliance  data to be
downloaded  from  a  flow  generator  in  a patient's name direct to the sleep
laboratory.

     AutoSet(Trademark)  Clinical.   The Company's AutoSet(Trademark) Clinical
allows  the  clinical  real-time  observation  and  review  by  a clinician of
respiratory  parameters  during  a  sleep  study.  AutoSet(Trademark) Clinical
incorporates a PC-based monitoring device which permits real-time diagnosis of
patient  airway  resistance.   This device may also be used in the therapeutic
mode  for  automatic  breath-by-breath adjustment to maintain an open airway. 
AutoSet(Trademark)  Clinical received FDA clearance in July 1996.  The Company
is  currently  developing  an  AutoSet(Trademark)  CPAP  device  for home use.

     Product  Development

     The Company is committed to an ongoing program of product advancement and
development.  Currently, the Company's product development efforts are focused
on  automated  flow generator systems, improved mask systems and manufacturing
cost-reduction  programs.

     The new SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) Mirage(Trademark) mask system, due
for release in August 1997 is a complete mask system which is smaller, lighter
and quieter than most other masks on the market.  Two sizes fit most patients,
reducing  fitting  time  and  inventory  costs.    The  HumidAire(Trademark)
humidifier  also  due  for  release  in August 1997 is ResMed's cost effective
solution  for  heated  humidification.

     The  Company  consults  with physicians at major sleep centers throughout
the  world  to  identify  technology  trends in the treatment of SDB.  Some of
these physicians currently serve on the Company's Medical Advisory Board.  New
product  ideas  are  also  identified by the Company's marketing staff, direct
sales  force,  network  of  distributors  and  manufacturers' representatives.
Typically, new product development is then performed by the Company's internal
development staff in collaboration with Dr. Sullivan and his colleagues at the
Royal  Prince  Alfred  Hospital,  the University of Sydney, and other research
groups  around  the  world.

     In the three fiscal years ended June 30, 1995, 1996 and 1997, the Company
expended  $1,996,000,  $2,841,000 and $3,807,000 respectively, on research and
development.

     Sales  and  Marketing

     The  Company  currently  markets  its  products  in  41 countries using a
network  of  distributors,  independent manufacturers' representatives and its
direct  sales force.  The Company attempts to tailor its marketing approach to
each  national market, based on regional awareness of SDB as a health problem,
physician  referral  patterns,  consumer  preferences  and local reimbursement
policies.

- -9-

     America.    In  the United States, the Company's marketing activities are
conducted  through  a  field  sales  organization comprised of 13 direct sales
employees,  including  three  regional  sales  managers,  and  21  independent
manufacturers'  representatives'  organizations.   The Company's United States
field sales organization markets and sells the Company's products primarily to
more than 1,500 home health care dealer branch locations throughout the United
States.   The Company also promotes and markets its products directly to sleep
clinics.    Patients  who are diagnosed with OSA and prescribed CPAP treatment
are  typically  referred  by the diagnosing sleep clinic to a home health care
dealer to fill the prescription.  The home health care dealer, in consultation
with  the  referring  physician,  will  assist  the  patient  in selecting the
equipment,  fits  the  patient  with  the  appropriate  mask  and set the flow
generator  pressure  to  the  prescribed  level.   In the United States, sales
employees and manufacturers' representatives are managed by the three regional
sales  managers  and  the  Company's  Vice  President  -  US  Sales.  The Vice
President  -  US Marketing, responsible for marketing in the United States and
Canada,  is  also  based  in the Company's office in San Diego.  The Company's
Canadian sales are conducted through a Canadian distributor.  Sales in America
accounted  for  53%,  49%  and 43% of the Company's total net revenues for the
fiscal  years  ended  June  30,  1995,  1996  and  1997,  respectively.

     Europe.    The  Company  markets  its  products  in  most  major European
countries.  In countries other than the United Kingdom, Germany and France, in
each  of  which  the  Company  has  fully owned subsidiaries, the Company uses
independent  distributors  to sell its products.  These distributors have been
selected  in  each country based on their knowledge of respiratory medicine as
well as a commitment to SDB therapy.  In each country in which the Company has
a subsidiary a local senior manager is responsible for direct national sales. 
The  Group's  Executive  Vice President is responsible for coordination of all
European  distributors  and,  in conjunction with local management, the direct
sales  activity  in  Europe.    In  addition, the Company uses a consultant in
Switzerland  to  assist  in  sales and marketing efforts for selected European
countries.    Sales  in Europe accounted for 29%, 36% and 44% of the Company's
total  net  revenues  for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1995, 1996 and 1997,
respectively.

     Australia/Rest  of  World.    Prior  to  May  1994,  the  Company was the
exclusive  source  of nasal CPAP flow generator units in Australia as a result
of  ResMed  Limited's ownership of Dr. Sullivan's original nasal CPAP patent. 
This  patent,  which  covered  the CPAP method of treating, and the device for
treatment of, OSA was challenged by the Australian distributor for Respironics
and,  in  May  1994, was revoked by an Australian appeals court in reliance on
issues specific to Australian patent law.  Such revocation permits competitors
to  market  CPAP  products in Australia.  Consequently, the Company's dominant
market  share  in  Australia  has  decreased  from  1996  onwards.

     Marketing  in  the  rest  of  the world is the responsibility of the Vice
President  Corporate Marketing based in Sydney, Australia.  Sales in Australia
and  the  rest  of  the  world accounted for 18%, 15% and 13% of the Company's
total  net  revenues  for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1995, 1996 and 1997,
respectively.

     Medical  Gases of Australia accounted for approximately 10%, 7% and 6% of
net  sales  in 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively, and another customer, Priess
Medtechnik,  prior  to  the  acquisition of its business by ResMed in February
1996,  accounted  for  approximately  15%  and 8% 1995 and 1996, respectively.

- -10-

     Manufacturing

     The  Company  performs  its  manufacturing  operations at its facility in
Sydney,  Australia.   The Company's manufacturing operations consist primarily
of  assembly  and  testing  of  the  Company's  flow  generators,  masks  and
accessories.    Of  the numerous raw materials, parts and components purchased
for  assembly  of  the  Company's  diagnostic  and  therapeutic sleep disorder
products,  most  are off-the-shelf items available from multiple vendors.  One
key  components  of  each of the Company's CPAP and VPAP devices are purchased
from a single source supplier.  The Company is currently qualifying additional
sources  of  supply for these components.  The Company's quality control group
performs  tests  at  various  steps  in  the  manufacturing  cycle  to  ensure
compliance  with  the  Company's  specifications.

     The  Company  generally  manufactures to its internal sales forecasts and
fills  orders as received and as a result has no significant backlog of orders
for  its  products.    The  Company  uses  management  information  systems to
integrate  its  manufacturing  planning,  billing  and  accounting  systems.

     Service  and  Warranty

     The  Company  offers  one-to-two  year  limited  warranties  on  its flow
generator  products.    Warranties  on  mask systems are for 90 days.  In most
markets,  the  Company  relies  on  its  distributors  to repair the Company's
products  with  parts  supplied  by  the  Company.  In the United States, home
health  care  dealers  generally arrange shipment of products to the Company's
San  Diego  facility  for  repair.

     The  Company  has  received  returns  of  its products from the field for
various  reasons.    The  Company  believes  that  the level of returns it has
experienced  to  date  is  consistent  with  levels  typically  experienced by
manufacturers  of  similar  devices.   The Company provides for warranties and
returns  based  on  historical  data.

     Patents  and  Proprietary  Rights  and  Related  Litigation

     The  Company, through its subsidiary ResMed Limited, owns or has licensed
rights  to  7  issued  United States patents and 6 issued foreign patents.  In
addition,  there  are  19  pending  United  States  patent applications and 35
pending  foreign  patent  applications.  Some  of  these  patents  and  patent
applications  relate  to  significant  aspects  and  features of the Company's
products.    These  include  United States patents relating to CPAP devices, a
delay  timer  system,  the Bubble Mask(Registered Trademark), and an automated
means  of  varying  air  pressure based upon a patient's changing needs during
nightly use, such as that employed in the Company's AutoSet(Trademark) Device.
 No  patents  are  due  to  expire  in  the  next  five  years.

     The  Company  relies  on  a  combination  of  patents,  trade  secrets,
non-disclosure  agreements and proprietary know-how to protect its proprietary
technology  and  rights.    ResMed  Limited is pursuing an infringement action
against  one  of  its  competitors  (Respironics,  Inc.)  and is investigating
possible  infringement  by  others.

     In  October  1994,  in  Australia, a patent held by ResMed was revoked on
appeal  on the grounds that the patent was not entitled to claim priority to a
"provisional" application, which was filed before the inventor's publication. 
As  a result of this claim, ResMed based in part on advice from legal counsel,
at June 30, 1994 accrued approximately $300,000 for costs associated with this
patent  litigation.    Final and total settlement of which was made on May 29,
1997  for  $246,000.

- -11-

     Additional  litigation  may be necessary to enforce patents issued to the
Company, to protect the Company's proprietary rights, or to defend third-party
claims  of  infringement  by the Company of the proprietary rights of others. 
Patent  laws  regarding  the  enforceability  of  patents vary from country to
country.    Therefore,  there  can  be no assurance that patent issues will be
uniformly  resolved,  or  that  local  laws  will  provide  the  Company  with
consistent  rights  and  benefits.

     ResMed Limited is also defending alleged breaches of the Australian Trade
Practices  Act  in  a  suit  claiming  damages  of  $730,000 brought in Sydney
Australia  by  Respironics  and  their  Australian  distributor.   This action
relates  to  ResMed  Limited  exercising its rights to the Australian original
CPAP  patent,  which  was  revoked  by the Federal Court of Australia in 1994.

     Third-Party  Reimbursement

     The  cost of medical care is funded in substantial part by government and
private  insurance  programs.  Although the Company does not generally receive
payments for its products directly from these payors, the Company's success is
dependent  upon  the  ability of patients to obtain adequate reimbursement for
the Company's products.  In most markets, the Company's products are purchased
primarily  by home health care dealers, hospitals or sleep clinics, which then
invoice  third-party  payors  directly.

     In  the  United States, third-party payors include Medicare, Medicaid and
corporate health insurance plans.  These payors may deny reimbursement if they
determine  that  a  device  has not received appropriate FDA clearance, is not
used  in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, or is experimental,
unnecessary  or  inappropriate.    Third-party  payors  are  also increasingly
challenging  prices  charged  for  medical  products and services, and certain
private  insurers  have  initiated  reimbursement  systems  designed to reduce
health  care  costs.  The trend towards managed health care and the concurrent
growth  of HMOs which could control or significantly influence the purchase of
health  care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform
health  care,  may  result  in  lower  prices  for  the  Company's  products.

     In  some  foreign  markets, such as Spain, France and Germany, government
reimbursement  is  currently available for purchase or rental of the Company's
products subject, however, to constraints such as price controls or unit sales
limitations.

     In Australia and in other foreign markets, such as the United Kingdom and
Japan,  there  is currently limited or no reimbursement for devices that treat
OSA.

     Government  Regulations

     The  Company's  products are subject to extensive regulation particularly
as  to  safety,  efficacy and adherence to FDA Quality System Regulation (QSR)
and  related  manufacturing standards.  Medical device products are subject to
rigorous  FDA  and  other governmental agency regulations in the United States
and  regulations  of  relevant foreign agencies abroad.  The FDA regulates the
introduction,  manufacture,  advertising,  labeling,  packaging,  marketing,
distribution,  and  record  keeping for such products, in order to ensure that
medical  products  distributed in the United States are safe and effective for
their  intended  use.  In addition, the FDA is authorized to establish special
controls  to  provide  reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of
most devices.  Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in import
detentions,  fines,  civil  penalties,  injunctions,  suspensions or losses of
regulatory  approvals,  recall or seizure of products, operating restrictions,
refusal  of the government to approve product export applications or allow the
Company  to  enter  into  supply  contracts,  and  criminal  prosecution.

- -12-

     The  FDA requires that a manufacturer introducing a new medical device or
a new indication for use of an existing medical device obtain either a Section
510(k)  premarket notification clearance or a premarket approval ("PMA") prior
to  it  being  introduced  into  the  market. The Company's products currently
marketed  in  the  United  States  are  marketed  in  reliance  on  a  510(k)
pre-marketing  clearance.  The process of obtaining a Section 510(k) clearance
generally requires the submission of performance data and often clinical data,
which  in  some  cases  can  be  extensive,  to demonstrate that the device is
"substantially equivalent" to a device that was on the market prior to 1976 or
to a device that has been found by the FDA to be "substantially equivalent" to
such  a  pre-1976  device.  As a result, FDA clearance requirements may extend
the  development  process  for a considerable length of time.  In addition, in
some  cases, the FDA may require additional review by an advisory panel, which
can  further lengthen the process.  The PMA process, which is reserved for new
devices  that are not substantially equivalent to any predicate device and for
high risk devices or those that are used to support or sustain human life, may
take  several  years  and requires the submission of extensive performance and
clinical  information.

     As a medical device manufacturer, the Company is subject to inspection on
a routine basis by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's QSR regulations which
impose  procedural  and  documentation  requirements  with  respect to design,
manufacturing  and  quality control activities.  The Company believes that its
design, manufacturing and quality control procedures meet the requirements for
the  regulations.

     Sales  of  medical  devices  outside  the  United  States  are subject to
regulatory  requirements  that  vary widely from country to country.  Approval
for  sale  of  the  Company's medical devices in Europe is through the CE mark
process.    The  Company's  products  where  appropriate, are CE marked to the
European  Unions  Medical  Device  Directive.

     Competition

     The  markets  for  the  Company's  products  are highly competitive.  The
Company  believes that the principal competitive factors in all of its markets
are  product  features,  reliability  and  price.    Reputation  and efficient
distribution  are also important factors.  Patent protection could also become
an  important  issue  in  the  future.

     The  Company competes on a market-by-market basis with various companies,
some of which have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company.
 In  the  United  States,  its  principal  market,  Respironics,  Healthdyne
Technologies,  DeVilbiss  and  Nellcor  Puritan  Bennett  are  the  primary
competitors for the Company's CPAP products.  The Company's principal European
competitors  are  also  Respironics,  Healthdyne  Technologies,  DeVilbiss and
Nellcor  Puritan  Bennett,  as  well  as  regional  European  manufacturers.

     Any product developed by the Company that gains regulatory clearance will
have  to  compete for market acceptance and market share.  An important factor
in  such  competition  may be the timing of market introduction of competitive
products.   Accordingly, the relative speed with which the Company can develop
products,  complete  clinical  testing  and regulatory clearance processes and
supply  commercial  quantities of the product to the market are expected to be
important  competitive  factors.

     Employees

     As  of  June  30,  1997,  the  Company had 270 employees and 14 full time
consultants,  of  which  129  persons  are  employed  in  warehousing  and
manufacturing,  42  in research and development, 69 in sales and marketing and
44  in  administration.    Of the Company's employees and consultants, 199 are
located  in  Australia, 41 in the United States and 44 in Europe.  The Company
believes that the success of its business will depend, in part, on its ability
to attract and retain qualified personnel.  None of the Company's employees is
covered  by  a collective bargaining agreement.  The Company believes that its
relationship  with  its  employees  is  good.

- -13-

     Medical  Advisory  Board

The  Company has a Medical Advisory Board ("MAB") consisting of physicians and
scientists  specializing in the field of sleep disorders.  MAB members meet as
a  group  twice  a  year  with  members of the Company's senior management and
members  of  its  research  and marketing departments to advise the Company on
technology  trends  in  sleep  disordered  breathing and other developments in
sleep  disorders  medicine.    MAB members are also available to consult on an
as-needed basis with the senior management of the Company.  MAB members are as
follows:

Colin Sullivan, M.D., Ph.D., F.R.A.C.P., age 53, is the inventor of nasal CPAP
 for    treating  obstructive  sleep  apnea and is a thoracic physician at the
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital.  He is Professor of Medicine and Director of the
David Read Laboratory at the Sydney University Medical School.  He is a Fellow
of    the Royal Australian  College of Physicians and Director of the National
SIDS   Council Pediatric  Sleep  Laboratory at the Royal Alexandria Children's
Hospital,  Westmead.    Dr.  Sullivan  is the Chairman of the Medical Advisory
Board,  and  has  continued to contribute to the Company's innovation, product
development  and  clinical  testing.  He has authored over 100 papers in sleep
disorders    and  related  respiratory  areas and is on the editorial board of
several professional journals.  Dr. Sullivan's M.D. and Ph.D. degrees are from
the  University  of  Sydney  Medical  School.

William  C.  Dement,  M.D.,  Ph.D.,  age 70, is the Lowell W. and Josephine Q.
Berry  Professor  of  Psychiatry  and  Behavioral  Sciences  at  the  Stanford
University  School  of  Medicine  and Director of the Stanford Sleep Disorders
Clinic and Research Center.  He was Chairman of the USA National Commission on
Sleep  Disorders Research.  During the 1950's, Dr. Dement was part of the team
at  the    University  of  Chicago    that  discovered  REM sleep.  In 1970 he
established  the  first  sleep    disorders  clinic  in    which he introduced
polysomnography.    Dr.  Dement   has co-authored more than 400 papers and has
written  definitive    textbooks  on  sleep.   He is on the editorial board of
several  professional journals.  Dr. Dement is a graduate of the University of
Washington,  Seattle,  and  received  his  M.D.  and  Ph.D.  degrees  from the
University  of  Chicago.

Neil J. Douglas, M.D., F.R.C.P., age 49, is Reader in Medicine and Respiratory
Medicine,  University  of Edinburgh, an Honorary Consultant Physician, Lothian
Health  Board  and  Director,  Scottish   National  Sleep Laboratory.  He is a
member  of the Action on Smoking and Health Scotland Council and  the National
Panel  of  Specialists  for  Respiratory  Medicine.    He chairs the Ethics of
Medical  Research  Volunteer Studies Sub-Committee of Lothian Health Board and
is  a  member  of  the  Working  Party  on Sleep Apnea of the Royal College of
Physicians  of  London.    He  is the author of over 100 papers in the area of
sleep  and  pulmonary medicine.  Dr. Douglas has a M.D. from the University of
Edinburgh.

Ralph  Pascualy,  M.D., A.C.P., age 47, is Medical Director, Pacific Northwest
Sleep/Wake  Disorders  Center,  Providence  Medical  Center, Seattle.  He held
research  fellowships  in  psychiatry  prior  to a professional focus on sleep
disorders  medicine  in the early 1980s.  He was awarded the William C. Dement
Award  in  Sleep  Disorders Medicine in 1983 and became an Accredited Clinical
Polysomnographer in 1986.  Dr. Pascualy trained in sleep disorders medicine at
Stanford.    He  is Editor-in-Chief of the Research Newsletter of the Clinical
Sleep  Society, Chairs the National Insurance Committee and is a member of the
Technology  Committee  of  the  Association of Sleep Disorders Centers.  He is
also  a  member  of  the  Gerontological  Society,  the  American  Psychiatric
Association, and National Affairs Committee of the Association of Professional
Sleep  Societies.  He is a graduate of Columbia University and received a M.D.
from  the  State  University  of  New  York.

- -14-

Helmut  Teschler  MD  age  44  is  Associate  Professor and  Head of the Sleep
Laboratory,  Ruhrlandklinik,  Department  of  Pneumology, University of Essen,
Germany.  He  is  a  Fellow  of  each  of  the  following Associations: German
Pneumology  Society,  American  Thoracic Society, European Respiratory Society
and  American Sleep Disorders Association. He is an internationally recognized
researcher  in  sleep  disorders  medicine.  Dr  Teschler  is  a  graduate  of
Engineering  from  the  University of Siegen, Germany and obtained his MD from
the  University  of  Marburg,  Germany.

J.  Woodrow  Weiss  MD  age  48  is Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard
Medical  School,  as  well  as Physician Director, Pulmonary-Medical Intensive
Care  Unit  and  Co-Director  of  the  Sleep  Disorders  Center at Beth Israel
Hospital,  Boston.  His  main  research  interests  are  in the cardiovascular
consequences  of  sleep  and  sleep  apnea,  upper  airway  muscle control and
dyspnea.  Dr Weiss was in intern and resident at the University of California,
San Francisco and completed research fellowships at both Dartmouth and Harvard
Medical  Schools;  he  is  an  internationally- recognized researcher in sleep
disorders  medicine.  He  holds  a BA from Harvard and an MD from Case Western
Reserve  School  of  Medicine.

B.  Tucker  Woodson  MD FACS age 40 is an Otolaryngologist and is an Associate
Professor  of  Surgery  at the Medical College of Wisconsin. He is a Fellow of
the  American  Academy  of  Otolaryngology  -  Head  and  Neck Surgery and did
surgical training with Dr. Fujite, the pioneer of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty to
treat  obstructive  sleep  apnea.  He  has  a primary research interest in the
surgical  management of sleep apnea but is also a proponent of nasal CPAP. Dr.
Woodson  did  his  surgical training in otolaryngology at Detroit's Henry Ford
Hospital  and  holds a BA from Washington University, St. Louis and an MD from
the  University  of  Missouri,  Columbia.

Clifford  W.  Zwillich,  M.D.,  age  57,  is  Chief, Division of Pulmonary and
Critical   Care  Medicine,  Pennsylvania  State  University, and Distinguished
Professor of Medicine.  His major scientific interest is the body's control of
respiration.    He serves on the Editorial Boards of more than 10 journals and
is    active  in numerous  associations specializing in pulmonary medicine and
sleep   disorders.  Dr. Zwillich holds a B.A. degree from Hunter College and a
M.D.  from the University of Kansas.  He completed his senior residency at the
Harvard    Medical    School in the early 1970s  and then undertook a research
fellowship  at  the  University  of  Colorado  Health  Services  Center.

Members  of  the  Medical  Advisory  Board,  other  than Dr. Sullivan, receive
approximately  $1,000  per  month  and  all  members  receive reimbursement of
traveling  costs  and  other out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending such
industry  conferences  as  may  be  requested  by  the  Company.

Item  2          Properties

     The  Company's  principal  offices are located in Sydney, Australia, at a
leased  facility of approximately 46,000 square feet.  This facility is leased
through  mid 1999  and  contains approximately  28,000 square feet of assembly
space,  and  approximately  18,000  square  feet  devoted  to  research  and
administration offices.  The  Company believes  that this facility is adequate
to meet  its requirements through late 1998 the anticipated completion date of
ResMed's  new Australian  operations center.  Sales and warehousing facilities
are also leased in San Diego, California, Abingdon, England, Moenchengladbach,
Germany  and  Lyon,  France.

- -15-

Item  3.          Legal  Proceedings

     The  following discussion contains forward-looking statements relating to
the  Company's  legal  proceedings.    Litigation is inherently uncertain and,
accordingly,  actual  results  could differ materially from those expressed in
the  forward-looking  statements.

     The  Company  is  currently  engaged  in  significant  patent  litigation
relating to the enforcement and defense of certain of its patents. In 1992 the
Company's  original  Australian  patent,  which  was due to expire in 1998 and
covered  the CPAP method of treating, and the device for treatment of OSA, was
challenged  by  the  Australian  distributor  for Respironics, Inc. and in May
1994,  was  revoked  by  an  Australian  appeals  court  in reliance on issues
specific  to  Australian  patent  law. The Company's market share in Australia
decreased from 1995 and the Company expects that its market share in Australia
will continue to decrease.  The Company on May 29, 1997 paid $246,000 as total
and  final  settlement  of  costs  associated  with  the  litigation.

     In January 1995, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in
the  United  States against Respironics.  The complaint seeks monetary damages
from,  and  injunctive  relief  against Respironics resulting from its alleged
infringement of three of the Company's patents.  In February 1995, Respironics
filed  a  complaint  against  the  Company seeking a declaratory judgment that
Respironics  does  not infringe claims of these patents and that the Company's
patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The two actions have been combined and
will  proceed  in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.

In  June  1996  the Company initiated a further action in Pennsylvania against
Respironics regarding alleged infringement of a fourth patent, granted June 4,
1996,  related to the delay timer feature.  This action was again consolidated
with  the  ongoing  case  such  that  the two remaining actions are to proceed
together.   On July 1, 1997 the Court granted Respironics a motion for partial
summary  judgment  in  which  Respironics  alleged its accused products do not
infringe  one  of the four patents in suit.  ResMed believes there are grounds
to  appeal this dismissal and it is ResMed's intention to seek reversal of the
ruling  by  appeal  to  the  United  States  Court  of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit.

     On  May  17,  1995,  Respironics  and  its Australian distributor filed a
Statement  of  Claim  against the Company and Dr. Peter Farrell in the Federal
Court  of  Australia.  The Statement of Claim alleges that the Company engaged
in  unfair  trade practices, including the misuse of the power afforded by its
Australian  patent and dominant market position in violation of the Australian
Trade  Practices  Act.    The  Statement of Claim asserts damage claims in the
aggregate amount of approximately $730,000, constituting lost profit on sales.
 While  the  Company  intends to defend this action, there can be no assurance
that  the  Company  will  be  successful  in defending such action or that the
Company  will  not be required to make significant payments to the claimants. 
Furthermore,  the  Company  expects  to incur ongoing legal costs in defending
such  action.

Item  4          Submission  of  Matter  to  a  Vote  of  Security  Holders

     None

- -16-

                                   PART II



     As of  September  25, 1997, there were  approximately 2,046  beneficial
holders of  the Company's  Common Stock.  The Company does not intend to
declare any  cash  dividends  in  the  foreseeable  future.

Item  6          Selected  Financial  Data



- -17-




Item  7       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results  of  Operations

     Management's  discussion  and analysis of financial condition and results
of  operations  should be read in conjunction with the selected financial data
and  consolidated  financial  statements  and notes thereto included elsewhere
herein.

     The Company designs, manufactures and markets equipment for the diagnosis
and  treatment  of sleep disordered breathing conditions including obstructive
sleep  apnea.    The Company's net revenues are generated from the sale of its
various  flow  generators  devices,  nasal mask systems, accessories and other
products,  and, to a lesser extent from royalties.  The Company receives other
income  through  interest  and  certain  Australian  government  grants.

     The  Company  has  invested  significant  resources  in  research  and
development  and  product  enhancement.  Since 1989, the Company has developed
several  innovations  to  the original CPAP device to increase patient comfort
and  to  improve ease of product use. The Company has recently been developing
products  for  automated  treatment  and  monitoring  of  OSA,  such  as
AutoSet(Trademark).    The  Company's  research  and  development expenses are
subsidized  in  part  by grants and tax incentives from the Australian federal
government.   The Company has also received grants from the Australian federal
government  to  support marketing efforts to increase Australian export sales,
and  for  incorporation  of  computer  components  into  its  products.

     The  Company's  income tax rate is governed by the laws of the regions in
which  the  Company's income is recognized.  To date, a substantial portion of
the  Company's  income  has  been subject to income tax in Australia where the
statutory  rate  which  prior  to  June  30,  1995  was  33%, increased to 36%
effective  July  1,  1995.    During fiscal 1995, 1996 and 1997, the Company's
effective tax rate has fluctuated from approximately 25% to approximately 33%.
 These  fluctuations  have  resulted from, and future effective tax rates will
depend  upon,  numerous  factors,  including  the  amount  of  research  and
development  expenditures  for  which  a  125%  Australian  tax  deduction  is
available,  the level of non-deductible expenses, and the use of available net
operating  loss  carryforward  deductions  and  other  tax credits or benefits
available  to  the  Company  under  applicable  tax  laws.

     Following  is  a  comparative discussion by fiscal year of the results of
operations  for  the  three  years  ended  June  30,  1997.

     Fiscal  Year  Ended June 30, 1997 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended  June 30,

     Net  Revenues.    Net  revenues increased in fiscal 1997 to $49.2 million
from  $34.6  million  in  fiscal 1996, an increase of $14.6 million or 42.3%. 
This  increase  was primarily attributable to an increase in unit sales of the
Company's  flow  generators  and  accessories  in  Europe  where  net revenues
increased  to  $21.5  million  from  $12.4 million and, to a lesser extent, in
North  America,  where  net  revenues  increased  to  $21.3 million from $16.8
million.   In addition, net revenues improved due to a continuing market shift
to  higher-priced  bi-level  based  products  such as Sullivan VPAP(Registered
Trademark)II  ST.   This favorable effect was partially offset by decreases in
the  selling  prices  of  the  Company's  CPAP  products in the United States.

- -18-

     Gross  Profit.    Gross  profit increased in fiscal 1997 to $28.9 million
from  $17.6  million  in  1996,  an  increase  of $11.3 million or 64.4%.  The
increase  resulted  primarily  from  increased unit sales during fiscal 1997. 
Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased in fiscal 1997 to 58.7%
from  50.8%  in  1996.    The  increase  was  primarily  due  to  a  full year
profitability  from  the  Company's German and French subsidiaries acquired in
February  and June 1996, respectively, improved manufacturing efficiencies and
increased  sales  of  higher  margin  diagnostic  and  bi-level  units.  These
improvements were, however,  partially offset  by continuing price competition
in the United  States,  where prices for the Company's products are lower than
elsewhere  in  the  world.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative  Expenses.    Selling, general and
administrative  expenses increased in 1997 to $16.8 million from $11.1 million
for  1996,  an  increase  of  $5.7  million  or 50.5%.  As a percentage of net
revenues,  selling,  general  and  administrative expenses increased in fiscal
1997  to  34.1%  from 32.2% for fiscal 1996.  The increase in expenses was due
primarily  to  an  increase  to  113  from  87  in  the  number  of  sales and
administrative  personnel  and to a limited extent additional selling expenses
arising  from  the acquisition of the Company's German distributor in February
1996,  and  other expenses related to the increase in the Company's sales.  In
addition  the  Company  incurred  substantial  legal  fees with respect to its
ongoing patent action of $773,000 and $924,000 in 1996 and 1997, respectively.

     Research  and  Development  Expenses.   Research and development expenses
increased  in fiscal 1997 to $3.8 million from $2.8 million in fiscal 1996, an
increase  of  approximately  $1  million  or  34.0%.    As a percentage of net
revenues,  research  and development expenses in fiscal 1997 decreased to 7.7%
from  8.2%  in  fiscal  1996.  The dollar increase in research and development
expenses  was  due  primarily  to  an  increase  in  research  and development
equipment  and  external  consultancy  fees.

     Other Income.  Other income decreased in fiscal 1997 to $2.8 million from
$3  million  for  fiscal 1996, a decrease of $200,000 or 6.9%.  This decrease
was  due  primarily  to  the  write  down  of  certain investments held by the
Company.    These  write downs were partially offset by foreign currency gains
which  increased from $961,000 to $1.6 million in 1996 and 1997, respectively,
as  a  result  of  both  marking  foreign  currency options to market and cash
deliveries  over  the  year.

     Income  Taxes.    The Company's effective income tax rate for fiscal 1997
increased  to  approximately  32.7% from approximately 31.4% for fiscal 1996. 
This  increase  was  primarily  due  to  the  high  relative taxes incurred in
Germany.   These higher tax rates were partially offset by additional research
and  development  expenses  in Australia for which the Company received a 125%
deduction  for  tax  purposes.

     Fiscal  Year  Ended June 30, 1996 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended  June 30,

     Net  Revenues.    Net  revenues increased in fiscal 1996 to $34.6 million
from  $23.5  million  in  fiscal 1995, an increase of $11.1 million or 47.1%. 
This  increase  was primarily attributable to an increase in unit sales of the
Company's  flow  generators  and  accessories  in  Europe  where  net revenues
increased to $12.4 million from $6.8 million and, to a lesser extent, in North
America, where net revenues increased to $16.8 million from $12.5 million.  In
addition,  net revenues were affected favorably by a product mix shift to new,
higher-priced  products such as SULLIVAN(Registered Trademark) VPAP(Registered
Trademark)II.  This favorable effect was partially offset by a decrease in the
selling  prices  of  the  Company's  CPAP products in most geographic markets.

- -19-

     Gross  Profit.    Gross  profit increased in fiscal 1996 to $17.6 million
from  $12.2  million  in  1995,  an  increase  of  $5.4 million or 43.7%.  The
increase  resulted  primarily  from  increased unit sales during fiscal 1996. 
Gross  profit as a percentage of net revenues declined in fiscal 1996 to 50.8%
from  52.0%  in  1995.    The decrease was primarily due to an increase in the
value  of  the Australian Dollar relative to the US Dollar over the period and
continuing  price  competition  in  the  United  States,  where prices for the
Company's products are lower than elsewhere in the world.  The increased value
of  the  Australian  Dollar  increases  the  relative cost of manufacturing in
Australia  where  the  Company's  manufacturing  facilities  are  located.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative  Expenses.    Selling, general and
administrative  expenses  increased in 1996 to $11.1 million from $7.4 million
for  1995,  an  increase  of  $3.7  million  or 49.5%.  As a percentage of net
revenues,  selling,  general  and  administrative expenses increased in fiscal
1996  to  32.2%  from 31.7% for fiscal 1995.  The increase in expenses was due
primarily  to  the acquisition of the Company's German distributor in February
1996,  an  increase  to  87  from 58 in the number of sales and administrative
personnel, and other expenses related to the increase in the Company's sales. 
In  addition  the  Company incurred substantial legal fees with respect to its
ongoing  patent  action  of  $278,000  and  $773,000,  in  1995  and  1996,
respectively.

     Research  and  Development  Expenses.   Research and development expenses
increased  in fiscal 1996 to $2.8 million from $2.0 million in fiscal 1995, an
increase of approximately $800,000 or 42.3%.  As a percentage of net revenues,
research  and  development expenses in fiscal 1996 decreased to 8.2% from 8.5%
in  fiscal 1995.  The dollar increase in research and development expenses was
due  primarily  to  an  increase  in  research  and  development equipment and
external  consultancy  fees.

     Other Income.  Other income increased in fiscal 1996 to $3.0 million from
$994,000  for  fiscal  1995,  an  increase  of  $2.0  million or 198.4%.  This
increase  was  due primarily to the recognition of unrealized gains on foreign
currency  options  of  $961,000,  as a result of marking the options to market
which  arose from revaluation of the Australian Dollar over the year, and $1.1
million  of  interest  income  derived from funds generated from the Company's
June  2,  1995  initial  public  offering  of  common  stock.

     Income  Taxes.    The Company's effective income tax rate for fiscal 1996
increased  to  approximately  31.4% from approximately 25.1% for fiscal 1995. 
This  increase  was  primarily due to the an increase in the Australian income
tax rate from 33% to 36% from July 1, 1995 and high relative taxes incurred in
Germany.   These higher tax rates were partially offset by additional research
and  development  expenses  in Australia for which the Company received a 150%
deduction  for  tax  purposes.

     Recent  Accounting  Developments

     In  February  1997,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  issued
Statement  of  Financial  Accounting Standards No. ("SFAS") 128, "Earnings Per
Share",  effective for both interim and fiscal years ending after December 15,
1997.    SFAS  128  simplifies existing standards for computing and presenting
earnings  per  share  for  common and potential common stock.  The adoption of
SFAS  128  is  not expected to have a material effect on the Company's present
method  of  calculating  and  reporting  earnings  per  share.

     In  June  1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 130,
"Reporting  Comprehensive Income" and SFAS 131, "Disclosures about Segments of
an  Enterprise  and  Related  Information", both effective for years beginning
after  December  15,  1997.    SFAS  130  will  require  companies  to  report
comprehensive  income  and  SFAS  131 will require companies to report segment
performance  as it is used internally.  These statements merely add additional
disclosure  requirements.

- -20-

     Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources

     As  of  June  30,  1996  and June 30, 1997, the Company had cash and cash
equivalents  and  marketable  securities  available  for sale of approximately
$23.5  million  and $28.0 million, respectively. The Company's working capital
approximated  $30.8  million and $34.4 million, respectively, at June 30, 1996
and  1997.  The  increase  in  working  capital  balances  primarily  reflects
increases  in trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents partially offset
by  increases  in  accrued  expenses  and  income  taxes  payable.

     The  Company has financed its operations and capital expenditures through
cash  generated from operations and to a lesser extent through sales of common
stock.  During  the  fiscal  years ended June 30, 1996 and 1997, the Company's
operations  generated  cash  of  approximately $3.5 million  and $9.5 million,
respectively,  primarily  as  a result of continued increases in net revenues,
offset in part by increases in accounts receivable, inventory and prepayments.
 Similarly,  cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities available for
sale  increased  to  $28.0 million at June 30, 1997 from $23.5 million at June
30,  1996,  an  increase  of  $4.5  million.    During  fiscal  1996  and 1997
approximately  $468,000 and $249,000 of cash was received from sales of common
stock  on  exercise  of  outstanding  options.

     The  Company's investing activities (excluding the purchases and sales of
marketable  securities)  for  the  fiscal  years  ended June 30, 1996 and 1997
aggregated  $8.7  million  and $4.5 million, respectively. The majority of the
1997 activities were for the purchase of production tooling and equipment and,
to  a  lesser  extent,  for  the  purchase  of office furniture, computers and
research  and  development equipment.  The majority of 1996 activities related
to the purchase of the businesses of Priess Medizintechnik and Premium Medical
for  $6.8  million.    As  a  result the Company's June 30, 1997 balance sheet
reflects an increase in net property plant and equipment to approximately $4.9
million  at  June 30, 1997, from $3.3 million at June 30, 1996, an increase of
approximately  $1.6  million.

     The  results  of  the  Company's international operations are affected by
changes  in  exchange rates between currencies.  Changes in exchange rates may
negatively  affect  the  Company's  consolidated  net  sales  and gross profit
margins  from  international  operations.   The Company is exposed to the risk
that  the  dollar-value equivalent of anticipated cash flows will be adversely
affected  by  changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  The Company manages
this  risk  by  entering  into  foreign  currency  option  contracts.

In  August 1997  the Company  entered into  an agreement  to acquire a 173,000
square ft site for  construction of  a new  Australian  operation center.  This
development  will commence  in late  1997 and  will be financed through either
company cash reserves or by a sale and leaseback transaction.

     In May 1993, the Australian Federal Government agreed to lend the Company
up to $870,000 over a six year term. Such loan bears no interest for the first
three  years  and  will  bear  interest  at  a  rate  of 3.8% thereafter until
maturity.    The  outstanding  principal balance of such loan was $867,000 and
$548,000  at  June  30,  1996  and  1997,  respectively.

     The  Company  expects  to  satisfy  all  of  its  short-term  liquidity
requirements  through  a  combination  of cash on hand and cash generated from
operations.

- -21-

     Forward-Looking  Statements

     From  time  to  time,  the Company may publish forward-looking statements
relating  to  such  matters  as  anticipated  financial  performance, business
prospects,  technological developments, new products, research and development
activities,  patent  and  other  litigation  and similar matters.  There are a
variety  of  factors  that  could  cause  the  Company's  actual  results  and
experience  to  differ  materially  from  the  anticipated  results  or  other
expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements.  The risks
and  uncertainties that may affect the Company's business, financial condition
or  results  of  operations  include  the  following:

The  market  for  products  designed  to treat sleep disordered breathing
related  respiratory  conditions  is  characterized  by  frequent  product
improvements  and  evolving  technology.  The development of new or innovative
products  by  others  or  the  discovery  of  alternative  treatments for such
conditions  could  result  in  the  Company's  products  becoming  obsolete or
noncompetitive,  which  would  have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business,  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

     The  market  for  the Company's products is also highly competitive.  The
failure of the Company to meet the prices offered by its competitors, or offer
products which either contain features similar to or more desirable than those
products  offered  by  its  competitors  or which are perceived as reliable by
consumers  could  have  a  material  adverse effect on the business, financial
condition  and  results  of  operations of the Company.  Most of the Company's
competitors  have  greater  financial,  research,  manufacturing and marketing
resources  than  the  Company.  In addition, some of the Company's competitors
sell  additional lines of products, and therefore can bundle products to offer
higher  discounts,  or  offer  rebates  or  other incentive programs to gain a
competitive  advantage.   The Company's competitors may also employ litigation
to  gain  a  competitive  advantage.    The  Company's  inability  to  compete
effectively  against  existing  or  future  competitors  would have a material
adverse  effect  on the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations.

     The  Company's operating results have, from time to time, fluctuated on a
quarterly  basis  and  may  be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. 
These  fluctuations may result from the absence of a backlog of orders for the
Company's  products,  the  introduction  of new products by the Company or its
competitors, the geographic mix of product sales, the success of the Company's
marketing efforts in new regions, changes in third-party reimbursement, timing
of  regulatory  action, timing of order by distributors, expenditures incurred
for  research  and  development,  competitive  pricing  in  different regions,
seasonality, the cost and effect of promotional and marketing programs and the
effect  of foreign currency transaction gains or losses, among other factors, 
In  addition,  the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected
by  changes in tax laws in the various countries in which the Company conducts
its  operations.

     The  Company's  success  is  dependent  upon the ability of the Company's
customers  to  obtain  adequate  reimbursement  from  third-party  payors  for
purchasing  the Company's products.  Third-party payors may deny reimbursement
if  they  determine  that  the  prescribed device has not received appropriate
United  States  Food  and  Drug  Administration  ("FDA") or other governmental
regulatory clearances, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment
methods  as  determined  by  the  payor,  or  is  experimental, unnecessary or
inappropriate.    Third-party  payors  are increasingly challenging the prices
charged for medical products and services.  The cost containment measures that
health  care  providers  are  instituting  could  have  an  adverse

- -22-

effect on the Company's ability to sell its products  and may have  a material
adverse  effect on  the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations.  In some  markets,  such as Spain, France and Germany,  government
reimbursement  is currently  available for purchase of rental of the Company's
products, subject  to  constraints  such  as  price  controls  or unit  sales
limitations.  In  other  markets, such  as Australia, the  United Kingdom  and
Japan, there  is currently limited  or no reimbursement for devices that treat
sleep disordered breathing related  respiratory  conditions.

A  substantial  portion  of  the  Company's net revenue is generated from
sales  outside  North  America.    The  Company  expects  that such sales will
continue to account for a significant portion of the Company's net revenues in
the  future.    The  Company's  sales  outside of North America are subject to
certain  inherent  risks  of  global  operations,  including  fluctuations  in
currency exchange rate, tariffs, import licenses, trade policies, domestic and
foreign  tax  policies  and foreign medical device manufacturing regulations. 
The  Company  has  had foreign currency transaction gains and losses in recent
periods.   A significant fall in the value of the United States dollar against
certain  international  currencies could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's  business,  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

     Other  factors  which could potentially have a material adverse effect on
the  Company's business, results of operations or financial conditions include
the costs and other effects of legal and administrative cases and proceedings,
settlements  and  investigations,  claims  and  changes  in  those  items, and
developments  or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual
property  rights  and  intellectual  property  licenses.

     The  information  contained  in  this  section  is  not intended to be an
exhaustive  description  of  the  risks  and  uncertainties  inherent  in  the
Company's  business  or  in its strategic plans.  Please see Item 1 "Business"
and  Item  3  "Legal  Proceedings".

Item  8          Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and Supplementary Data



b)          Supplementary  Data

     Quarterly  Financial  Information  (unaudited)



- -23-




Item  9        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountant on Accounting and
Financial  Disclosure

     None
                                   PART III

Item  10          Directors  and  Executive  Officers  of  the  Registrant

     Incorporated  by reference to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  10,  1997 meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June 30, 1997.

Item  11          Executive  Compensation

     Incorporated  by reference to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  10,  1997 meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June 30, 1997.

Item  12      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     Incorporated  by reference to Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its  November  10,  1997 meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  from  June 30, 1997.

Item  13          Certain  Relationships  and  Related  Transactions

     Dr.  Colin  Sullivan,  a  member of the Company's Medical Advisory Board,
provides consulting services to the Company pursuant to a Consulting agreement
that  terminates on December 31, 1997 ( subject to extension for an additional
five-year  term ) for which he receives annual payments based on the net sales
(  as  defined  in  the  Consulting  Agreement  )  of certain of the Company's
products  subject  to  a  $90,000 per annum minimum payment.  The company also
reimburses  Dr.  Sullivan  for  his  out-of-pocket expenses in performing such
consulting  services.  The  Company has also agreed to pay such amounts to Dr.
Sullivan for a period of 24 months following the termination of his consulting
relationship  with the Company.  Total payments to Dr. Sullivan were $228,000,
$314,000 and $353,000 for the Company's fiscal years ended June 30, 1995, 1996
and  1997,  respectively.

- -24-


                                   PART IV

Item  14          Exhibits,  Consolidated Financial Statements, Schedule, and
Reports  on  Form  8-K

a)          The  following  documents  are  filed  as  part  of  this  report:

1.1          Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Schedule.

     The consolidated financial statements and schedule of the Company and its
consolidated  subsidiaries  are  set  forth  in  the  "Index  to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements"  under  Item  8  of  this  report.

3.       Exhibits.  The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report:

3.1          Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*
3.2          By-laws  of  Registrant*
4.1          Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*
4.2          Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997**
10.1          1995  Stock  Option  Plan*
10.2          Licensing  Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*
10.3      Amended and Restated Consulting Agreement between Colin Sullivan and
ResMed  Limited  dated  September  2,  1994*
10.4         Loan Agreement between the Australian Trade Commission and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*
10.5          Lease  for  82  Waterloo  Road,  Sydney,  Australia*
10.6          Lease  for  5744  Pacific  Center  Boulevard,  San  Diego,  USA*
11.1          Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earning  per  Share
16.1          Letter  regarding  change  in  Certifying  Accountant*
21.1          Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1          Consent  and  Report  on  Schedule  of  KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
27.1          Financial  Data  Schedule

*      Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.
**         Incorporated by reference from the registrants.  Report on Form 8-K
(File  No.  0-26038).

b)          Report  on  Form  8-K

     Report  filed on April 15, 1997 with respect to the adoptions of a Rights
Agreement  granting  shareholders  right  to  purchase  Series  A  Junior
Participating  preference  stock.


- -25-



                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc.:

We  have  audited  the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ResMed Inc.
and  subsidiaries  as  of June 30, 1996 and 1997, and the related consolidated
statements  of  income,  stockholders'  equity, and cash flows for each of the
years  in  the  three  year  period  ended  June 30, 1997.  These consolidated
financial  statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these consolidated financial
statements  based  on  our  audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted auditing
standards.    Those  standards  require  that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also  includes  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for  our  opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present  fairly,  in  all  material respects, the financial position of ResMed
Inc.  and  subsidiaries as of June 30, 1996 and 1997, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period
ended  June  30,  1997,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles.




/s/  KPMG  PEAT  MARWICK  LLP
KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
San  Diego,  California
August  11,  1997

- -F1-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



- -F2-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



- -F3-


                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES





- -F4-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES




- -F5-



                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

1.          ORGANIZATION  AND  BASIS  OF  PRESENTATION

      ResMed Inc. is a Delaware corporation formed in March 1994 as a holding
company for ResMed Holdings Ltd. ("RHL") (formerly ResCare Holding Limited), a
company  incorporated  in Australia.  ResMed designs, manufactures and markets
devices  for  the  evaluation  and  treatment  of  sleep disordered breathing,
primarily obstructive sleep apnea.  ResMed Inc.'s ("ResMed", or "the Company")
principal  manufacturing operations are located in Australia.  Other principal
distribution and sales sites are located in the United States, United Kingdom,
Germany,  France  and  Europe.

     In  May  1994,  the  shareholders  of  RHL  approved a reorganization and
reincorporation  of  RHL  resulting  in  the  exchange  of  the  shares of the
outstanding  common  stock  of  RHL  for  the  shares of ResMed.  In addition,
effective  in March 1995, the Company effected a 5:2 stock split.  As a result
of  the  reorganization,  reincorporation  and  the  stock split, the accounts
within the consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to reflect
a  par  value  of  $.004  per  share.   The board of directors also authorized
2,000,000  shares  of  $0.01  par  value preferred stock.  No such shares were
issued  or  outstanding  at  June  30,  1997.

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES

     (a)          Basis  of  Consolidation:

          The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ResMed
and  its wholly owned subsidiaries.  All significant transactions and balances
have  been  eliminated  in  consolidation.

     (b)          Use  of  Estimates:

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make estimates and
assumptions  that  affect  the  reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure  of  contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements  and  the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and expenses during the
reporting  period.    Actual  results  could  differ  from  those  estimates.

     (c)          Revenue  Recognition:

          Revenue  on  product sales is recorded at the time of shipment, when
earned.    Royalty  revenue  from  license agreements is recorded when earned.

     (d)          Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents:

          Cash  equivalents include certificates of deposit, commercial paper,
and  other  highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months
or  less  stated  at  cost,  which  approximates  market.

     (e)          Inventories:

          Inventories  are stated at the lower of cost, determined principally
by  the  first-in,  first-out  method,  or  net  realizable  value.

- -F6-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (f)          Property  and  Equipment:

          Property and equipment is recorded at cost.  Depreciation expense is
computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
assets,  generally  two  to ten years.  Amortization expense is computed using
the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the
assets  or  the  period  of  the related lease.  Straight-line and accelerated
methods  of  depreciation  are used for tax purposes.  Maintenance and repairs
are  charged  to  expense  as  incurred.

     (g)          Patents:

          The registration costs for new patents are capitalized and amortized
over  the  estimated  useful life of the patent, generally five years.  In the
event  of  a  patent  being  superseded or deemed to have no future value, the
unamortized  costs  are  written  off  immediately.

     (h)          Goodwill:

          Goodwill  arising  from  business  acquisitions  is  amortized  on a
straight-line  basis over periods ranging from three to 15 years.  The Company
carries  goodwill  at  cost  net  of  amortization.    The Company reviews its
goodwill  carrying  value  when  events  indicate  that an impairment may have
occurred  in  goodwill.   If, based on the undiscounted cash flows, management
determines  goodwill is overvalued, goodwill is written down to its discounted
cash  flow  value  and  the  amortization  period  is  re-assessed.

          Amortization  expense  of goodwill was $123,000 and $349,000 for the
years  ended  June  30,  1996  and  1997,  respectively.

     (i)          Government  Grants:

          Government  grants  revenue  is recognized when earned.  Grants have
been  obtained by ResMed from the Australian Federal Government to support the
continued  development  and  export  of  ResMed's  proprietary positive airway
pressure  technology and to assist development of export markets in the amount
of $527,000, $537,000 and $316,000 for the years ended June 30, 1995, 1996 and
1997,  respectively.

     (j)          Foreign  Currency:

          The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  ResMed's  non-U.S.
subsidiaries  are  translated  into  U.S.  Dollars  for  financial  reporting
purposes.    The  assets  and  liabilities  of  non-U.S.  subsidiaries  whose
functional  currencies  are  other than the U.S. Dollar are translated at year
end  exchange  rates.    Income  statements are translated at weighted average
rates.    The  cumulative  translation  effects are reflected in stockholders'
equity.    Gains  and  losses  on  transactions  denominated in other than the
functional  currency  of  the  entity  are  reflected  in  operations.

     (k)          Research  and  Development:

          All  research  and  development  costs  are  expensed  in the period
incurred.

- -F7-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (l)          Net  Income  per  Common  and  Common  Equivalent  Share:

          Net  income per common and common equivalent share is computed using
the weighted average number of shares outstanding adjusted for the incremental
shares  attributed  to  outstanding  options  to  purchase  common  stock  as
determined  under  the  treasury  stock  method.

     (m)          Financial  Instruments  :

     The  carrying  value of financial instruments, which consists of cash and
cash  equivalents,  foreign  currency  option  contracts  (included  in  other
assets),  government grants, accounts receivable, accounts payable, marketable
securities  and long-term debt approximate their fair value.  The Company does
not  hold  or  issue  financial  instruments  for  trading  purposes.

The  fair value of financial instruments is defined as the amount at which the
instrument  could  be  exchanged  in  a  current  transaction  between willing
parties.

     (n)          Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management:

     The  Company  enters  into various types of foreign exchange contracts in
managing its foreign exchange risk, including derivative financial instruments
encompassing  forward  exchange  contracts  and  foreign  currency  options.

     The  purpose  of  the Company's foreign currency hedging activities is to
protect  the  Company  from adverse exchange rate fluctuations with respect to
net  cash  movements resulting from the sales of products to foreign customers
and  Australian  manufacturing  activities.    The Company enters into foreign
currency  option  contracts  to  hedge  anticipated sales principally in Pound
Sterling and Deutschmarks.  The term of such currency derivatives is generally
less  than  three  years.

     Premiums  to enter certain foreign currency options are included in other
assets  and are amortized over the period of the agreement in the consolidated
statement  of income against other income, net.  Unamortized premiums amounted
to  $302,000  and  $565,000  at June 30, 1996 and June 30, 1997, respectively.

     Unrealized gains or losses are recognized as incurred in the consolidated
balance  sheets  as  either other assets or other liabilities and are recorded
within  other  income, net on the Company's consolidated statement of income. 
Unrealized  gains  and  losses on currency derivatives are determined based on
dealer  quoted  prices.

     The  Company  is  exposed  to  credit-related  losses  in  the  event  of
nonperformance  by  counterparts  to  financial  instruments,  but it does not
expect  any  counterparts will fail to meet their obligations given their high
credit  ratings.    The  credit  exposure  of  foreign  exchange  options  is
represented  by  the  fair  value of options with a positive fair value at the
reporting  date.    The  Company  does not require collateral on its financial
instruments.

     The  Company held foreign currency option contracts with notional amounts
totaling  $43,595,000  and  $22,752,000  at  June  30, 1996 and June 30, 1997,
respectively  to  hedge  foreign  currency  items.  These  contracts mature at
various  dates  prior  to  February  27,  1999.

- -F8-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

2.          SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

     (o)          Income  Taxes:

          ResMed  accounts  for  income  taxes  under  the asset and liability
method.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences  attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial statement
carrying  amounts  of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases.    Deferred  tax  assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax
rates  expected  to  apply  to  taxable  income  in  the  years in which those
temporary  differences  are  expected  to  be  recovered  or  settled.

     (p)          Marketable  Securities:

          The  Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
115,  "Accounting  for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" (FAS
115), on July 1, 1994.  There was no cumulative effect as a result of adopting
FAS  115  in  fiscal  1995.

          Management  determines  the  appropriate  classification  of  its
investments  in  debt  and  equity  securities  at  the  time  of purchase and
re-evaluates  such  determination at each balance sheet date.  Debt securities
for  which the Company does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity
are  classified  as  available  for  sale.   Securities available for sale are
carried  at  fair  value,  with  the  unrealized gains and losses, net of tax,
reported  in  a  separate  component  of  shareholders'  equity.

          At  June  30,  1996  and  1997,  the  Company's  investments in debt
securities  were  classified on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as
marketable  securities-available  for sale.  These investments are diversified
among  high  credit  quality  securities  in  accordance  with  the  Company's
investment  policy.

          The  amortized  cost  of debt securities classified as available for
sale  is  adjusted  for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to
maturity.    Such  amortization and interest are included in interest income. 
Realized  gains  and losses are included in other income or expense.  The cost
of  securities  sold  is  based  on  the  specific  identification  method.

     (q)          Accounting  Changes

          The  Company  adopted  SFAS  123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based
Compensation,"  in 1997, under which the Company elected to continue following
Accounting  Principles  Board (APB) Opinion 25.  The Company also adopted SFAS
121,  "Accounting  for  the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets  to  Be Disposed Of", in 1997.  The effects of the adoption of SFAS 121
was  not material to financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

- -F9-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

3.          MARKETABLE  SECURITIES

     The  fair  value  of marketable securities available for sale at June 30,
1996  and  1997,  was $18,021,000 and $18,908,000, respectively. The estimated
fair  value of each investment approximates the amortized cost, and therefore,
there  are  no  unrealized  gains  or  losses  as  of  June  30, 1996 or 1997.

     Expected  maturities  may  differ from contractual maturities because the
issuers  of  the  securities  may have the right to prepay obligations without
prepayment  penalties.

4.          INVENTORIES



5.          PROPERTY  AND  EQUIPMENT



- -F10-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

6.          ACCRUED  EXPENSES



7.          LONG-TERM  DEBT

     As  part  of  an  agreement  between  ResMed  and  the Australian Federal
Government,  ResMed  obtained  an $870,000 loan facility of which $867,000 and
$548,000  were  outstanding at June 30, 1996 and 1997, respectively.  The loan
facility  is unsecured and accrues interest at 3.8% per annum beginning May 3,
1996  through  April  3,  1999.    The  facility  is  payable  in  six monthly
installments  beginning  November 3, 1996.  Prior to May 3, 1996, the loan was
interest  free.



8.          STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

     Initial  Public  Offering

     On  June  2,  1995,  the  Company completed an initial public offering of
2,000,000 new shares of common stock at a price of $11.00 per share, resulting
in  net  proceeds  of  approximately  $18.9  million, after deducting issuance
costs.

     On  July  10,  1995,  the  underwriters  for  the  above-mentioned public
offering exercised their over-allotment of 450,000 new shares of common stock,
resulting  in  additional  net  proceeds  of approximately $4.5 million, after
deducting  issuance  costs.

- -F11-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

8.          STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)

     Stock  Options

     Prior to the formation of the Company, RHL, a wholly owned subsidiary, at
the  discretion  of  the directors, from time-to-time granted stock options to
key  personnel,  including  officers,  directors and outside consultants.  The
options  granted  by  RHL  were  exchanged  for  options with similar terms to
purchase  common  stock of ResMed and have subsequently been fully exercised. 
These  options  have  expiration  dates  of two to five years from the date of
grant  and  vested  immediately.

     The  Company  grants  stock  options to personnel, including officers and
directors  in  accordance  with  the  1995  Option  Plan.   These options have
expiration  dates  of ten years from date of grant and vest over three years. 
The  Company granted these options with the exercise price equal to the market
value  as  determined  at  the  date  of  grant.






- -F12-

                        RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

8.          STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)



     The  fair  value  of each stock option grant was estimated on the date of
grant  using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model  with  the  following
assumptions: weighted average risk-free interest rates of 5.8% for fiscal 1996
and  1997,  respectively; no dividend yield; expected lives of four years; and
volatility  of  62.7%.

Pro  forma  net  income  reflects  only  options  granted  in  1995 and 1996. 
Therefore,  the full impact of calculating compensation cost for stock options
under  SFAS 123 is not reflected in the pro forma net income amounts presented
above  because  compensation cost is reflected over the options vesting period
of  3  years  and  compensation  cost for options granted prior to, and not in
connection with, the Company's initial public offering on June 2, 1995 are not
considered.

Stock  Purchase  Rights

In  April 1997, the Company implemented a plan to protect stockholders' rights
in  the  event  of  a  proposed takeover of the Company.  Under the plan, each
share  of the Company's outstanding common stock carries one right to purchase
Series  A  Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock  (the  "Right").  The Right
enables  the  holder, under certain circumstances, to purchase common stock of
the Company or of the acquiring person at a substantially discounted price ten
days  after  a  person  or  group  publicly  announces  it has acquired or has
tendered an offer for 15% or more for the Company's outstanding common stock. 
The  Rights  are  redeemable  at  $0.01  per  Right  and  expire  in  2007.

9.          OTHER,  NET



- -F13-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997
9.          OTHER,  NET  (CONTINUED)

     In  November  1994,  the Company and an unrelated third-party     entered
into  a  marketing  rights agreement for the third-party to exclusively market
certain  respiratory  and related products under development by the Company in
the  Japanese  market.  Under  the  terms of the agreement, the third-party is
required  to  provide  up  to  $470,000  to the Company, of which $189,000 and
$242,000  has  been recognized in the consolidated statements of income during
the  years  ended  June 30, 1995 and June 30, 1996, respectively.  The amounts
recognized  were limited by certain performance requirements of the agreement.

10.          INCOME  TAXES



     The  provision  (benefit)  for  income  taxes  is  presented  below  (in
thousands)  :






- -F14-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

10.          INCOME  TAXES  (CONTINUED)



     The valuation allowance at June 30, 1996 and 1997, primarily relates to a
provision  for  uncertainty  as  to  the  utilization  of  net  operating loss
carryforwards.    The  net change in the valuation allowance was a decrease of
$21,000  an  increase  of  $125,000  and $475,000 for the years ended June 30,
1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.  The measurement of deferred tax assets and
liabilities  at  June  30  of  each year, reflect foreign currency translation
adjustments,  changes  in  enacted  tax  rates  and  changes  in  temporary
differences.    Income  taxes  in 1995, 1996 and 1997 were reduced by $11,000,
$8,000 and $27,000, respectively through the utilization of net operating loss
carryforwards.    Based  on  the  Company's  history of taxable income and its
projection of future earnings, management believes that it is more likely than
not that sufficient taxable income will be generated in the foreseeable future
to  realize  the  net  deferred  tax  asset.

     At  June  30,  1997, ResMed has net operating loss carryforwards for U.S.
federal income tax purposes of approximately $1,861,000 which are available to
offset  future  U.S. federal taxable income, if any, through 2010.  These have
not been recognized as the entity involved has not generated taxable income to
date.    The  majority  of  these  net  operating loss carryforwards relate to
deductions  for exercise of stock options which will be credited to additional
paid  in  capital  when  realized.

- -F15-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

11.          EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLANS

     ResMed  contributes  to  a  number  of  employee retirement plans for the
benefit  of  its  employees.    These  plans  are  detailed  as  follows:

     Australia

ResMed  contributes  to  defined  contribution pension plans for each employee
resident  in  Australia.   All Australian employees after serving a qualifying
period,  are  entitled  to  benefits  on  retirement,  disability  or  death. 
Employees,  may  contribute additional funds to the plans.  ResMed contributes
to  the  plans  at  the  rate  of  6% - 6.5% of the salaries of all Australian
employees.   Total Company contributions to the plans for the years ended June
30,  1995,  1996  and 1997 were $157,000, $374,000 and $318,000, respectively.

United  Kingdom

During  fiscal  1997  ResMed  established a defined contribution plan for each
permanent United Kingdom employee.  All employees, after serving a three month
qualifying period, are entitled to benefit on retirement, disability or death.
 Employees may contribute additional funds to the plan.  ResMed contributes to
the  plans  at the rate of 3% of the salaries.  Total Company contributions to
the  plan  for  the  year  ended  June  30,  1997  were  $4,000.

Unites  States

The  Company  sponsors  a  defined  contribution  pension  plan  available  to
substantially  all domestic employees.  Company contributions to this plan are
based on a percentage of employee contributions to a maximum of 3% of employee
salaries.    The  cost  of  this  plan  was  $39,000  in  fiscal  1997.

12.          SIGNIFICANT  CUSTOMERS

     ResMed's customers are located primarily in the United States, Europe and
Australia.    One  customer,  Medical  Gases  of  Australia,  accounted  for
approximately,  10%,  7%  and  6%  of  net  sales  in  1995,  1996  and  1997,
respectively,  and another customer, Priess, located in Germany, accounted for
approximately  15%  and  8%  of net sales in 1995 and 1996, respectively.  The
business  of  Priess  was  acquired  by  ResMed  on  February  7,  1996.

13          DEPENDENCE  ON  KEY  SUPPLIERS

     The  Company  purchases  two key components for its CPAP and VPAP devices
from  single source suppliers.  Management is attempting to qualify additional
sources  of  supply  for  these components; however, there can be no assurance
that  a  replacement  supplier  could  be  located  on  a timely basis or that
available inventories would be adequate to meet the Company's production needs
during  any  prolonged interruption of supply.  The Company's supplier for one
such  component is located in Europe.  Operations in Europe are subject to the
risks  normally  associated with foreign operations including, but not limited
to,  possible changes in export or import restrictions and the modification or
introduction of other governmental policies with potentially adverse effects. 
A  reduction  or  stoppage  in  supply,  or the Company's inability to develop
alternate  supply sources, if required, would limit its ability to manufacture
its  CPAP  and VPAP devices and therefore could adversely affect its business,
financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

- -F16-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

14.          GEOGRAPHIC  SEGMENT  INFORMATION

     ResMed  operates  primarily  in  the  respiratory  medicine  industry.  
Geographic  segments  have been classified into three regions; America, Europe
and  Australia/Rest  of  World.    America includes the U.S., Canada and South
America, Australia/Rest of World includes Australia, New Zealand, South Africa
and  Asia.



     Net  revenues  which  represent  net  sales to unaffiliated customers, is
based  on  the  location of the customers.  Transfers between geographic areas
are  recorded at amounts generally above cost and in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the respective governing tax authorities.  Operating income
or  loss  consists  of  total  net sales less operating expenses, and does not
include  either interest and other income, net, or income taxes.  Identifiable
assets  of  geographic areas are those assets used in the Company's operations
in  each  area.

- -F17-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

15.          RELATED  PARTY  TRANSACTIONS

     For  the  years  ended June 30, 1995, 1996 and 1997, legal and consulting
service  fees  in  the amount of $282,000, $314,000 and $353,000, were paid to
certain  directors  of  subsidiaries  and  director-related  entities  and
shareholders.

     Included in these amounts are payments made to Dr. Colin Sullivan for the
year ended June 30, 1995 in which year he was a director of a subsidiary.  Dr.
Sullivan  provides consulting services to the Company pursuant to a consulting
agreement  that  terminates  on December 31, 1997 (subject to extension for an
additional  five year term) for which he receives annual payments based on the
net sales (as defined in the Consulting Agreement) of certain of the Company's
products,  subject  to  a $90,000 per annum minimum payment.  The Company also
reimburses  Dr.  Sullivan  for  his  out-of-pocket expenses in performing such
consulting  services.

     The  Company  has  also  agreed to pay such amounts to Dr. Sullivan for a
period  of  24 months following the termination of his consulting relationship
with the Company in exchange for his agreement not to compete with the Company
during  this  period.  Total payments to Dr. Sullivan were, $228,000, $314,000
and  $353,000  for  the  Company's  fiscal years ended June 30, 1995, 1996 and
1997,  respectively.

16.          COMMITMENTS



     Rent  expense  under  operating leases for the years ended June 30, 1995,
1996 and 1997 was approximately $162,000, $467,000 and $585,000, respectively.

In  August  1997  the  Company  entered  into  an  agreement  to  purchase for
approximately  $3.6  million a 173,000 square ft  parcel  of land  in  close 
proximity  to  its  Australian  production facility.  It is  the  Company's 
intention to develop the site as its Australian Operations center from fiscal
1999 onwards.

- -F18-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

17.          BUSINESS  ACQUISITION






- -F19-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

17.          BUSINESS  ACQUISITION  (CONTINUED)



18.          LEGAL  ACTIONS

     The  Company  is  currently  engaged  in  significant  patent  litigation
relating to the enforcement and defense of certain of its patents. In 1992 the
Company's  original  Australian  patent,  which  was due to expire in 1998 and
covered  the CPAP method of treating, and the device for treatment of OSA, was
challenged  by  the  Australian  distributor  for Respironics, Inc. and in May
1994,  was  revoked  by  an  Australian  appeals  court  in reliance on issues
specific  to  Australian  patent  law. The Company's market share in Australia
decreased from 1995 and the Company expects that its market share in Australia
will continue to decrease.  The Company on May 29, 1997 paid $246,000 as total
and  final  settlement  of  costs  associated  with  the  litigation.

     In January 1995, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in
the  United  States against Respironics.  The complaint seeks monetary damages
from,  and  injunctive  relief  against Respironics resulting from its alleged
infringement of three of the Company's patents.  In February 1995, Respironics
filed  a  complaint  against  the  Company seeking a declaratory judgment that
Respironics  does  not infringe claims of these patents and that the Company's
patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The two actions have been combined and
will  proceed  in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.

- -F20-

                         RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1997

18.          LEGAL  ACTIONS  (CONTINUED)

     In  June  1996  the  Company  initiated  a further action in Pennsylvania
against Respironics regarding alleged infringement of a fourth patent, granted
June  4,  1996,  related  to  the  delay timer feature.  This action was again
consolidated  with the ongoing case such that the two remaining actions are to
proceed  together.  On July 1, 1997 the Court granted Respironics a motion for
partial  summary judgment in which Respironics alleged its accused products do
not  infringe  one  of the four patents in suit.  Based on legal advice ResMed
believes  there  are  grounds  to  appeal  this  dismissal  and it is ResMed's
intention  to seek reversal of the ruling by appeal to the United States Court
of  Appeal  for  the  Federal  Circuit.

     In May 1995, Respironics and its Australian distributor filed a statement
of  claim  against  the  Company  and  its  President  in the Federal Court of
Australia,  New South Wales District Registry.  The statement of claim alleges
that  the  Company  engaged in unfair trade practices, including the misuse of
the  power  afforded by its Australian patents and dominant market position in
violation  of  the  Australian  Trade  Practices  Act.  The statement of claim
asserts  damage  claims  in  the  aggregate  amount of approximately $730,000,
constituting  lost  profit on sales.  While the Company intends to defend this
action,  there  can  be  no  assurance  that the Company will be successful in
defending  such  action  or  that  the  Company  will  not be required to make
significant  payments  to  the claimants.  Furthermore, the Company expects to
incur  ongoing  legal  costs  in  defending  such  action.


- -F21-




                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934,  the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

DATED September 25, 1997         ResMed  Inc.

     By:                  /S/  PETER  C  FARRELL
     Peter  C.  Farrell,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer
     (Principal  Executive  Officer)


     By:                /S/  ADRIAN  M  SMITH
     Adrian  M.  Smith,  Chief  Financial  Officer
     (Principal  Financial  Officer)



- -26-


Schedule  II










- -27-


                                EXHIBIT INDEX


a)          The  following  documents  are  filed  as  part  of  this  report:

1.1          Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Schedule.

     The consolidated financial statements and schedule of the Company and its
consolidated  subsidiaries  are  set  forth  in  the  "Index  to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements"  under  Item  8  of  this  report.

3.       Exhibits.  The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report:
3.1          Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*
3.2          By-laws  of  Registrant*
4.1          Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*
4.2          Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997**
10.1          1995  Stock  Option  Plan*
10.2          Licensing  Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*
10.3      Amended and Restated Consulting Agreement between Colin Sullivan and
ResMed  Limited  dated  September  2,  1994*
10.4         Loan Agreement between the Australian Trade Commission and ResMed
Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*
10.5          Lease  for  82  Waterloo  Road,  Sydney,  Australia*
10.6          Lease  for  5744  Pacific  Center  Boulevard,  San  Diego,  USA*
11.1          Statement  re:  Computation  of  Earning  per  Share
16.1          Letter  regarding  change  in  Certifying  Accountant*
21.1          Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1          Consent  and  Report  on  Schedules  of  KPMG  Peat  Marwick LLP
27.1          Financial  Data  Schedule

*      Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.
**         Incorporated by reference from the registrants.  Report on Form 8-K
(File  No.  0-26038).

b)          Report  on  Form  8-K

     Report  filed on April 15, 1997 with respect to the adoptions of a rights
agreement  granting  shareholders  right  to  purchase  Series  A  Junior
Participating  preference  stock.




     Exhibit  11.1





     Exhibit  21.1
                                  RESMED INC
                        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT


ResMed  Holdings  Limited  (incorporated  under  the  laws of New South Wales,
Australia)

ResMed  Limited  (incorporated  under the laws of New South Wales, Australia)*

ResMed  Corporation  (a  Minnesota  corporation)*

ResMed  (UK)  Limited  (a  United  Kingdom  corporation)*

ResMed  International  Inc  (a  Delaware  corporation)

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  and  Co  Kg  (a  German  corporation)**

ResMed  SA  (a  French  corporation)**

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  (a  German  corporation)

*A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  Holdings  Limited
**  A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  International  Inc



     Exhibit  23.1

             INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT AND REPORT ON SCHEDULE

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc.:

The  audits  referred  to  in  our  report dated August 11, 1997, included the
related  financial  statement schedule as of June 30, 1997 and for each of the
years  in the three-year period ended June 30, 1997.  This financial statement
schedule  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.    Our
responsibility  is to  express an opinion on this financial statement schedule
based  on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
a  whole,  presents  fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

We  consent  to  incorporation by reference in the registration statement (No.
333-08013)  on  Form  S-8  of ResMed Inc. of our report dated August 11, 1997,
relating to the consolidated balance sheets of ResMed Inc. and subsidiaries as
of  June 30, 1996 and 1997, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders'  equity,  and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period  ended June 30, 1997, and the related schedule, which report appears in
the  June  30,  1997  annual  report  on  Form  10-K  of  ResMed  Inc.




/s/  KPMG  PEAT  MARWICK  LLP
KPMG  Peat  Marwick  LLP
San  Diego,  California
September  23,  1997


     Exhibit  27.1
                                  RESMED INC







