
10-K
0001.txt



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               WASHINGTON DC 20549
                                _________________

                                    FORM 10-K
                                _________________

              [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2000
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-26038

                                   RESMED INC
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)

     DELAWARE                                                98-0152841
(State or other jurisdiction of                (IRS Employer Identification  No)
incorporation or organization)

                             14040 DANIELSON STREET
                              POWAY  CA  92064-6857
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (858) 746 2400
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:

                              TITLE OF EACH CLASS:

                          Common Stock, $.004 Par Value
                       Rights to Purchase Series A Junior
                          Participating Preferred Stock

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding  12  months  (or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required  to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to filing requirements
for  the  past  90  days.
                            Yes [ X ]     No [     ]

Indicate  by  check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulations S-K (S 229.405 of this Chapter) is not contained herein and will
not  be  contained to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or
any  amendment  to  this  Form  10-K  [     ].

The  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  stock  held by non-affiliates of
Registrant  as  of  September 8, 2000, computed by reference to the closing sale
price  of  such  stock  on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange,  was  approximately
$885,000,000  (All  directors,  executive  officers,  and  10%  stockholders  of
Registrant  are  considered  affiliates.)

At  September  8,  2000, Registrant had 30,918,262 shares of Common Stock, $.004
par  value,  issued  and  outstanding.

Portions  of  Registrant's  definitive  Proxy Statement for its November 6, 2000
meeting  of  stockholders  are  incorporated  by reference into Part III of this
report.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE  INFORMATION  CONTAINED  IN THIS REPORT INCLUDES FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS,
WHICH  ARE   TYPICALLY  IDENTIFIED  BY   THE  WORDS  "ANTICIPATES",  "BELIEVES",
"EXPECTS",  "INTENDS",  "FORECASTS",  "PLANS", "FUTURE", "STRATEGY", OR WORDS OF
SIMILAR  IMPORT.  VARIOUS  IMPORTANT  FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO
DIFFER  MATERIALLY  FROM  THOSE  EXPRESSED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE
IDENTIFIED  BELOW  IN  PART  I,  ITEM  3  AND  PART  II,  ITEM 7 OF THIS REPORT.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- -2-


                                     PART I

Item  1     BUSINESS

GENERAL

ResMed is a leading developer, manufacturer and distributor of medical equipment
for  treating,  diagnosing  and managing sleep disordered breathing ('SDB'). SDB
includes  sleep apnea and related respiratory disorders that occur during sleep.
The  Company employs over 600 people and sells its products in over 50 countries
through a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and independent distributors.

When  ResMed  was  formed  in  1989,  its primary purpose was to commercialize a
device for treating obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).  Developed by Professor Colin
Sullivan  of the University of Sydney, nasal continuous positive airway pressure
(CPAP)  was  the  first  successful  noninvasive  treatment  of  OSA.

Since  1989,  ResMed has broadened its focus to cover sleep disordered breathing
in  all  its  manifestations.  Operations  have  expanded  rapidly  through  the
introduction  of  a  number of highly innovative product lines. As of June 2000,
the  Company's compound annual growth rate was in excess of market growth rates:
35%  for  sales  and  49%  for  net income, using fiscal 1996 as a base.  ResMed
believes  its success is due to a continuing focus on sleep disordered breathing
and  the development of therapeutic technology to ameliorate its serious medical
consequences.

CORPORATE  HISTORY

ResMed  Inc,  a  Delaware  corporation, was formed in March 1994 as the ultimate
holding  company  for  its  Australian,  European  and  United  States operating
subsidiaries.  On  June 1, 1995 the Company completed an initial public offering
of common stock and on June 2, 1995 the Company's common stock commenced trading
on  The  NASDAQ  National Market.  On September 30, 1999 the Company transferred
its  principal  public listing to the New York Stock Exchange, trading under the
ticker  symbol  RMD.  On  November 25, 1999, the Company established a secondary
listing  of  its  shares as Chess Depositary Instruments (CDI) on the Australian
Stock  Exchange, also under the symbol RMD.  (Ten ASX CDIs are equivalent to one
NYSE  share).  ResMed  Inc's  Australian  subsidiary,  ResMed  Holdings  Limited
('RHL'),  was  originally organized in 1989 by Dr. Peter Farrell to acquire from
Baxter Center for Medical Research Pty Limited ('Baxter'), the rights to certain
technology  relating  to CPAP treatment as well as Baxter's existing CPAP device
business.  Baxter had sold CPAP devices in Australia since 1988, having acquired
the  rights  to the technology in 1987 from Dr. Colin Sullivan of the University
of  Sydney,  who  invented nasal CPAP for the treatment of OSA.  Since 1989, the
Company  and  its  subsidiaries  have specialized in the design, manufacture and
marketing  of  nasal  CPAP  and  variable  positive  airway  pressure  ('VPAP ')
equipment  for  the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of  sleep  disordered breathing,
primarily  OSA.

The  Company acquired the distribution businesses of Dieter W Priess Medtechnik,
Premium  Medical  SARL,  Innovmedics  Pte  Ltd  and EINAR Egnell AB, its German,
French,  Singaporean  and  Swedish  distributors,  on February 7, 1996, June 12,
1996,  November  1,  1997  and  January  31,  2000,  respectively.

During  the  1999 fiscal year the Company made an equity investment in Flaga hf,
based  in  Iceland.  The  Company  now markets Flaga's polysomnographic products
under  the  Embla  label  in  the  US  and  selected  other  markets.

- -3-


OBSTRUCTIVE  SLEEP  APNEA

OSA  is  a  breathing  disorder  in  which an individual experiences a temporary
collapse  of  the  upper  airway  during  sleep.  This  restricts  breathing and
severely  disrupts  the  individual's  sleep.  Sleep  is  a complex neurological
process  that includes two distinct states: rapid eye movement ('REM') sleep and
non-rapid  eye  movement ('non-REM') sleep.  REM sleep, which is about 20-25% of
total  sleep  in  adults,  is  characterized  by a high level of brain activity,
bursts  of  rapid  eye  movement,  increased  heart  and  respiration rates, and
paralysis  of  many  muscles.  Non-REM sleep is subdivided into four stages that
generally  parallel  sleep  depth:  stage  1  is the lightest and stage 4 is the
deepest.

The  upper airway has no rigid support and is held open by active contraction of
upper  airway  muscles.  Normally, during REM sleep and deeper levels of non-REM
sleep,  upper  airway  muscles  relax  and the airway narrows.  Individuals with
narrow  upper  airways  or  poor  muscle  tone are prone to upper airway closure
during sleep (an 'apnea'), resulting in an inability to breathe, or near closure
(a  'hypopnea')   which  causes  snoring   and  breathing  difficulties.  These
breathing  irregularities  result  in  a lowering of blood oxygen concentration,
until  the  brain  reacts  to the lack of oxygen or increased carbon dioxide and
signals  the  body to respond.  Typically, the individual subconsciously arouses
from  sleep,  causing  the  throat muscles to contract, thus opening the airway.
After a few gasping breaths, blood oxygen levels increase and the individual can
resume  a deeper sleep until the cycle repeats itself.  The cycle of complete or
partial  upper  airway  closure  with  subconscious arousal to lighter levels of
sleep can be repeated as many as several hundred times during six to eight hours
of  sleep.  Sufferers  of  OSA  typically experience ten or more such cycles per
hour.  These  awakenings  greatly  impair  the  quality  of  sleep, although the
individual  is  not  normally  aware  of  these  disruptions.

Sleep fragmentation and the loss of the deeper levels of sleep caused by OSA can
lead  to  excessive  daytime  sleepiness,  reduced cognitive function (including
memory  loss  and  lack  of  concentration),  depression  and  irritability. OSA
sufferers  also  may  experience  an  increase in heart rate and an elevation of
blood  pressure  during  the  cycle  of  apneas.  OSA  has  been associated with
employment  difficulties,  marital discord, impotence and other adverse effects.
Patients  with  OSA  have  been  shown to have impaired daytime performance in a
variety  of  cognitive  functions  including problem solving, response speed and
visual  motor  coordination.  Certain  studies  have  linked  OSA  to  increased
occurrences  of  traffic and workplace accidents.  Several studies indicate that
the oxygen desaturation, increased heart rate and elevated blood pressure caused
by  OSA  may  be  associated with increased risk of hypertension, cardiovascular
morbidity  and  mortality  due  to  angina,  stroke  and  heart  attack.

THE  MARKET

In  its 'Wake Up America' report to Congress in 1993, the National Commission on
Sleep  Disorders Research estimated that approximately 40 million individuals in
the  United  States suffer from chronic disorders of sleep and wakefulness, such
as  sleep apnea, insomnia and narcolepsy.  According to this report, sleep apnea
is  the  most  common  sleep  disorder,  affecting  approximately  20  million
individuals  in the United States.  Nearly 6.5 million of these persons over the
age of 30 experience moderate to severe forms of sleep apnea.  However, there is
a  general  lack  of  awareness  of OSA among both the medical community and the
general  public,  which  has  led  to  a  corresponding  failure to diagnose the
disorder.  It  is  estimated that less than 5% of those persons afflicted by OSA
know  the  cause  of their fatigue or other symptoms.  Health care professionals
are often unable to diagnose OSA because they are unaware that such non-specific
symptoms  as  fatigue,  snoring  and  irritability  are  characteristic  of OSA.

- -4-



While  OSA  has been diagnosed in a broad cross-section of the population, it is
predominant  among  middle-aged  men  and  those  who  are obese, smoke, consume
alcohol  in  excess or use muscle-relaxing drugs.  In addition, patients who are
being  treated for certain other conditions, including those undergoing dialysis
treatment  or  suffering  from  diabetes,  may  be medically predisposed to OSA.
Recent  studies  have  also  shown  that  over  50%  of post stroke patients and
patients  with  congestive  heart  failure  have  significant  SDB.

Generally,  an  individual seeking treatment for the symptoms of OSA is referred
by a general practitioner to a specialist for further evaluation.  The diagnosis
of  OSA typically requires monitoring the patient during sleep at either a sleep
clinic  or the patient's home.  During overnight testing, respiratory parameters
and  sleep  patterns  are  monitored  along with other vital signs such as blood
pressure, heart rate and blood oxygen levels. These tests allow sleep clinicians
to  detect  any  sleep  disturbances  such  as apneas, hypopneas or subconscious
awakenings.

The  Company estimates that there are currently more than 2,000 sleep clinics in
the United States, a substantial portion of which are affiliated with hospitals.
Sleep clinics generally range in size from one to six beds.  The number of sleep
clinics  has  expanded  significantly  from approximately 100 such facilities in
1985.  The  Company believes that despite the increase in sleep clinics, testing
facilities  currently  remain  inadequate  to  address  the  large population of
undiagnosed  OSA  sufferers.

EXISTING  THERAPIES

Prior  to  1981,  the  primary  treatment  for OSA was a tracheotomy, a surgical
procedure  to  cut  a  hole  in  the  patient's windpipe to create a channel for
airflow.  Most  recently,  surgery has involved either uvulopalatopharyngoplasty
('UPPP'),  in  which  surgery  is performed on the upper airway to remove excess
tissue  and to streamline the shape of the airway, or mandibular advancement, in
which  the lower jaw is moved forward to widen the patient's airway.  UPPP alone
has  a poor success rate; however, when performed in conjunction with mandibular
advancement,  a greater success rate has been claimed.  This combined procedure,
performed  by  highly  specialized surgeons, is expensive and involves prolonged
and  often  painful  recovery  periods.

Nasal  CPAP was first used as a treatment for OSA in 1980 by Dr. Colin Sullivan,
the  Chairman  of  the  Company's  Medical  Advisory  Board.  CPAP  systems were
commercialized  for  treatment  of  OSA  in the United States in the mid 1980's.
Today,  use  of  nasal positive airway pressure is generally acknowledged as the
most  effective  and  least  invasive  therapy  for  managing  OSA.  The Company
estimates  that  during  fiscal  2000,  CPAP  treatment  was prescribed for over
200,000  new  patients  in  the  United  States.

During  nasal  CPAP treatment, a patient sleeps with a nasal mask connected to a
small portable air flow generator that delivers room air at a positive pressure.
The  patient breathes in air from the flow generator and breathes out through an
exhaust  port  in the mask.  Continuous air pressure applied in this manner acts
as  a  pneumatic  splint  to  keep the upper airway open and unobstructed.  Upon
diagnosis  of  OSA  and  the  decision  to  prescribe  CPAP treatment for an OSA
sufferer,  the  physician must determine an appropriate pressure setting for the
CPAP device.  This pressure titration (adjustment) procedure typically occurs in
the  sleep  clinic  while  the  patient  sleeps  using  the  CPAP  device, and a
technician  manually  increases  the  pressure  until sleeping and breathing are
normalized.  After determination of the proper therapeutic pressure, the patient
is  prescribed  a nasal CPAP device set to that pressure for home use.  However,
recently developed autotitrating  devices, including ResMed's AutoSet T positive
airway  pressure  device,  are  designed  to  set  appropriate  pressure  levels
automatically  in  response  to  the  patient's  breathing  patterns.

- -5-


CPAP  is  not a cure but a therapy for managing OSA, and therefore, must be used
on  a daily basis as long as treatment is required.  Patient compliance has been
a  major  factor  in  the efficacy of CPAP treatment.  Early generations of CPAP
units  provided  limited  patient comfort and convenience.  Patients experienced
soreness  from the repeated use of nasal masks and had difficulty falling asleep
with  the  CPAP  device  operating  at  the prescribed pressure.  In more recent
years,  product  innovations to improve patient comfort and compliance have been
developed.  These  include  more  comfortable  mask  systems, delay timers which
gradually  raise  air  pressure allowing the patient to fall asleep more easily,
and bilevel flow generators, including VPAP systems, which provide different air
pressures  for  inhalation  and  exhalation.

BUSINESS  STRATEGY

ResMed  believes that the SDB market will increase in the future due to a number
of  factors including increasing awareness of OSA, improved understanding of the
role  of  SDB  treatment  in  the  management of cardiac, neurologic and related
disorders,  and  an  increase  in  home-based  diagnosis.

ResMed's  strategy  for the expansion of its business operations consists of the
following  key  elements:

Continue  Product  Development  and  Innovation - ResMed is committed to ongoing
innovation  in  developing  products  for  the  diagnosis and treatment of sleep
disordered breathing. Since its founding, ResMed has been a leading innovator in
products  designed  to  increase  patient  comfort and encourage compliance with
therapy.  ResMed  believes that continued product development and innovation are
key  factors  in  its  ongoing  success.

Expand  Geographic  Presence -  ResMed markets its products in over 50 countries
to  sleep  clinics,  home  health  care  dealers and managed care organizations.
ResMed  intends  to  increase  its  sales and marketing efforts in its principal
markets,  as  well as expand its presence in the cardiac and neurologic sectors.

Increase  Public  and Clinical Awareness - ResMed intends to expand its existing
promotion  activities  in  the awareness and prevalence of SDB and its treatment
alternatives  within  three  main  groups:

(1)     The  population  with  predisposition  to  SDB.
(2)     Primary  care  physicians  and other specialists, such as cardiologists,
        neurologists,  and  pulmonologists.
(3)     Special  interest  groups,  such  as  sleep  disorder  support  groups.

As  part of this program ResMed will continue its significant Clinical Education
programs  including  the  sponsorship  of  international  symposia  on different
clinical  effects  of  SDB,  including  the  cardiovascular  and cerebrovascular
implications  of  SDB.  As  well  as providing a forum for exchange of ideas and
information  for  attending healthcare professionals, results of each conference
will  be  published  and  distributed.  ResMed  also intends to use its existing
public  relations and general marketing programs to further promote awareness of
SDB  to  both  physicians  and  the  general  public.

Expand  into  New  Markets  -  ResMed as a strategic goal believes in developing
strong  links  to  the  medical  community  both  to  identify new directions in
treatment  and  markets  for  its  products. As such the Company maintains close
working  relationships  with  a large number of prominent  physicians to explore
new medical applications for its products and technology.  The Company is moving
into  new medical areas significantly affected by SDB, namely stroke, congestive
heart  failure  (CHF),  and  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  disease  (COPD).

- -6-


As  part  of  its  research focus ResMed maintains extensive external as well as
internal  research  programs  including  programs  in  the  treatment of stroke,
cardiac  and  post-operative  surgery  patients.

PRODUCTS

FLOW  GENERATORS

Currently,  ResMed  produces  nasal  CPAP,  VPAP  and  AutoSet  systems  for the
diagnosis,  titration  and  treatment  of  SDB. These are flow generator systems
which  deliver  positive airway pressure through a small nasal mask. The flow of
air  acts  like  an  "air  splint"  to  keep the patient's upper airway open and
prevent  apneas.  These  apneas  occur  when  the muscles that normally hold the
airway  open  during  sleep,  relax  too much and close the airway off.  AutoSet
systems  are  based  on  a  proprietary  technology that can also be used in the
diagnosis  of  OSA.

ResMed  also  manufactures air delivery systems that include nasal masks, tubing
and  headgear  to  connect  the  flow  generator  to the patient. In addition, a
growing  range  of sleep laboratory products and other accessories which improve
patient  comfort,  convenience  and  compliance  are  marketed.

CPAP  and VPAP  - Introduced in June 2000, the ResMed S6 flow generators are the
Company's  main  CPAP  flow  generator  products. Each of the four models in the
range  is  small,  compact  and  comes with different features to suit different
patient  needs.  The ResMed S6 represents a significant improvement over earlier
CPAP  flow  generator  products  with SPL decibel noise levels at 10 cm of water
pressure  reduced from 40.3 db on the original Sullivan V CPAP to 29.4 db on the
S6  Lightweight.  To  the  human  ear,  this  represents  a  noise  reduction of
approximately  50  percent.

ResMed  also manufactures Variable Positive Airways Pressure (VPAP ) units which
deliver  ultra-quiet,  comfortable  bilevel  therapy.  There  are  two  preset
pressures:  a higher pressure as the patient breathes in and a lower pressure as
the patient breathes out. Breathing out against a lower pressure makes treatment
more  comfortable,  particularly  for patients who need high pressure levels, or
for  patients  with  impaired  breathing  ability.

There  are  five  models in the VPAP  range: the VPAP  II, the Comfort, the VPAP
II  ST,  the  VPAP  II  ST-A  and  the  VPAP  MAXTM.

The  VPAP  MAXTM  is  a  Ventilatory  Support  System for the treatment of adult
patients  with  respiratory  insufficiency  or respiratory failure. In 1998, the
system  received  FDA  clearance  for  the  US  hospital  critical  care market.


AutoSet  T  - In March 1999, the Company introduced the AutoSet  T home positive
airway  pressure  unit  for  use  in  the  treatment  of  SDB  conditions. While
conventional  CPAP  units  operate  at  a  fixed  CPAP pressure, actual pressure
required  for  effective  treatment of OSA can vary depending on factors such as
weight  change,  alcohol  consumption,  sedative  use,  stage  of sleep and body
position.  The  AutoSet  T is designed to continually detect the level of airway
resistance  and  adjust  the  air  pressure to the required level throughout the
night.  This  results  in  greater  patient comfort and reduced pressure related
side  effects.

CPAP  and  VPAP  Flow generators accounted for approximately 60%, 64% and 66% of
the  Company's  net  revenues  in  fiscal  2000,  1999  and  1998  respectively.

- -7-



- -8-


DIAGNOSTIC  PRODUCTS

Fully  portable  respiratory  sleep  studies  -  ResMed  markets devices for the
diagnosis,  titration  and  treatment  of  SDB  in  sleep clinics, hospitals and
patients' homes. These fully portable systems give sleep clinics and specialists
the  means  to  expand  their  capabilities  and  increase  patient  throughput.

The  AutoSet  Portable  II  Plus  with AutoSet  Clinical III software is used to
diagnose  OSA in sleep clinics, hospitals or patients' homes. The system records
all  relevant  respiratory  data, which can then be downloaded to a computer for
review  and  print  out.

The  ResControl  was  introduced  in  September  of  1999 and supersedes the UCU
product  line  of  controllers.  The  ResControl  is used locally or remotely to
monitor  and adjust ResMed CPAP, VPAP or AutoSet T flow generators.  An internal
pressure  transducer  enables  the  clinician  to interface with polysomnography
(PSG)  to  monitor airflow in both titration and diagnostic studies.  ResControl
will  also  monitor  the  pressure  of any flow generator without the need for a
separate  manometer.

AutoScan  Compliance  2.0  Software was introduced in March of 1999 for use with
the  AutoSet T flow generator.  AutoScan 2.0 collects compliance data.  Efficacy
data is collected in the form of an AHI (apnea hypopnea index) and mask or mouth
leak  information.  This  data  allows  evaluation  of  the effectiveness of the
therapy.  In  February  2000  AutoScan 3.0 was introduced and functions with all
ResMed  flow generators.  AutoScan 3.0 supersedes SCAN 2.0 by providing a single
software  platform  for  the  entire  ResMed  flow  generator  range.

In  October 1999, ResMed commenced distribution of Flaga's Embla Sleep Recorder,
which  can  carry out a full sleep diagnosis equivalent to that performed during
an  overnight stay in a sleep laboratory.  The Embletta PDS (Portable Diagnostic
System)  is a pocketsize digital recording device that aids clinicians by making
ambulatory  sleep  studies  convenient and reliable.  It is for the diagnosis of
sleep disordered breathing and is scheduled for release during fiscal year 2001.


INNOVATIVE  MASK  SYSTEMS

Mirage  Nasal  Masks  -  In August 1997, ResMed released the Mirage mask system.
The Mirage is suitable for both conventional CPAP and bilevel therapy, is small,
lightweight,  and  designed for maximum patient comfort. The specially contoured
silicone  cushion  inflates with air pressure to gently 'float' on the patient's
face.  A  number  of  other  design features enhance comfort and convenience and
ensure  effective  pressure  delivery.

In June 2000 ResMed released its second generation Mirage Mask system, the Ultra
Mirage  Mask.  The  Ultra  Mirage  mask represents a major improvement in noise,
facial  pressure  and  seal over the standard Mirage mask systems.  In addition,
the  Ultra  Mirage  mask  systems  have been designed to fit most people so that
clinicians  can  fit  masks  faster and more easily. Inventory costs can also be
reduced with the Mirage as it eliminates the need to carry a large range of mask
types  and  sizes.

The  MirageFull  Face  Mask  -  Released in June 1999, the Mirage Full Face mask
expands  on the innovative design of the Mirage nasal mask. The Mirage Full Face
Mask  provides  an  effective method of applying ventilatory assist (Noninvasive
Positive  Pressure  Ventilation  -  NPPV  -  therapy) and can be used to address
mouth-breathing  problems  in  conventional  bilevel  or  CPAP  therapy.

- -9-


A  range of other mask systems - ResMed also sells a patented Bubble Mask, which
uses a cushion made from a thin, soft silicone membrane that readily conforms to
the  patient's  facial  contours  to  form a seal and minimize air leakage.  The
cushion  complies  with body movement and eliminates the need for tight headgear
to  form  a  secure seal.  In addition to this, the Company also sells cushions,
frames  and headgear separately.  Typically, patients replace mask cushions once
or  twice  a  year  and  headgear  every  three  to  six  months.

All  ResMed  mask  systems  are  available  in  a  variety of sizes and are sold
independently  of  ResMed  systems, either as replacement products or with other
manufacturers'  devices.  The  Company  also manufactures the Bubble Mask  on an
OEM  basis  for  one  of  its  competitors.

Sales  of  mask  systems,  accessories  and  other  products  accounted  for
approximately  40%,  36%  and  34% of the Company's net revenues in fiscal 2000,
1999  and  1998,  respectively.

ACCESSORIES  AND  OTHER  PRODUCTS

To enhance patient comfort, convenience and compliance, ResMed markets a variety
of  other products and accessories.  These products include humidifiers, such as
the  SULLIVAN  HumidAire  ,  which connect directly with the CPAP and VPAP  flow
generators  to  humidify and, if desired, heat the air delivered to the patient.
Their  use  prevents  the  drying  of nasal passages which can cause discomfort.
Other  optional accessories include a passover, non-heated humidifier carry bags
and  breathing  circuits.

PRODUCT  DEVELOPMENT

The  Company  is  committed  to  an  ongoing  program of product advancement and
development.  Currently,  product  development  efforts  are  focused on AutoSet
systems,  improved  CPAP, VPAP and mask systems and manufacturing cost-reduction
programs.

The Company consults with physicians at major sleep centers throughout the world
to  identify  technological  trends  in  the  treatment  of  SDB.  Some of these
physicians currently serve on the Company's Medical Advisory Board.  New product
ideas  are also identified by the Company's marketing staff, direct sales force,
network of distributors, manufacturers' representatives and patients. Typically,
ResMed's  internal  development  staff  then  perform  new  product development.

In  the  three  fiscal  years  ended  June  30, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company
expended  $8,499,000,  $6,542,000  and  $4,994,000 respectively, on research and
development.

SALES  AND  MARKETING

The  Company currently markets its products in over 50 countries using a network
of distributors, independent manufacturers' representatives and its direct sales
force.  The  Company  attempts to tailor its marketing approach to each national
market,  based  on  regional  awareness  of  SDB  as a health problem, physician
referral  patterns,  consumer  preferences  and  local  reimbursement  policies.

North  America  -  In  the United States, the Company's marketing activities are
conducted  through a field sales organization comprised of 24 regional territory
representatives,  program  development  specialists  and  diagnostic  system
specialists, plus two regional sales directors and 45 independent manufacturers'
representatives.  The  United  States field sales organization markets and sells
products  to more than 4,000 home health care dealer branch locations throughout
the  United  States.

- -10-


The  Company  also  promotes and markets its products directly to sleep clinics.
Patients  who are diagnosed with OSA and prescribed CPAP treatment are typically
referred by the diagnosing sleep clinic to a home health care dealer to fill the
prescription.  The  home  health care dealer, in consultation with the referring
physician,  will  assist the patient in selecting the equipment, fit the patient
with  the appropriate mask and set the flow generator pressure to the prescribed
level.  In  the  United  States,  sales  employees  and  manufacturers'
subrepresentatives  are  managed  by  two regional Sales Managers, a Director of
Sales  and  ultimately  the  Company's  Senior  Vice  President  -  US Sales and
Marketing.

The  Company also maintain an extensive marketing presence in the North American
market.  The  Company's  Canadian and Latin American sales are conducted through
independent distributors.  Sales in North America accounted for 54%, 57% and 52%
of the Company's net revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000, 1999 and
1998,  respectively.




Europe  -  The  Company  markets  its products in most major European countries.
ResMed  has wholly owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany, France and
from  February  2000  Sweden,  and  uses  independent  distributors  to sell its
products  in  other  areas  of Europe.  These distributors have been selected in
each  country  based  on  their  knowledge  of respiratory medicine as well as a
commitment  to  SDB  therapy.  In  each  country  in  which  the  Company  has a
subsidiary, a local senior manager is responsible for direct national sales.  In
addition,  the  Company  uses a consultant in Switzerland to assist in sales and
marketing  efforts  for  selected  European  countries.

The  Company's  Executive  Vice President is responsible for coordination of all
European  distributors  and,  in  conjunction  with local management, the direct
sales  activity in Europe. Sales in Europe accounted for 35%, 34% and 35% of the
Company's  total net revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000, 1999 and
1998,  respectively.

Australia/Rest  of  World-   Marketing in Australia and the rest of the world is
the  responsibility of the Executive Vice President.  Sales in Australia and the
rest  of  the  world  accounted  for  11%, 9% and 13% of the Company's total net
revenues  for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

MANUFACTURING

The  Company's  principal  manufacturing  facilities  are  located  in  Sydney,
Australia  and  comprise  a  120,000  square feet manufacturing and research and
development  facility.  The Company's manufacturing operations consist primarily
of assembly and testing of the Company's flow generators, masks and accessories.
Of  the  numerous  raw materials, parts and components purchased for assembly of
the  Company's  therapeutic  and  diagnostic  sleep  disorder products, most are
off-the-shelf  items  available  from  multiple  vendors.  The Company generally
manufactures to its internal sales forecasts and fills orders as received.  As a
result,  the  Company  generally  has  no  significant backlog of orders for its
products.  The  Company's  quality control group performs tests at various steps
in  the  manufacturing  cycle  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  Company's
specifications.

The  Company  uses management information systems to integrate its manufacturing
planning,  billing  and  accounting  systems.

- -11-


SERVICE  AND  WARRANTY

The  Company  generally  offers  one-to-two  year limited warranties on its flow
generator  products.  Warranties  on  mask  systems  are  for  90 days.  In most
markets, the Company relies on its distributors to repair the Company's products
with  parts  supplied  by  the  Company.  In the United States, home health care
dealers  generally  arrange  shipment  of  products  to  the Company's San Diego
facility  for  repair.

The  Company  has  received  returns  of its products from the field for various
reasons.  The  Company  believes that the level of returns it has experienced to
date is consistent with levels typically experienced by manufacturers of similar
devices.  The  Company  provides  for warranties and returns based on historical
data.

THIRD-PARTY  REIMBURSEMENT

The cost of medical care is funded in substantial part by government and private
insurance  programs.  Although  the  Company does not generally receive payments
for  its products directly from these payors, the Company's success is dependent
upon  the ability of patients to obtain adequate reimbursement for the Company's
products.

In  the  United  States,  the Company's products are purchased primarily by home
health  care dealers, hospitals or sleep clinics, which then invoice third-party
payors directly.  Domestically third-party payors include Medicare, Medicaid and
corporate  health  insurance plans.  These payors may deny reimbursement if they
determine  that a device is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment
methods,  or  is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate.  Third-party payors
are  also  increasingly  challenging  prices  charged  for  medical products and
services,  and  certain  private  insurers  have initiated reimbursement systems
designed  to  reduce  health  care  costs.  The  long-term trend towards managed
health care could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care
services  and  products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care,
may  result  in  lower  prices  for  the  Company's  products.

In  some  foreign  markets,  such  as  Spain,  France  and  Germany,  government
reimbursement  is  currently  available  for purchase or rental of the Company's
products  subject,  however, to constraints such as price controls or unit sales
limitations.  In  Australia and in some other foreign markets there is currently
limited  or  no  reimbursement  for  devices  that  treat  OSA.




COMPETITION

The  markets  for  the  Company's  products are highly competitive.  The Company
believes  that  the  principal  competitive  factors  in  all of its markets are
product  features, reliability and price.  Reputation and efficient distribution
are  also  important  factors.

The Company competes on a market-by-market basis with various companies, some of
which  have  greater  financial, research, manufacturing and marketing resources
than the Company.  In the United States, its principal market, Respironics, Inc.
('Respironics'),  DeVilbiss,  a  division  of  Sunrise Medical Inc., and Nellcor
Puritan  Bennett, a subsidiary of Mallinckrodt, Inc. are the primary competitors
for  the  Company's CPAP products.  The Company's principal European competitors
are also Respironics, DeVilbiss and Nellcor Puritan Bennett, as well as regional
European manufacturers.  The disparity between the Company's resources and those
of  its  competitors  may  increase  as  a  result  of  the recent trend towards
consolidation  in the health care industry.  In addition, the Company's products
compete with surgical procedures and dental appliances designed to treat OSA and
other  SDB related respiratory conditions.  The development of new or innovative
procedures  or devices by others could result in the Company's products becoming
obsolete  or  noncompetitive,  resulting  in  a  material  adverse effect on the
Company's  business,  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

- -12-


Any  product  developed by the Company that gains regulatory clearance will have
to  compete for market acceptance and market share.  An important factor in such
competition  may  be  the timing of market introduction of competitive products.
Accordingly,  the  relative  speed  with which the Company can develop products,
complete  clinical  testing  and  regulatory  clearance  processes  and  supply
commercial  quantities of the product to the market are expected to be important
competitive  factors.  In  addition,  the  Company's  ability  to  compete  will
continue  to  be  dependent  on the extent to which the Company is successful in
protecting  its  patents  and  other  intellectual  property.

PATENTS  AND  PROPRIETARY  RIGHTS  AND  RELATED  LITIGATION

The  Company, through its subsidiary ResMed Limited, owns or has licensed rights
to  20  issued  United States patents (including 5 design patents) and 33 issued
foreign  patents.  In  addition,  there  are  83  pending  United  States patent
applications  (including  9  design patent applications) and 128 pending foreign
patent  applications.  Some  of  these patents and patent applications relate to
significant  aspects  and  features  of  the  Company's products.  These include
United States patents relating to CPAP devices, a delay timer system, the Bubble
Mask  ,  and  an  automated means of varying air pressure based upon a patient's
changing  needs  during  nightly  use,  such  as  that employed in the Company's
AutoSet  devices.

None  of the Company's patents is due to expire in the next five years, with the
exception  of  four  foreign  patents  due to expire in April 2002.  The Company
believes  that  the expiration of these patents will not have a material adverse
impact  on  the  Company's  competitive  position.

The  Company  relies on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trade marks and
non-disclosure  agreements  to  protect  its  proprietary technology and rights.
ResMed Limited is pursuing an infringement action against one of its competitors
and  is  investigating  possible  infringement  by  others.  See Item 3 - 'Legal
Proceedings'.

Additional  litigation  may be necessary to attempt to enforce patents issued to
the  Company,  to  protect  the  Company's  proprietary  rights,  or  to  defend
third-party  claims  of infringement by the Company of the proprietary rights of
others.  Patent  laws  regarding the enforceability of patents vary from country
to  country.  Therefore,  there  can  be no assurance that patent issues will be
uniformly  resolved, or that local laws will provide the Company with consistent
rights  and  benefits.

GOVERNMENT  REGULATIONS

The  Company's  products  are subject to extensive regulation particularly as to
safety,  efficacy  and  adherence  to  FDA  Quality  System Regulation (QSR) and
related  manufacturing  standards.  Medical  device  products  are  subject  to
rigorous  FDA and other governmental agency regulations in the United States and
regulations  of  relevant  foreign  agencies  abroad.  The  FDA  regulates  the
introduction,  manufacture,  advertising,  labeling,  packaging,  marketing,
distribution,  and  record  keeping  for  such products, in order to ensure that
medical  products  distributed  in  the United States are safe and effective for
their  intended  use.  In  addition,  the FDA is authorized to establish special
controls to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of most
devices.  Noncompliance  with  applicable  requirements  can  result  in  import
detentions,  fines,  civil  penalties,  injunctions,  suspensions  or  losses of
regulatory  approvals,  recall  or  seizure of products, operating restrictions,
refusal  of  the  government to approve product export applications or allow the
Company  to  enter  into  supply  contracts,  and  criminal  prosecution.


- -13-


The  FDA  requires that a manufacturer introducing a new medical device or a new
indication  for use of an existing medical device obtain either a Section 510(k)
premarket  notification  clearance  or  a premarket approval ('PMA') prior to it
being  introduced  into the market. The Company's products currently marketed in
the  United  States are marketed in reliance on 510(k) pre-marketing clearances.
The  process  of  obtaining  a  Section  510(k) clearance generally requires the
submission  of performance data and often clinical data, which in some cases can
be  extensive, to demonstrate that the device is "substantially equivalent" to a
device  that  was on the market prior to 1976 or to a device that has been found
by  the  FDA  to  be "substantially equivalent" to such a pre-1976 device.  As a
result,  FDA  approval  requirements  may  extend  the development process for a
considerable  length  of  time.  In addition, in some cases, the FDA may require
additional  review by an advisory panel, which can further lengthen the process.
The  PMA  process,  which is reserved for new devices that are not substantially
equivalent  to  any predicate device and for high risk devices or those that are
used  to  support or sustain human life, may take several years and requires the
submission  of  extensive  performance  and  clinical  information.

As  a  medical  device  manufacturer,  the Company is subject to inspection on a
routine  basis  by  the  FDA  for  compliance  with  the  FDA's QSR which impose
procedural  and documentation requirements with respect to design, manufacturing
and  quality  control  activities.  The  Company  believes  that  its  design,
manufacturing  and  quality  control  procedures  meet  the  requirements of the
regulations.

Sales  of  medical  devices  outside the United States are subject to regulatory
requirements that vary widely from country to country.  Approval for sale of the
Company's  medical  devices  in  Europe  is  through  the  CE mark process.  The
Company's  products  where  appropriate,  are  CE  marked to the European Unions
Medical  Device  Directive.

EMPLOYEES

As  of June 30, 2000, the Company had 605 employees or full time consultants, of
which 239 persons were employed in warehousing and manufacturing, 85 in research
and  development,  156 in sales and marketing and 125 in administration.  Of the
Company's  employees  and consultants, 389 were located in Australia, 113 in the
United  States,  93  in  Europe  and  10 in Singapore, New Zealand and Malaysia.

The  Company  believes that the success of its business will depend, in part, on
its  ability  to  attract and retain qualified personnel.  None of the Company's
employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  The Company believes
that  its  relationship  with  its  employees  is  good.

MEDICAL  ADVISORY  BOARD

ResMed's international Medical Advisory Board ('MAB') consists of physicians and
scientists specializing in the field of sleep disordered breathing.  MAB members
meet  as  a  group  twice  a year with members of ResMed's senior management and
members  of  its  research  and  marketing  departments to advise the Company on
technology  trends  in  SDB  and other developments in sleep disorders medicine.
MAB  members  are  also  available  to consult on an as-needed basis with senior
management  of  the  Company.  In  alphabetical  order,  MAB  members  include:

CLAUDIO  BASSETTI  -  Dr  Claudio  Bassetti  is  a  Professor  in the Faculty of
Medicine,  University  of  Zurich, where he is the Director and Vice-Chairman of
the  Neurological Clinic.  A member of the American Academy of Neurology and the
American  Sleep  Disorders  Association,  Dr  Bassetti  is  also a member of the
scientific board of the European Sleep Research Society, and an associate editor
of  'Sleep  Medicine'.  He  is  on  the  editorial  board  of 'Swiss Archives of
Neurology and Psychiatry and has produced over 100 publications.  Dr Bassetti is
a  leader  in studying the implications of sleep disordered breathing on stroke.

- -14-


MICHAEL  COPPOLA,  MD,  is a leading pulmonary critical care and sleep disorders
physician in private practice in Massachusetts.  He is an attending physician at
Baystate  Medical  Center  and Mercy Hospital in Springfield, MA and a Fellow of
the  American  College  of Chest Physicians. He is Chairman of the Massachusetts
Sleep  Breathing  Disorders  Society.  He is also the Medical Director of Winmar
Diagnostics,  a  sleep  disordered  breathing  specialty  company, and Associate
Clinical  Professor  of  Medicine  at  Tufts  University  School  of  Medicine.

TERENCE  M  DAVIDSON  (Ex  officio),  MD,  FACS,  is Professor of Surgery in the
Division  of  Otolaryngology  -  Head  and  Neck  Surgery  at  the University of
California, San Diego, School of Medicine.  He is Section Chief of Head and Neck
Surgery at the Veterans Administration San Diego Healthcare System and Associate
Dean  for Continuing Medical Education at UCSD.  He is also director of the UCSD
Head  and  Neck  Surgery  Sleep  Clinic  in  La  Jolla,  CA.




NEIL  J  DOUGLAS,  MD  FRCP,  is  Professor  of  Respiratory and Sleep Medicine,
University  of  Edinburgh,  an Honorary Consultant Physician, Royal Infirmary of
Edinburgh  and Director of the Scottish National Sleep Laboratory. He is Dean of
the  Royal  College of Physicians of Edinburgh and Vice Chairman of the UK Royal
Colleges  Committee  of CME Directors and a member of the Working Party on Sleep
Apnea  of  the  Royal College of Physicians of London.  He is a past Chairman of
the British Sleep Society and past Secretary of the British Thoracic Society. He
has  published  over  200  papers  on  breathing  during  sleep.

NICHOLAS  HILL, MD, is Professor of Medicine at Brown University and Director of
Critical  Care  Services  at Rhode Island Hospital and Pulmonary Medicine at the
Miriam  Hospital,  both in Providence. He is a Fellow of the American College of
Chest  Physicians  and  a  member  of  the  Planning  Committee for the American
Thoracic  Society.  His  main  research  interests  are in the acute and chronic
applications  of  non-invasive  positive  pressure ventilation for treating lung
disease.

BARRY  J  MAKE,  MD,  is Director, Emphysema Center and Pulmonary Rehabilitation
National Jewish Medical and Research Center, and Professor of Pulmonary Sciences
and Critical Care Medicine of the University of Colorado School of Medicine.  He
has served on numerous national and international committees for respiratory and
cardiovascular diseases.  His research and clinical work has resulted in a large
number  of  publications  on mechanisms, treatment and rehabilitation of chronic
respiratory  disease.

COLIN  SULLIVAN,  MD  PhD  FRACP, FAA is Chairman of the MAB and the inventor of
nasal CPAP for treating obstructive sleep apnea. He is Professor of Medicine and
Director  of  the David Read  Research Laboratory and Director of the Australian
Centre  for Advanced Medical Technology at the Sydney University Medical School.
He is Head of the Centre for Respiratory Failure and Sleep Disorders, as well as
a  thoracic  physician  at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital. He is also Academic
head  of  the  Pediatric  Sleep  Laboratory, New Children's Hospital, and Sydney
Children's  Hospital. Dr Sullivan is a Fellow of the Royal Australian College of
Physicians,  and  Fellow  of  the  Australian  Academy  of  Science. Dr Sullivan
continues to contribute to ResMed's innovation, product development and clinical
testing  programs.

HELMUT  TESCHLER,  MD,  is  Associate  Professor  and  Head of the Department of
Respiratory  Medicine  and  Sleep  Medicine,  Ruhrlandklinik,  Medical  Faculty,
University  of  Essen,  Germany.  He  is  a  Fellow  of  each  of  the following
Associations:  German  Pneumology  Society,  American Thoracic Society, European
Respiratory  Society,  and  American  Sleep  Disorders  Association.  He  is  an
internationally  recognized  researcher  in  respiratory  medicine  and  sleep
disorders  medicine.

- -15-


J  WOODROW  WEISS, MD, is Associate Professor of Medicine and Co-Chairman of the
Division  of  Sleep  Medicine  at  Harvard  Medical  School,  as  well as Chief,
Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston
MA.  Dr  Weiss  is  an  internationally recognized researcher in sleep disorders
medicine.

B  TUCKER  WOODSON,  MD  FACS,  is  an Associate Professor of Otolaryngology and
Communication  Sciences  at  the Medical College of Wisconsin. He is a Fellow of
the  American Academy of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery and the American
College  of  Surgeons.  Dr.  Woodson  is  the Director of the Medical College of
Wisconsin/Froedert  Memorial Lutheran Hospital Center for Sleep. He is active on
multiple  committees  for  the  American  Academy of Sleep Medicine and American
Academy  of  Otolaryngology.  His initial surgical training was with Dr. Fujita,
the  pioneer  of  uvulopalatopharyngoplasty  to  treat  obstructive sleep apnea.
Subsequently,  he  has  developed  a research and teaching interest in improving
surgical  management  of  sleep  apnea and developing better methods to evaluate
obstruction  of the upper airway during sleep. He is a strong proponent of nasal
CPAP  therapy.

Item  2     PROPERTIES

ResMed's  principal executive offices and US distribution facilities, consisting
of  approximately  144,000  square  feet, are located in Poway, California.  The
Company  entered  into  an agreement to purchase this property effective July 7,
2000  for  $17,200,000;  part  of  the  building  is  leased to other companies.
Primary  manufacturing operations are situated in Sydney, Australia in a 120,000
square  feet  facility  also  owned  by  the  Company.

Sales  and  warehousing  facilities  are  leased  in  Oxford,  England,
Moenchengladbach,  Germany,  Lyon, France, Trollhaettan, Sweden and Singapore as
well  as the company's previous executive offices in San Diego California, which
have  been  subleased  from  August  2000.

Item  3     LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS

The  company  is currently engaged in litigation relating to the enforcement and
defense  of  certain  of  its  patents.


In  January  1995,  the  Company filed a complaint in the United States District
Court  for the Southern District of California seeking monetary damages from and
injunctive  relief  against Respironics for alleged infringement of three ResMed
patents.  In  February  1995, Respironics filed a complaint in the United States
District  Court  for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania against the Company
seeking  a  declaratory  judgment  that  Respironics does not infringe claims of
these patents and that the Company's patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The
two actions were combined and are proceeding in the United States District Court
for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania.  In June 1996, the Company filed an
additional  complaint  against  Respironics  for infringement of a fourth ResMed
patent, and that complaint was consolidated with the earlier action.  As of this
date,  Respironics  has  brought  three  partial  summary  judgment  motions for
non-infringement  of  the  ResMed  patents;  the  Court  has granted each of the
motions.  In  December  1999,  in response to the Court's ruling on Respironics'
third  summary judgment motion, the parties jointly stipulated to a dismissal of
charges  of  infringement  under the fourth ResMed patent, with ResMed reserving
the  right to reassert the charges in the event of a favorable ruling on appeal.
It  is  ResMed's  intention to appeal the summary judgment rulings after a final
judgment  in  the consolidated litigation has been entered in the District Court
proceedings.

On  March  31,  2000,  the Company filed a lawsuit in the United States District
Court  for  the  Southern  District  of  California  against MPV Truma and Tiara
Medical  Systems,  Inc,  seeking  actual  and  exemplary  monetary  damages  and
injunctive  relief  for  the  unauthorized  and  infringing use of the Company's
trademarks,  trade  dress,  and  patents  related  to  its  Mirage  mask design.

- -16-


While  the  Company  is prosecuting the above actions, there can be no assurance
that  the  Company  will  be  successful.

In  May  1995,  Respironics  and its Australian distributor filed a Statement of
Claim  against  the  Company  and  its  CEO  in  the Federal Court of Australia,
alleging  unfair  trade practices.  The Statement of Claim asserts damage claims
for  lost  profits on sales in the aggregate amount of approximately $1,000,000.
While  the  Company is defending this action, there can be no assurance that the
Company  will  be  successful  or  that the Company will not be required to make
significant  payments  to the claimants.  The Company is incurring ongoing legal
costs  in  defending this action, as well as in the continuing litigation of its
patent  cases

Item  4     SUBMISSION  OF  MATTER  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY  HOLDERS

None.



                                     PART II


Item 5     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS



As  of  September  8,  2000,  there  were  over  5,000 beneficial holders of the
Company's  Common  Stock.  The  Company  does  not  intend  to  declare any cash
dividends  in  the  foreseeable  future.

- -17-







Item  6  SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA

The  following  table  summarizes  certain  selected consolidated financial data
for, and as of the end of, each  of the years in the five-year period ended June
30, 2000.  The data set  forth below  should be read  in  conjunction  with  the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  related  Notes  included elsewhere  in
this  Report.





- -18-


Item  7     MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS

Management's  discussion  and  analysis  of  financial  condition and results of
operations  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  selected financial data and
consolidated  financial  statements  and  notes,  included  herein.

The  Company  designs,  manufactures and markets equipment for the diagnosis and
treatment  of sleep disordered breathing conditions, including obstructive sleep
apnea.  The  Company's  net  revenues are generated from the sale of its various
flow generator devices, nasal mask systems, accessories and other products, and,
to  a  lesser  extent from royalties.  The Company receives other income through
interest  and  certain  Australian  government  grants.


The  Company  has invested significant resources in research and development and
product  enhancement.  Since 1989, the Company has developed several innovations
to  the  original CPAP device to increase patient comfort and to improve ease of
product  use.  The Company has been developing products for automated treatment,
titration  and  monitoring  of  OSA, such as the AutoSet  T flow generator.  The
Company's research and development expenses are subsidized in part by grants and
tax  incentives  from  the  Australian federal government.  The Company has also
received  grants  from  the  Australian  federal government to support marketing
efforts  to  increase Australian export sales, and for incorporation of computer
components  into  its  products.

The  Company's  income  tax rate is governed by the laws of the regions in which
the  Company's  income  is  recognized.  To  date,  a substantial portion of the
Company's income has been subject to income tax in Australia where the statutory
rate  is  36%.  During  fiscal  2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company's effective tax
rate  has  fluctuated  from  approximately  35%  to  approximately  34%.  These
fluctuations  have  resulted  from,  and  future effective tax rates will depend
upon,  numerous  factors,  including  the  amount  of  research  and development
expenditures  for  which a 125% Australian tax deduction is available, the level
of  non-deductible  expenses,  and  the  use  of  available  net  operating loss
carryforward  deductions  and  other  tax  credits  or benefits available to the
Company  under  applicable  tax  laws.

FISCAL  YEAR  ENDED  JUNE  30, 2000 COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR ENDED  JUNE 30, 1999

Net  revenues  -  Net  revenues  increased in fiscal 2000 to $115.6 million from
$88.6  million in fiscal 1999, an increase of $27 million or 30%.  This increase
was  primarily  attributable  to an increase in unit sales of the Company's flow
generators and accessories in the Americas where net revenues increased to $62.7
million  from  $51.0  million  and,  to  a  lesser  extent, in Europe, where net
revenues  increased  to  $40.5  million  from  $30.2 million.  Net revenues were
unfavorably impacted by a decline in European foreign exchange rates and changes
in  domestic  reimbursement  regulations  with respect to the Company's SULLIVAN
VPAP  II  ST  systems.

Gross profit - Gross profit increased in fiscal 2000 to $78.6 million from $59.2
million  in  fiscal  1999,  an  increase  of $19.4 million or 33%.  The increase
resulted  primarily  from increased unit sales during fiscal 2000.  Gross profit
as  a percentage of net revenues increased in fiscal 2000 to 68.0% from 66.8% in
1999.  The increase was due to improved manufacturing efficiencies, a decline in
the  Australian  Dollar  and increased sales of higher margin mask system units.

Selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses  -  Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  increased  in 2000 to $37.0 million from $27.4 million
for  1999, an increase of $9.6 million or 35%.  As a percentage of net revenues,
selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses increased in fiscal 2000 to 32%
from  31%  for fiscal 1999.  The gross increase in expenses was due primarily to
an  increase to 281 from 212 in the number of sales and administrative personnel
and  other  expenses  related  to  the  increase  in  the  Company's  sales.

- -19-


Research  and development expenses - Research and development expenses increased
in  fiscal 2000 to $8.5 million from $6.5 million in fiscal 1999, an increase of
$2.0  million or 30%.  As a percentage of net revenues, research and development
expenses  remained  static  in  fiscal  2000  at  7.4%.  The  dollar increase in
research  and  development expenses was due primarily to an increase in research
and  development  equipment,  personnel  and  external  consultancy  fees.

Other  income (expense) - Other income (expense) improved in fiscal 2000 to $1.0
million  from  a loss of $0.7 million for fiscal 1999, a change of $1.7 million.
This  improvement  was due primarily to reduced losses incurred in the Company's
foreign  currency  hedging  structures,  partially  offset by reduced government
grants.  Net  foreign  currency losses for fiscal 2000 were $182,000 compared to
net  foreign  currency  losses  of  $2.5  million  in  1999.

Income  Taxes  -  The  Company's  effective  income  tax  rate  for  fiscal 2000
increased to approximately 34.9% from approximately 34.5% for fiscal 1999.  This
increase  was  primarily  due  to the high relative taxes incurred in France and
Germany.  These  higher  tax  rates were partially offset by additional research
and  development  expenses  in  Australia  for which the Company received a 125%
deduction  for  tax  purposes.

FISCAL  YEAR  ENDED  JUNE  30, 1999 COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 , 1998

Net Revenues - Net revenues increased in fiscal 1999 to $88.6 million from $66.5
million  in fiscal 1998, an increase of $22.1 million or 33%.  This increase was
primarily  attributable  to  an  increase  in  unit  sales of the Company's flow
generators and accessories in the Americas where net revenues increased to $51.0
million  from  $34.3  million  and,  to  a  lesser  extent, in Europe, where net
revenues  increased  to  $30.2  million  from  $23.3 million.  Net revenues also
improved due to a shift to higher-priced bilevel based products such as SULLIVAN
VPAP  II  ST  and  increased  sales  of  patient  mask  systems.



Gross Profit - Gross profit increased in fiscal 1999 to $59.2 million from $43.5
million  in  fiscal  1998,  an  increase  of $15.7 million or 36%.  The increase
resulted  primarily  from increased unit sales during fiscal 1999.  Gross profit
as  a percentage of net revenues increased in fiscal 1999 to 66.8% from 65.3% in
1998.  The increase was primarily due to improved manufacturing efficiencies and
increased  sales  of  higher  margin  bilevel  units.

Selling,  General  and  Administrative  Expenses  -  Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  increased  in 1999 to $27.4 million from $21.1 million
for  1998, an increase of $6.3 million or 30%.  As a percentage of net revenues,
selling,  general  and administrative expenses decreased in fiscal 1999 to 30.9%
from 31.7% for fiscal 1998.  The gross increase in expenses was due primarily to
an  increase to 212 from 158 in the number of sales and administrative personnel
and  other  expenses  related  to  the  increase  in  the  Company's  sales.

Research  and Development Expenses - Research and development expenses increased
in  fiscal 1999 to $6.5 million from $5.0 million in fiscal 1998, an increase of
$1.5  million or 31%.  As a percentage of net revenues, research and development
expenses  in  fiscal  1999 marginally declined to 7.4% from 7.5% in fiscal 1998.
The dollar increase in research and development expenses was due primarily to an
increase  in  research  and  development  equipment,  personnel  and  external
consultancy  fees.

- -20-


Other  Income  (expense)  -  Other income (expense) improved in fiscal 1999 to a
loss  of  $0.7  million from a loss of $1.3 million for fiscal 1998, a change of
$0.6  million.  This improvement was due primarily to reduced losses incurred in
the  Company's  foreign currency hedging structures, partially offset by reduced
license  fee  income.  Foreign currency losses for fiscal 1999 were $2.5 million
compared  to  net  foreign  currency  losses  of  $4.0  million  in  1998.

Income Taxes - The Company's effective income tax rate for fiscal 1999 increased
to  approximately 34.5% from approximately 34.1% for fiscal 1998.  This increase
was  primarily  due  to  the high relative taxes incurred in France and Germany.
These  higher  tax  rates  were  partially  offset  by  research and development
expenses  in  Australia  for which the Company received a 125% deduction for tax
purposes.

YEAR  2000

The  Company  incurred  no significant adverse issues with respect to either its
information  systems  or  products  from  the  Year  2000  date  change.

LIQUIDITY  AND  CAPITAL  RESOURCES

As of June 30, 2000 and June 30, 1999, the Company had cash and cash equivalents
and  marketable securities available for sale of approximately $22.0 million and
$16.7  million,  respectively.  The Company's working capital approximated $47.6
million  and  $32.5  million,  respectively,  at  June  30,  2000 and 1999.  The
increase in working capital balances primarily reflects reduced capital spending
associated with completion of the Company's Australian manufacturing facility in
1999  and  increased  accounts receivable and inventory balances associated with
growth  in  the  Company's  sales  activity.

The  Company  has  financed its operations and capital expenditures through cash
generated  from  operations  and,  to  a  lesser extent, through sales of common
stock.  During  the  fiscal  years  ended  June 30, 2000 and 1999, the Company's
operations  generated  cash  of  approximately  $20.3 million and $18.2 million,
respectively,  primarily  as  a  result  of continued increases in net revenues,
offset  in  part by increases in accounts receivable, inventory and prepayments.
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities available for sale increased
to  $22.0  million  at  June  30,  2000  from $16.7 million at June 30, 1999, an
increase  of  $5.3  million.  During  fiscal  2000  and 1999, approximately $6.4
million  and  $2.1  million  of cash was received from the issue of common stock
upon  exercise  of  common  stock  options.

The  Company's  investing  activities  (excluding  the  purchases  and  sales of
marketable  securities)  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  June  30, 2000 and 1999
aggregated  $20.4  million  and $24.5 million, respectively. The majority of the
fiscal 2000 investing activities were for the purchase of production tooling and
equipment,  office  furniture,  research  and  development  equipment  and costs
associated  with the continuing installation of its Oracle applications computer
system.  In  addition,  the  Company  paid  $4.6  million  associated  with  the
construction  of  the  new  US  facility  in Poway, California.  As a result the
Company's  June  30,  2000  balance  sheet reflects an increase in net property,
plant  and equipment to approximately $36.6 million at June 30, 2000, from $29.3
million  at  June  30,  1999,  an  increase  of approximately $7.3 million.  The
Company  anticipates  spending  approximately  a  further  $1.0  million for the
ongoing  implementation  of  its  Oracle  computer  system  over the next twelve
months.  These  payments are to be funded through cash flows from operations and
existing  cash  resources.

- -21-


The results of the Company's international operations are affected by changes in
exchange  rates  between  currencies.  Changes  in exchange rates may negatively
affect  the  Company's  consolidated  net  revenue and gross profit margins from
international  operations.  The  Company  has  a  substantial  exposure  to
fluctuations  in  the  Australian  dollar  with respect to its manufacturing and
research  activities which is managed through foreign currency option contracts.

The  Company  expects  to  satisfy  all of its short-term liquidity requirements
through  a combination of cash on hand, cash generated from operations and a $20
million  revolving  credit  facility  with  he  Union  Bank  of  California.

NEW  ACCOUNTING  PRONOUNCEMENTS

SFAS  No  133,  'Accounting  for  Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities'
(SFAS  133), and SFAS No 137, 'Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities'  -  Deferral  of  the  Effective  Date  of FASB Statement No 133 (an
amendment  of  FASB  Statement  No 133)' were issued by the Financial Accounting
Standards  Board  in June 1998 and June 1999, respectively and are effective for
the  Company's  quarter  ending  September  30, 2000.  SFAS 133 standardizes the
accounting  for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts.  Under the standard, entities are required to carry
all derivative instruments in the statement of financial position at fair value.
The  accounting  for  changes  in  the  fair  value  (ie,  gains or losses) of a
derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as
part  of  a  hedging  relationship and, if so, on the reason for holding it.  If
certain  conditions  are  met,  entities  may  elect  to  designate a derivative
instrument  as  a  hedge  of exposures to changes in fair values, cash flows, or
foreign  currencies.  If  the hedged exposure is a fair value exposure, the gain
or  loss on the derivative instrument is recognized in earnings in the period of
change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable
to  the  risk being hedged.  If the hedged exposure is a cash flow exposure, the
effective  portion  of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported
initially  as  a  component of other comprehensive income (outside earnings) and
subsequently  reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects
earnings.  Any  amounts  excluded  from the assessment of hedge effectiveness as
well  as  the  ineffective  portion  of the gain or loss is reported in earnings
immediately.   Accounting   for  foreign  currency  hedges  is  similar  to  the
accounting for fair value and cash flow hedges.  If the derivative instrument is
not  designated  as  a  hedge, the gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the
period  of  change.

The  Company  believes  that,  due  to   the  restrictive  definition  of  hedge
effectiveness  contained  in Statement 133, the Company's hedging contracts will
not  have  hedge  effectiveness  and  will  therefore  be  marked to market with
resulting  gains or losses being recognized in earnings in the period of change.
This  is  consistent  with the company's current accounting policy and therefore
the  Company  does  not  expect  adoption  of Statement 133 will have a material
impact  on  the  Company's  financial  position  or  results  of  operation.

In  December  1999,  the Securities and Exchange Commission ('SEC') issued Staff
Accounting  Bulletin  No  101  ('SAB  101'),  'Revenue  Recognition in Financial
Statements'.  The company will be required to adopt SAB 101 in the first quarter
of  fiscal  2001.  SAB101  requires,  among other things, that license and other
up-front  fees be recognized over the term of the agreement, unless the fees are
in  exchange  for  products  delivered  or services performed that represent the
culmination of a separate earnings process.  The Company does not expect this to
have  a  material  impact  on  the  Company's  financial  position or results of
operation.

In  March  2000,  the Financial Accounting Standards Boards ('FASB') issued FASB
Interpretation  No. 44 ('FIN 44'), Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving
Stock  Compensation  -  an Interpretation of Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No.  25.  FIN  44  is  effective  July 1, 2000.  The Company does not expect the
application of FIN 44 to have a significant effect on its consolidated financial
statements.

- -22-


Item  7A  QUANTITATIVE  AND  QUALITATIVE  DISCLOSURES  ABOUT  MARKET  RISK

Foreign  Currency  Market  Risk

The  Company's  functional  currency  is  the  US  dollar  although  the Company
transacts  business  in  various  foreign currencies including a number of major
European  currencies  as  well  as  the  Australian  dollar.   The  Company  has
significant  foreign currency exposure through both its Australian manufacturing
activities  and  international  sales  operations.

The  Company  has established a foreign currency hedging program using purchased
currency   options  to  hedge  foreign-currency-denominated  financial   assets,
liabilities  and manufacturing expenditure.  The goal of this hedging program is
to economically guarantee or lock in the exchange rates on the Company's foreign
currency  exposures denominated in Euro's and the Australian dollar.  Under this
program,  increases  or  decreases in the Company's foreign-currency-denominated
financial  assets,  liabilities,  and  firm  commitments are partially offset by
gains  and  losses  on  the  hedging  instruments.

The  Company  does  not  use  foreign  currency  forward  exchange  contracts or
purchased  currency  options  for  trading  purposes.

The  table  below  provides  information  about  the Company's foreign  currency
derivative  financial  instruments, by  functional currency  and  presents  such
information  in  US  dollar  equivalents.  The   table  summarizes   information
on   instruments  and  transactions  that  are  sensitive  to  foreign  currency
exchange rates, including  foreign currency call options  held at June 30, 2000.
The  table  presents  the  notional  amounts and weighted average exchange rates
by  expected  (contractual)  maturity  dates  for the Company's foreign currency
derivative financial instruments.  These  notional amounts generally are used to
calculate payments  to  be  exchanged  under  the  options  contracts.



Interest  Rate  Risk

The  Company  is  exposed  to  risk  associated  with  changes in interest rates
affecting  the  return  on  investments.

At  June  30,  2000,  the  Company  maintained  a  portion  of its cash and cash
equivalents in financial instruments with original maturities of three months or
less.  The  Company  maintained  a  short  term  investment portfolio containing
financial  instruments in which the majority have original maturities of greater
than  three  months  but  less than twelve months.  These financial instruments,
principally comprised of corporate obligations are subject to interest rate risk
and  will decline in value if interest rates increase.  A hypothetical 100 basis
point  change  in  interest  rates during the twelve months ended June 30, 2000,
would  have resulted in approximately $0.2 million change in pretax income.  The
Company  has  not  used  derivative  financial  instruments  in  its  investment
portfolio.

- -23-


FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS

From  time  to time, the Company may publish forward-looking statements relating
to  such  matters  as  anticipated  financial  performance,  business prospects,
technological  developments,  new products, research and development activities,
patent and other litigation and similar matters.  There are a variety of factors
that  could  cause  the  Company's  actual  results  and  experience  to  differ
materially  from  the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the
Company's  forward-looking  statements.  The  risks  and  uncertainties that may
affect  the  Company's  business,  financial  condition or results of operations
include  the  following:

The  market  for  products  designed to treat sleep disordered breathing related
respiratory  conditions  is  characterized  by frequent product improvements and
evolving technology.  The development of new or innovative products by others or
the  discovery of alternative treatments for such conditions could result in the
Company's  products  becoming  obsolete  or  noncompetitive,  which would have a
material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  business, financial condition and
results  of  operations.

The  market  for the Company's products is also highly competitive.  The failure
of  the Company to meet the prices offered by its competitors, or offer products
which  either  contain features similar to or more desirable than those products
offered  by  its  competitors  or which are perceived as unreliable by consumers
could  have  a  material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and
results  of  operations  of the Company.  Most of the Company's competitors have
greater  financial,  research,  manufacturing  and  marketing resources than the
Company.  In  addition,  some of the Company's competitors sell additional lines
of  products,  and  therefore  can bundle products to offer higher discounts, or
offer  rebates or other incentive programs to gain a competitive advantage.  The
Company's  competitors  may  also  employ  litigation  to  gain  a  competitive
advantage.  The  Company's  inability to compete effectively against existing or
future  competitors  would  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on the Company's
business,  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

The  Company's  operating  results  have,  from  time  to  time, fluctuated on a
quarterly basis and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future.  These
fluctuations  may  result  from  the  absence  of  a  backlog  of orders for the
Company's  products,  the  introduction  of  new  products by the Company or its
competitors,  the  geographic mix of product sales, the success of the Company's
marketing  efforts  in new regions, changes in third-party reimbursement, timing
of  regulatory  action,  timing of orders by distributors, expenditures incurred
for  research  and  development,  competitive  pricing  in  different  regions,
seasonality,  the  cost and effect of promotional and marketing programs and the
effect of foreign currency transaction gains or losses, among other factors,  In
addition,  the  Company's  results  of operations could be adversely affected by
changes  in  tax laws in the various countries in which the Company conducts its
operations.

- -24-


The  Company's  success is dependent upon the ability of the Company's customers
to  obtain  adequate  reimbursement  from  third-party payors for purchasing the
Company's products.  Third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine
that  the  prescribed device has not received appropriate United States Food and
Drug  Administration ("FDA") or other governmental regulatory clearances, is not
used  in  accordance  with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the
payor, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate.  Third-party payors are
increasingly  challenging  the prices charged for medical products and services.
The  cost  containment measures that health care providers are instituting could
have  an  adverse  effect  on the Company's ability to sell its products and may
have  a  material  adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition
and  results of operations.  In some markets, such as Spain, France and Germany,
government  reimbursement  is  currently available for purchase or rental of the
Company's  products, subject to constraints such as price controls or unit sales
limitations.  In  Australia  and  some  other foreign markets there is currently
limited  or  no  reimbursement for devices that treat sleep disordered breathing
related  respiratory  conditions.

A  substantial  portion  of  the  Company's  net revenue is generated from sales
outside  North  America.  The  Company  expects that such sales will continue to
account  for  a significant portion of the Company's net revenues in the future.
The  Company's  sales  outside  of North America are subject to certain inherent
risks  of  global operations, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates,
tariffs,  import licenses, trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies and
foreign  medical  device manufacturing regulations.  The Company has had foreign
currency  transaction gains and losses in recent periods.  A significant fall in
the  value  of the United States dollar against certain international currencies
could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the Company's business, financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.

Other  factors  which  could  potentially  have a material adverse effect on the
Company's  business,  results  of operations or financial conditions include the
costs  and  other  effects  of  legal  and administrative cases and proceedings,
settlements  and  investigations,  claims  and  changes  in  those  items,  and
developments  or  assertions  by or against the Company relating to intellectual
property  rights  and  intellectual  property  licenses.

The  information  contained  in this section is not intended to be an exhaustive
description of the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company's business or
in  its  strategic  plans.  Please  see  Item  1  'Business'  and Item 3- 'Legal
Proceedings.'.

Item  8     CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA



b)     Supplementary  Data

Quarterly  Financial  Information  (unaudited)





- -25-


(1)Per  share amounts  for each quarter  are computed independently, and, due to
   the computation formula, the sum of the four quarters may not equal the year.


Item  9     CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE

None


                                    PART III


Item  10     DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

Incorporated  by  reference  to  Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its
November  6,  2000  meeting  of  stockholders,  which  will  be  filed  with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  after  June  30, 2000.


Item  11     EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

Incorporated  by  reference  to  Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its
November  6,  2000  meeting  of  stockholders,  which  will  be  filed  with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  after  June  30, 2000.


Item  12     SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated  by  reference  to  Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its
November  6,  2000  meeting  of  stockholders,  which  will  be  filed  with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  within  120  days  after  June  30, 2000.


Item  13     CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS

Dr  Colin  Sullivan,  a member of the Company's Medical Advisory Board, provides
consulting  services  to  the  Company  pursuant  to a Consulting Agreement that
terminates  on  December  31,  2000  (subject  to  extension  for  an additional
five-year  term)  for  which  he receives annual payments of $189,000 per annum.
The  Company  also  reimburses  Dr  Sullivan  for  his out-of-pocket expenses in
performing such consulting services. The Company has also agreed to pay $126,000
to  Dr  Sullivan  for  a  period  of  24 months following the termination of his
consulting  relationship  with  the Company.  Total payments to Dr Sullivan were
$189,000,  $186,000  and  $278,000 for the Company's fiscal years ended June 30,
2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively.

- -26-





                                     PART IV

Item  14     EXHIBITS,  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS
             ON  FORM  8-K


a)     The  following  documents  are  filed  as  part  of  this  report:

 1.1   Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  Schedule.
       The  consolidated   financial  statements  and  schedule  of  the Company
       and   its  consolidated  subsidiaries   are  set  forth  in the "Index to
       Consolidated Financial Statements" under  Item  8  of  this  report.

 3.0   Exhibits.  The  following  exhibits  are  filed as a part of this report:

 3.1   Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*

 3.2   By-laws  of  Registrant*

 4.1   Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*

 4.2   Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997**

10.1   1995  Stock  Option  Plan*

10.2   1997  Equity  Participation  Plan***

10.3   Licensing Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed Limited
       dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*

10.4   Consulting  Agreement  between  Colin  Sullivan  and  ResMed  Limited
       effective  from  1  January  1998****

10.5   Loan  Agreement  between  the  Australian  Trade  Commission and ResMed
       Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*

10.6   Lease  for  10121  Carroll  Canyon  Road, San Diego 92131-1109, USA****

11.1   Computation  of  Earnings  per  Common  Share

21.1   Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant

23.1   Independent  Auditors'  Consent  and  Report  on  Schedule

27.1   Financial  Data  Schedule

- --------------------
*      Incorporated  by reference  to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
       Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.

**     Incorporated  by reference from the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K (File
       No.  0-26038).

***    Incorporated  by  reference  from  the Registrant's 1997  Proxy Statement
       (File  No.  0-26038).

****   Incorporated  by  reference  from the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K
       dated  June  30,  1998  (File  No.  0-26038)

b)     Report  on  Form  8-K
       None.

- -27-


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc:


We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ResMed Inc. and
subsidiaries  as  of  June  30,  2000  and  1999,  and  the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in  the  three-year  period  ended  June 30, 2000.  These consolidated financial
statements  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements  based  on  our  audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in  the  United  States  of  America.  Those  standards require that we plan and
perform  the  audit  to  obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made  by  management,  as well as evaluating the overall
financial  statement  presentation.  We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable  basis  for  our  opinion.

In  our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the financial position of ResMed Inc. and
subsidiaries  as  of June 30, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their operations
and  their  cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June
30,  2000,  in  conformity  with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United  States  of  America.




                                  /s/ KPMG LLP

                                    KPMG LLP
                              San Diego, California
                                 August 4, 2000
- -F1-



See  accompanying  notes  to  consolidated  financial  statements.

- -F2-




See  accompanying  notes  to  consolidated  financial  statements.

- -F3-























See  accompanying  notes  to  consolidated  financial  statements.


- -F4-

                                    RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                              YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 2000, 1999 AND 1998
                                           (IN THOUSANDS)



See  accompanying  notes  to  consolidated  financial  statements.
- -F5-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999


1.     ORGANIZATION  AND  BASIS  OF  PRESENTATION

ResMed  Inc  (the Company),  is  a  Delaware corporation formed in March 1994 as
a  holding  company  for  ResMed  Holdings  Ltd  (RHL),  a  company  resident in
Australia.  ResMed  designs, manufactures and markets devices for the evaluation
and  treatment of sleep disordered breathing, primarily obstructive sleep apnea.
The  Company's  corporate  offices  are  based in San Diego, California with its
principal  manufacturing operation located in Australia.  Other distribution and
sales  sites  are  located  in  the United States, United Kingdom, Singapore and
Europe.


2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES

(a)     Basis  of  Consolidation

The    consolidated    financial  statements    include   the  accounts  of  the
Company  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries.  All  significant   intercompany
transactions  and  balances  have  been  eliminated  in  consolidation.

(b)     Revenue  Recognition

Revenue  on  product  sales  is  recorded  at  the  time  of  shipment.  Royalty
revenue  from  license  agreements  is  recorded  when  earned.  Service revenue
received  in  advance  from  service  contracts  is  initially  capitalized  and
progressively  recognized  as  revenue  over  the  life of the service contract.
Revenue  from  sale of marketing or distribution rights is initially capitalized
and  progressively  recognized  as  revenue  over  the  life  of  the  contract.


(c)     Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents

Cash   equivalents   include   certificates   of   deposit,  commercial   paper,
and  other  highly  liquid  investments  are  stated at cost, which approximates
market.  Investments  with original maturities of 90 days or less are considered
to  be  cash  equivalents  for  purposes  of the consolidated statements of cash
flows.

(d)     Inventories

Inventories  are   stated  at   the   lower   of  cost  or market,    determined
principally  by  the  first-in,  first-out  method.

(e)     Property,  Plant  and  Equipment

Property,  plant  and  equipment  is  recorded  at cost.  Depreciation   expense
is   computed   using  the straight-line   method  over   the  estimated  useful
lives  of the assets, generally two to ten years.  Straight-line and accelerated
methods  of depreciation are used for tax purposes.  Maintenance and repairs are
charged  to  expense  as  incurred.

- -F6-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999

2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

(f)     Patents

The   registration   costs  for  new  patents  are  capitalized  and   amortized
over  the  estimated  useful  life  of the patent, generally five years.  In the
event  of  a  patent  being  superseded,  the  unamortized costs are written off
immediately.

(g)     Goodwill

Goodwill    arising    from    business  acquisitions   is   amortized    on   a
straight-line  basis  over  periods ranging from three to 15 years.  The Company
carries  goodwill  at cost net of accumulated amortization.  The Company reviews
its  goodwill  carrying  value  when events indicate that an impairment may have
occurred  in  goodwill.  If,  based  on  the undiscounted cash flows, management
determines  goodwill  is  not  recoverable,  goodwill  is  written  down  to its
discounted  cash  flow  value  and  the  amortization  period  is  re-assessed.

During  fiscal   2000    the   Company   acquired   the  business and associated
assets  of Einar Egnell AB, its Swedish distributor for $576,000.  The excess of
the  purchase  price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired
of  $229,000 has been recorded as goodwill.  In 1999 the Company paid $2,024,000
as  a  final  deferred  goodwill  payment  on the 1996 acquisition of its German
distributor  (see  note  14).

Amortization    expense  of   goodwill  was   $690,000,   $633,000  and $483,000
for  the  years  ended  June  30,  2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively.

(h)     Government  Grants

Government  grants  revenue  is  recognized  when  earned.   Grants  have   been
obtained  by  the  Company from the Australian Federal Government to support the
continued  development  of  the  Company's  proprietary positive airway pressure
technology  and  to  assist  development  of  export  markets.  Grants have been
recognized  in the amount of $279,000, $833,000 and $611,000 for the years ended
June  30,  2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively.

(i)     Foreign  Currency

The   consolidated   financial    statements   of   the    Company's    non-U.S.
subsidiaries  are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.
Assets  and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional currencies are
other  than  the  U.S.  dollar  are  translated  at year end exchange rates, and
revenue  and  expense  transactions are translated at average exchange rates for
the  year.  Cumulative  translation  adjustments  are  recognized  as  part  of
comprehensive  income,  as described in Note 15, and are included in accumulated
other  comprehensive  loss  in the consolidated balance sheet until such time as
the  subsidiary  is  sold  or substantially or completely liquidated.  Gains and
losses on transactions, denominated in other than the functional currency of the
entity,  are  reflected  in  operations.

(j)     Research  and  Development

All  research  and  development  costs  are  expensed  in  the  period incurred.

- -F7-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999

2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

(k)     Earnings  Per  Share

The  weighted  average  shares  used  to calculate basic earnings per share were
30,153,000,  29,416,000,  and 29,000,000 for the years ended June 30, 2000, 1999
and  1998,  respectively.  The  difference  between basic earnings per share and
diluted  earnings  per  share is attributable to the impact of outstanding stock
options  during  the  periods  presented.  Stock  options  had  the  effect  of
increasing  the  number of shares used in the calculation (by application of the
treasury stock method) by 2,150,000, 1,652,000 and 1,044,000 for the years ended
June  30,  2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively.

(l)     Financial  Instruments

The  carrying  value  of  financial  instruments,  such   as  of  cash  and cash
equivalents,  marketable  securities  - available for sale, accounts receivable,
government  grants  receivable and accounts payable approximate their fair value
because  of  their  short  term  nature.  Foreign  currency option contracts are
marked  to  market and therefore reflect their fair value.  The Company does not
hold  or  issue  financial  instruments  for  trading  purposes.

The  fair  value  of financial instruments is defined as the amount at which the
instrument  could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties.

(m)     Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management

The  Company  enters  into  various   types of  foreign   exchange  contracts in
managing  its  foreign exchange risk, including derivative financial instruments
encompassing  forward  exchange  contracts  and  foreign  currency  options.

The  purpose  of  the  Company's  foreign   currency  hedging  activities  is to
protect  the Company from adverse exchange rate fluctuations with respect to net
cash  movements  resulting  from  the sales of products to foreign customers and
Australian  manufacturing  activities.  The Company enters into foreign currency
option  contracts to hedge anticipated sales and manufacturing costs denominated
in principally Australian dollars and Euros.  The terms of such foreign currency
option  contracts  generally  do  not  exceed  three  years.

Unrealized  gains  or losses are recognized as  incurred   in   the consolidated
balance  sheets  as  either  other  assets or other liabilities and are recorded
within  other  income,  net  on the Company's consolidated statements of income.
Unrealized  gains  and  losses  on  currency derivatives are determined based on
dealer  quoted  prices.

The    Company   is   exposed  to   credit-related   losses  in  the   event  of
non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments.  The credit exposure
of  foreign  exchange options at June 30, 2000 was $901,000 which represents the
positive  fair  value  of  options  held  by  the  Company.

- -F8-


                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999
2.     SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)

(m)     Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Management  (continued)

The  Company   held   foreign   currency  option contracts with notional amounts
totaling $171,530,000 and $62,460,000 at June 30, 2000 and 1999, respectively to
hedge  foreign  currency items. These contracts mature at various dates prior to
June  2002.

(n)     Income  Taxes

The  Company   accounts   for  income  taxes  under  the  asset  and   liability
method.  Deferred  tax  assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences  attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial  statement
carrying  amounts  of  existing  assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected  to  apply  to  taxable  income  in  the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax
assets  and  liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period  that  includes  the  enactment  date.

(o)     Marketable  Securities

Management    determines    the     appropriate    classification    of      its
investments  in  debt  and  equity  securities  at  the  time  of  purchase  and
re-evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.  Debt securities for
which  the  Company  does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity are
classified  as available for sale.  Securities available for sale are carried at
fair  value,  with  the  unrealized  gains  and  losses, net of tax, reported in
accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  (loss).

At    June   30,  2000    and    1999,  the   Company's    investments  in  debt
securities  were  classified  on  the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as
marketable  securities  available  for  sale.  These investments are diversified
among high credit quality securities in accordance with the Company's investment
policy.

The amortized cost of debt securities classified as available-for-sale
is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity.
Such  amortization and interest are included in interest income.  Realized gains
and losses are included in other income or expense.  The cost of securities sold
is  based  on  the  specific  identification  method.

(p)     Warranty

Estimated   future   warranty  obligations    related  to  certain  products are
provided  by charges to operations in the period in which the related revenue is
recognized.

(q)     Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets

The   Company   periodically    evaluates   the   carrying  value of long-lived
assets  to  be  held and used, including certain identifiable intangible assets,
when  events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
not be recovered.  Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison  of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected
to be generated by the asset.  If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment  to  be  recognized  is  measured by the amount by which the carrying
amount of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets.  Assets to be disposed
of  are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to
sell.

- -F9-


                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999

3.     MARKETABLE  SECURITIES

The   estimated  fair   value  of marketable securities available for sale as of
June  30,  2000  and  1999,  was  $3,713,000  and  $5,626,000, respectively. The
estimated  fair  value  of  each investment approximates the amortized cost, and
therefore,  there are no unrealized gains or losses as of June 30, 2000 or 1999.

Expected  maturities   may  differ   from  contractual  maturities  because  the
issuers  of  the  securities  may  have  the right to prepay obligations without
prepayment  penalties.

4.     INVENTORIES



5.     PROPERTY,  PLANT  AND  EQUIPMENT


- -F10-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999

6.     ACCRUED  EXPENSES



7.     STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

Stock  Options  -  The  Company  has   granted   stock   options   to personnel,
including  officers  and  directors in accordance with both the 1995 Option Plan
and  the 1997 Equity Participation Plan.  These options have expiration dates of
ten years from the date of grant and vest over three years.  The Company granted
these options with the exercise price equal to the market value as determined at
the  date  of  grant.

In August 1997 as part of the introduction of the 1997 Equity Participation
Plan,  the  Company  cancelled  43,880  options,  being  all  non-issued options
remaining  under  the  1995  Option  Plan.


- -F11-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999

7.     STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)

The  total  number   of  shares of  Common  Stock  authorized  for issuance upon
exercise  of options and other awards, or upon vesting of restricted or deferred
stock  awards,  under  the  1997 Plan was initially established at 1,000,000 and
increases  at  the beginning of each fiscal year, commencing on July 1, 1998, by
an  amount  equal  to  4% of the outstanding Common Stock on the last day of the
preceding  fiscal  year.  The  maximum number of shares of Common Stock issuable
upon  exercise  of incentive stock options granted under the 1997 Plan, however,
cannot exceed 8,000,000.  Furthermore, the maximum number of shares which may be
subject  to  options,  rights or other awards granted under the 1997 Plan to any
individual  in  any  calendar  year  cannot  exceed  300,000.






The  fair  value  of  each stock option grant was estimated on the date of grant
using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model with the following assumptions:
weighted  average  risk-free interest rates of 6.5% for fiscal 2000 and 5.8% for
fiscals  1999  and 1998, respectively; no dividend yield; expected lives of four
years;  and  volatility  of  61%  for  2000,  55%  for  1999  and  34% for 1998,
respectively.

- -F12-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999

7.     STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY  (CONTINUED)

Preferred  Stock  -  In  April  1997 the board of directors authorized 2,000,000
shares  of  $0.01  par  value  preferred  stock.  No  such shares were issued or
outstanding  at  June  30,  2000.

     Stock  Purchase  Rights  - In April 1997, the Company implemented a plan to
protect stockholders' rights in the event of a proposed takeover of the Company.
Under the plan, each share of the Company's outstanding common stock carries one
right  to  purchase Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Right").
The  Right  enables  the holder, under certain circumstances, to purchase common
stock  of  the  Company or of the acquiring person at a substantially discounted
price ten days after a person or group publicly announces it has acquired or has
tendered  an  offer  for  15% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock.
The  Rights  are  redeemable  at  $0.01  per  Right  and  expire  in  2007.

     Common  Stock  -  During  the  year,  the  Board  of  Directors  declared a
two-for-one  split  of  the  Company's  common  stock, effective March 31, 2000.
Stockholders'  equity  has  been  restated  for  all  periods  presented to give
retroactive  recognition  to  the  stock  split by reclassifying from additional
paid-in  capital  to  common  stock, the par value of the additional shares as a
result  of  the  stock  split.

8.     OTHER,  NET



     In  March  1998,  the Company granted to a third party licenses to three of
the  Company's  patents for a non refundable payment of $1,250,000.  The license
agreement  will  allow  the  third  party  to manufacture and distribute certain
products  featuring the Company's patented technology in the US homecare market.
Additionally,  the  Company  will  earn  royalties  on  products  manufactured.

9.     INCOME  TAXES


- -F13-








                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999
9.     INCOME  TAXES  (CONTINUED)









- -F14-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999



The  valuation  allowance at June 30, 2000  and  1999, primarily  relates  to  a
provision   for  uncertainty  as  to  the  utilization  of  net  operating  loss
carryforwards.  The  net  change  in  the valuation allowance was an increase of
$22,000  for  the  year  ended  June  30,  2000, in comparison to an increase of
$48,000  and a decrease of $635,000, for the years ended June 30, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.  The measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities at June 30
of  each  year,  reflect  foreign  currency  translation adjustments, changes in
enacted  tax  rates and changes in temporary differences.  Income taxes in 2000,
1999  and  1998 were reduced by $4,000, $0 and $22,000, respectively through the
utilization  of  net  operating  loss  carryforwards.

At  June  30, 2000,  the  net operating  loss carryforwards relate to Singapore,
Sweden  and  Malaysia.

10.     EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLANS

ResMed   contributes  to  a  number of employee retirement plans for the benefit
of  its  employees.  These  plans  are  detailed  as  follows:

Australia  -  ResMed  contributes  to  defined  contribution  pension  plans for
each  employee  resident in Australia.  All Australian employees after serving a
qualifying  period, are entitled to benefits on retirement, disability or death.
Employees  may  contribute additional funds to the plans.  ResMed contributes to
the  plans at the rate of 7% of the salaries of all Australian employees.  Total
Company  contributions  to the plans for the years ended June 30, 2000, 1999 and
1998  were  $632,000,  $457,000  and  $362,000,  respectively.

United  Kingdom  -  ResMed  contributes  to a defined contribution plan for each
permanent  United  Kingdom employee.  All employees, after serving a three month
qualifying  period,  are entitled to benefit on retirement, disability or death.
Employees  may  contribute  additional funds to the plan.  ResMed contributes to
the plans at the rate of 3% of the salaries.  Total Company contributions to the
plan  were $8,000, $8,000 and $5,000 in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998 respectively.

- -F15-


                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999

10.     EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  PLANS  (CONTINUED)

United  States  -  The  Company  sponsors  a  defined  contribution pension plan
available  to  substantially  all  domestic employees.  Company contributions to
this plan are based on a percentage of employee contributions to a maximum of 3%
of  employee  salaries.  The  cost  of  this  plan  to the Company was $123,000,
$96,000  and  $54,000  in  fiscal  2000,  1999  and  1998  respectively.

11.     SEGMENT  INFORMATION


ResMed   operates  solely  in  the  sleep  disordered  breathing  sector  of the
respiratory  medicine  industry.  The Company therefore believes that, given the
single  market  focus of its operations and the inter dependence of its products
that  ResMed  operates  as  a  single  operating  segment.  The Company assesses
performance  and  allocates resources on the basis of a single operating entity.


- -F16-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999

11.     SEGMENT  INFORMATION  (CONTINUED)

Net  revenues  from  external  customers   is   based   on  the  location of the
customer.  Long  lived  assets  of geographic areas are those assets used in the
Company's  operations  in  each geographical area and excludes patents, deferred
tax  assets  and  goodwill.

12.     RELATED  PARTY  TRANSACTIONS

For the years ended June 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998, consulting service fees in the
amount  of  $189,000,  $186,000 and $278,000, were paid to Dr. Colin Sullivan, a
shareholder.  Dr.  Sullivan provides consulting services to the Company pursuant
to  a  consulting  agreement  that  terminates  on December 31, 2000 (subject to
extension  for  an  additional  five  year  term)  for  which he receives annual
payments  of  $189,000.  The  Company  also  reimburses  Dr.  Sullivan  for  his
out-of-pocket  expenses  in  performing  such  consulting  services.

The  Company  has also agreed to pay to Dr. Sullivan $126,000 for a period of 24
months following the termination of his consulting relationship with the Company
in  exchange  for  his  agreement  not  to  compete with the Company during this
period.

13.     COMMITMENTS



Rent expenses under operating leases for the years ended June 30, 2000, 1999 and
1998  were  approximately  $744,000,  $789,000  and  $607,000,  respectively.

14.     BUSINESS  ACQUISITION

On  January 31, 2000 the Company's fully owned Swedish Subsidiary, ResMed Sweden
AB,  acquired the business and associated assets of Einar Egnell AB, its Swedish
distributor  for  $576,000 in cash.  The acquisition has been accounted for as a
purchase and accordingly, the results of operations of the Einar Egnell business
have  been  included  in  the  company's  consolidated financial statements from
January  31,  2000.  The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the
net  identifiable  assets acquired of $229,000 has been recorded as goodwill and
is  being  amortized  on  a  straight  line  basis  over  5  years.

In fiscal 1999, the Company paid $2,024,000 as a final deferred goodwill payment
on  the  1996  acquisition  of  its  German  distributor.

- -F17-



                          RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2000 AND 1999


15.     COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME

As  of  July 1, 1999, the  Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial Accounting
Standards  No. 130, 'Reporting Comprehensive Income' which established standards
for  the reporting and display of comprehensive income and its components in the
financial  statements.  The  only component of comprehensive income that impacts
the  Company  is  foreign  currency  translation  adjustments.  The  net  loss
associated with foreign currency translation adjustments for the year ended June
30,  2000  was  $7.7 million compared to a net gain of $2.3 million for the year
ended  June  30,  1999  and net loss of $6.1 million for the year ended June 30,
1998.  Comprehensive income for the years ended June 30, 2000, June 30, 1999 and
June  30,  1998 was $14.5 million, $18.4 million and $4.6 million, respectively.
The Company does not provide for US income taxes on foreign currency translation
adjustments  since  it does not provide for such taxes on undistributed earnings
of  foreign subsidiaries.  Accumulated other comprehensive loss at June 30, 2000
and  June  30, 1999 consisted solely of foreign currency translation adjustments
and represent unrealized losses of $13.2 million and $5.4 million, respectively.


16.     LEGAL  ACTIONS

The  company  is currently engaged in litigation relating to the enforcement and
defense  of  certain  of  its  patents.

In  January  1995,  the  Company filed a complaint in the United States District
Court  for the Southern District of California seeking monetary damages from and
injunctive  relief  against Respironics for alleged infringement of three ResMed
patents.  In  February  1995, Respironics filed a complaint in the United States
District  Court  for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania against the Company
seeking  a  declaratory  judgment  that  Respironics does not infringe claims of
these patents and that the Company's patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The
two actions were combined and are proceeding in the United States District Court
for  the  Western  District of Pennsylvania.  In June 1996, the Company filed an
additional  complaint  against  Respironics  for infringement of a fourth ResMed
patent, and that complaint was consolidated with the earlier action.  As of this
date,  Respironics  has  brought  three  partial  summary  judgment  motions for
non-infringement  of  the  ResMed  patents;  the  Court  has granted each of the
motions.  In  December  1999,  in response to the Court's ruling on Respironics'
third  summary judgment motion, the parties jointly stipulated to a dismissal of
charges  of  infringement  under the fourth ResMed patent, with ResMed reserving
the  right to reassert the charges in the event of a favorable ruling on appeal.
It  is  ResMed's  intention to appeal the summary judgment rulings after a final
judgment  in  the consolidated litigation has been entered in the District Court
proceedings.

On  March  31,  2000,  the Company filed a lawsuit in the United States District
Court  for  the  Southern  District  of  California  against MPV Truma and Tiara
Medical  Systems,  Inc,  seeking  actual  and  exemplary  monetary  damages  and
injunctive  relief  for  the  unauthorized  and  infringing use of the Company's
trademarks,  trade dress, and design patents related to its Mirage  mask design.

While  the  Company  is prosecuting the above actions, there can be no assurance
that  the  Company  will  be  successful.

- -F18-



In  May  1995,  Respironics  and its Australian distributor filed a Statement of
Claim  against  the  Company  and Dr. Farrell in the Federal Court of Australia,
alleging  that  the Company engaged in unfair trade practices.  The Statement of
Claim asserts damage claims for lost profits on sales in the aggregate amount of
approximately $1,000,000.  While the Company is defending this action, there can
be no assurance that the Company will be successful or that the Company will not
be  required  to  make  significant payments to the claimants.  Furthermore, the
Company is incurring ongoing legal costs in defending this action, as well as in
the  continuing  litigation  of  its  patent  cases.


17.     SUBSEQUENT  EVENT

On  July  7,  2000,  the  Company  purchased  the  land  and buildings of its US
Headquarters  in  Poway,  California  for  $17.2  million.

The  purchase  was funded by a combination of cash reserves and an unsecured $20
million  revolving loan facility with the Union Bank of California.  The initial
draw  down  on  this  facility  was  $10  million.


- -F19-



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934,  the  Registrant  has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

DATED  September  25,  2000     ResMed  Inc

                                By        /S/  PETER  C  FARRELL
                                _______________________________________
                                Peter C Farrell, President and
                                Chief Executive  Officer
                                (Principal  Executive  Officer)


                                By       /S/  ADRIAN  M  SMITH
                                _______________________________________
                                Adrian M Smith, Chief Financial Officer
                                (Principal  Financial  Officer)



- -28-







                                                                    SCHEDULE  II
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                VALUATION  AND  QUALIFYING  ACCOUNTS  AND  RESERVES
                  YEARS  ENDED  JUNE  30,  2000,  1999  AND  1998
                                (IN  THOUSANDS)

See  accompanying  independent  auditor's  report.

- -29-


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

 3.1     Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  Registrant,  as  amended*
 3.2     By-laws  of  Registrant*
 4.1     Form  of  certificate  evidencing  shares  of  Common  Stock*
 4.2     Rights  agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1997**
10.1    1995  Stock  Option  Plan*
10.2    1997  Equity  Participation  Plan***
10.3    Licensing Agreement between the University of Sydney and ResMed Limited
        dated  May  17,  1991,  as  amended*
10.4    Consulting  Agreement  between  Colin  Sullivan  and  ResMed  Limited
        effective  from  1  January  1998****
10.5    Loan  Agreement  between  the  Australian  Trade  Commission and ResMed
        Limited  dated  May  3,  1994*
10.6    Lease  for  10121  Carroll  Canyon  Road, San Diego 92131-1109, USA****
11.1    Computation  of  Earnings  per  Common  Share
21.1    Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant
23.1    Independent  Auditors'  Consent  and  Report  on  Schedule
27.1    Financial  Data  Schedule

- --------------------
*     Incorporated  by  reference  to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
      Form  S-1  (No.  33-91094)  declared  effective  on  June  1,  1995.

**    Incorporated  by  reference from the registrants Report on Form 8-K (File
      No.  0-26038).

***   Incorporated  by  reference  from  the Registrant's 1997 Proxy Statement
        (File  No.  0-26038).

****  Incorporated  by  reference  from  the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K
      dated  June  30,  1998  (File  No.  0-26038)


                                                                   EXHIBIT  11.1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           RESMED INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   COMPUTATION  OF  EARNINGS  PER  COMMON  SHARE
                    (IN  THOUSANDS,  EXCEPT  PER  SHARE  AMOUNTS)


See  accompanying  independent  auditor's  report.




                                                                   EXHIBIT  21.1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   RESMED INC
                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT



ResMed  Holdings  Limited  (incorporated  under  the  laws  of  New South Wales,
Australia)

ResMed  Limited  (incorporated  under  the  laws of New South Wales, Australia)*

ResMed  Asia  Pacific  Limited  (incorporated under the laws of New South Wales,
Australia)*

ResMed  Corporation  (a  Minnesota  corporation)

ResMed  (UK)  Limited  (a  United  Kingdom  corporation)*

ResMed  International  Inc  (a  Delaware  corporation)

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  and  Co  Kg  (a  German  corporation)**

ResMed  SA  (a  French  corporation)**

ResMed  Priess  GmbH  (a  German  corporation)

ResMed  Singapore  Pte  Ltd  (a  Singaporean  corporation)**

ResMed  (Malaysia)  Sdn  Bhd  (a  Malaysian  Corporation)**

ResMed  New  Zealand  Limited  (a  New  Zealand  Corporation)**

ResMed  R&D Limited (incorporated under the laws of New South Wales, Australia)*

ResMed  Sweden  AB  (a  Swedish  Corporation)**

- ----------------------
*A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  Holdings  Limited

**  A  subsidiary  of  ResMed  International  Inc







                                                                   EXHIBIT  23.1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

              INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT AND REPORT ON SCHEDULE

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
ResMed  Inc:

The  audits referred to in our report dated August 4, 2000, included the related
financial  statement  schedules as of June 30, 2000 and for each of the years in
the  three-year period ended June 30, 2000.  These financial statement schedules
are  the  responsibility  of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to
express  an  opinion on these financial statement schedules based on our audits.
In  our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation
to  the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly
in  all  material  respects  the  information  set  forth  therein.

We  consent  to  incorporation  by  reference  in the registration statement (No
333-08013)  on  Form  S-8  of  ResMed  Inc  of  our  reports  included  herein.




                                  /s/ KPMG LLP
                                    KPMG LLP
                              San Diego, California
                               September 25, 2000





