Item 1A.Risk Factors



This section discusses the
most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial
condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us,
our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as
well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we
currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially
adversely affected. In that event, the value of our securities could decline.
We group these risk factors into three categories:

•Risks arising from our business;

•Risks arising from our capital structure; and

•Risks arising from our status as a REIT.



Risks Arising from Our Business



Our investments in and
acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful
or fail to meet our expectations



We are exposed to the risk
that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could
encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired
properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might
require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our
ongoing business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an
operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to
ensure completion of the project. Such expenditures may negatively affect our
results of operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our
anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to
various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing,
on anticipated terms, or at all.  We also may be unable to quickly and
efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios
of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse
effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



Our investments in joint
ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over
these investments, our partners’ insolvency or failure to meet their
obligations and disputes between us and our partners














We are exposed to operational
risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could
adversely affect our revenue and operations



We are exposed to various
operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that
may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.
These risks include fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions;
competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification
and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases
in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state
regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the
availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or
otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our
revenue and operations.



Decreases in our operators’
revenues or increases in our operators’ expenses could affect our operators’
ability to make payments to us



Our operators’ revenues are
primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses for these facilities are primarily
driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or
debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to,
come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls.
Operating costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent that any
decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a
property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our
operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the
extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an
impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an
underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment
or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results.



Increased competition may
affect our operators’ ability to meet their obligations tous



The operators of our
properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties
and other health care providers that provide comparable services. We cannot be
certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and
maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their
obligations to us. Our operators are expected to encounter increased
competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents
or expand their businesses.



A severe cold and flu season,
epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the
occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties



Our and our operators’
revenues are dependent on occupancy.  It is impossible to predict the severity
of the cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other
widespread illnesses.  The occupancy of our seniors housing operating and
triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe
cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness.  Such a
decrease could affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating
properties and the ability of our triple-net operators to make payments to us.



The insolvency or bankruptcy
of our obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition



We are exposed to the risk
that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or
other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency,
or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency










proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating
lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate
payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the
right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of
principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other
remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party
that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An obligor in bankruptcy or
subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to
collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and
interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. We
may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and
maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the
imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant.
In some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the
property to another tenant. In some of those situations, we have provided
working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we
cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of
that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Should
such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely
affected.



We may not be able to timely
reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us



From time to time, we will
have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2)
principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties,
including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or
similar financial support arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues
and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these
proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a
broad variety of potential investors. This competition for attractive
investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on
terms acceptable to us.



Failure to properly manage
our rapid growth could distract our management or increaseour
expenses



We have experienced rapid
growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to
continue this rapid growth in the future. This growth has resulted in increased
levels of responsibility for our management. Future property acquisitions could
place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our
management, resources and personnel. Our failure to manage any such rapid
growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect
our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our growth could also
increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially
dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt.



We depend on Genesis
Healthcare, LLC (“Genesis”) and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant
portion of our revenues and any inability or unwillingness by Genesis and
Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy their obligations under their agreements
with us could adversely affect us





The properties managed by
Sunrise Senior Living, LLC account for a significant portion of our revenues
and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial
condition could adversely affect us



Sunrise Senior Living, LLC
manages our entire Sunrise property portfolio, which as of December 31, 2016,
consisted of 157 seniors housing properties.  These properties account for a
significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on Sunrise Senior Living, LLC
to manage these properties efficiently and effectively.  We also rely on
Sunrise Senior Living, LLC to set appropriate resident fees, to provide
accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner
and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management
agreements and all applicable laws and regulations.  Any adverse developments
in Sunrise Senior Living, LLC’s business or financial condition could impair
its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could
adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 
Also, if Sunrise Senior Living, LLC experiences any significant financial,
legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could result
in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its
continued access to capital or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or
against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which, in turn, could adversely
affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.












Ownership of property outside
the United States may subject us to different or greater risks than those
associated with our domestic operations

















We do not know if our tenants
will renew their existing leases, and if they do not,we may be
unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all



We cannot predict whether our
tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which
expire at various times. If these leases are not renewed, we would be required
to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. There can be no
assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or
enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current
leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all.



Our operators and managers may not have the
necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses



We maintain or require our
operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our
properties and their operations with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles
that we believe are customary for similarly-situated companies in our industry,
and we continually review our insurance programs and requirements.  That said,
we cannot assure you that we or our operators or managers will continue to be
able to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages, which
could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss.  Also,
in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators and
managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of
patient care liability claims. As a result, general and professional liability
costs have increased in some markets. General and professional liability
insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect
the property operators’ and managers’ futureoperations, cash flows and financial condition, and
may have a material adverse effect on the property operators’ and managers’
ability to meet their obligations to us.



Our ownership of properties
through ground leases exposes us to the loss of suchproperties
upon breach or termination of the ground leases



We have acquired an interest
in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property
on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in
the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property
upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease
by us.



The requirements of, or
changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare or Medicaid,
could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’
ability to meet their obligations to us



Some of our obligors’
businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an
operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government
payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to
statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of
program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings,
policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or
carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect
to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any
ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. In recent years,
government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due
to budgetary pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of
paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any
assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms
may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can
be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available










for services provided by any property operator, whether
the property receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors.
Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement
rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity,
financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the
ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us.





More generally, and because of
the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health
care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and
budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching
legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business
or that of our operators and tenants.



Our operators’ or tenants’
failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely
affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our
operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us



Our operators and tenants
generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and
industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations,
and standards. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these
laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial
of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the
facility. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability
to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. See “Item 1 —
Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Fraud & Abuse
Enforcement” above.



Many of our properties may
require a license, registration, and/or certificate of need (“CON”) to operate.
Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required
license, registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the
manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could materially
adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent payments to
us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition
of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the
construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or
other similar approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain
Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and Certification” above.



Illiquidity of real estate
investments could significantly impede our ability torespond to
adverse changes in the performance of our properties



Real estate investments are
relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our
properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be
limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any
property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to
respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments couldadversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks
inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the
seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate
industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to
sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.












Unfavorable
resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition



From time to time, we may be
directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims.
We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our
actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such
operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in
connection with their respective businesses. An unfavorable resolution of
pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of its
outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and
significantly divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance
that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of,
pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future
litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to
increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations.



Development, redevelopment
and construction risks could affect our profitability



At any given time, we may be
in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will
require a CON and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their
intended use. The operator also may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid
certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or
third party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain
the necessary CON, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts
after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able
to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains
a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary
provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator
that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use
and the necessary provider agreements or contracts.



In connection with our
renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we
may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning,
land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our
abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be able to obtain
financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our
development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and
lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt
service expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required
for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we
may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to
make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations
or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money
to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not
produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall
financial performance.



In deciding whether to acquire
or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected
future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on
our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. If
our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a
result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to
perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs
of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be
inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals.
Additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the
cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating
expenses and debt service associated with that property.



We may
experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters,
which could result in an increase of our or our tenants’ cost of insurance, a
decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we
have invested in a property





We may incur costs to
remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an
adverse effect on our or our obligors’ business or financial condition












Under
various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be
required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the
property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or
penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous
substances. We may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs
it incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability
attaches to a person based on the person’s relationship to the property. Our
tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the
property. Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties
that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments
are designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe
qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities
arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our
properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However,
environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur
costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of
our obligors.



Cybersecurity incidents could
disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information



Our business is at risk from
and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain
unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security
breaches. Such cyber attacks can range from individual attempts to gain
unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated
security threats. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and
mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful
in preventing a cyber attack. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our
business and compromise the confidential information of our employees,
operators and tenants.



Actual or threatened
terrorist attacks could adversely affect the occupancy and the value of our properties



We have significant
investments in large metropolitan markets that have been or may be in the
future the targets of actual or threatened terrorism attacks, including Boston,
Chicago, New York, San Diego, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Washington D.C. 
As a result, some of our tenants in these markets may choose to relocate to
other markets that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future
terrorist activity.  This could result in an overall decrease in the occupancy
of our properties.  In addition, terrorist attacks could also result in
significant damages to, or loss of, our properties, which could exceed our
insurance coverage.



Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions



Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on
share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval
requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for
or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our
incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.



Our success depends on key
personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed



We are dependent on key
personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our
executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an
adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing more than one could
have a material adverse impact on our business.



Risks Arising from Our Capital
Structure



We may become more leveraged



Permanent financing for our
investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of
debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more
leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash
flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn
in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4)
negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating
agencies.



We are subject to covenants
in our debt agreements that may restrict or limit our operations and
acquisitions and our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt
agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of
operations and financial condition



Our debt agreements contain
various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things,
these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum
net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants
could result in defaults under the instruments governing the










applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other
indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. These defaults could
have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.



Limitations on our ability to
access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future
investments or to meet our obligations and commitments



We cannot assure you that we
will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to
meet our obligations and commitments as they mature.  Our access to capital
depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control,
including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions;
the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential
future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our
capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial
stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their
commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes
in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; or default or delay
in payment by the United States of its obligations. If our access to capital is
limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our
ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund
operations or make distributions to our stockholders.



Downgrades in our credit
ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of
capital



We plan to manage the Company
to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there
can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit
ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the
rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.



Fluctuations in the value of
foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial position



As we expand our operations
internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results
of operations and financial position. We expect to generate an increasing
portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the Canadian
dollar and the British pound. Although we may enter into foreign exchange
agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage
debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign
currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not
have a material adverse effect on us.



Our entry into swap
agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates
or foreign currency exchange rates



We enter into swap agreements
from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign
currency exchange rate volatility. These swap agreements involve risks, such as
the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing
our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates.
When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will
not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to
hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely
affected.



Risks Arising from Our Status as
a REIT



We might fail to qualify or
remain qualified as a REIT



We intend to operate as a REIT
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe
we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as
a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially
reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution
to our stockholders because:

•we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in
computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at
regular corporate rates;

•we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly
increased state and local taxes; and

•unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could
not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the
year during which we were disqualified.



Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a
number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill
them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal
and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the
amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT,
we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT
is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT
status or avoid an excise tax. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal
Income Tax Considerations” above for a discussion of the provisions of the Code
that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a REIT. In addition,
if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would
continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and
accumulated earnings and










profits, although corporate
stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and
individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally
applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with
respect to distributions.



As a result of all these
factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to
implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly
technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial
and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual
matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our
ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that we qualify as a
REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified
as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See “Item 1 — Business —
Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations” above.



Certain subsidiaries might
fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT



We own interests in a number
of entities which have elected to be taxed as REITs for federal income tax
purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but
each of which is treated as a separate REIT for federal income tax purposes
(each a “Subsidiary REIT”).  To qualify as a REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must
independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements under the
Code, together with all other rules applicable to REITs.  Provided that each
Subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will
be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset
tests.  See “Item 1 – Business – Taxation – Federal Income Tax Considerations –
Qualification as a REIT – Asset Tests” above.  If a Subsidiary REIT fails to
qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT will be subject to
federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for the
four subsequent taxable years.  Any such failure could have an adverse effect
on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our
ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain
relief provisions.



The 90% annual distribution
requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in
otherwise beneficial transactions





The lease of qualified health
care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements



We lease certain qualified
health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability
companies of which the taxable REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees
contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care
operations at these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary
lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they
are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property
with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible
independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are
not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. See “Item 1 —
Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a
REIT — Income Tests”above.



If certain sale-leaseback
transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as “true
leases,” we may be subject to adverse tax consequences



We have purchased certain
properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may
enter into similar transactions in the future. We intend for any such
sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease
will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as
the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However,
depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the Internal Revenue
Service might take the position that the transaction is not a “true lease” but
is more properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback
transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the Internal
Revenue Service, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for
depreciation and










cost recovery generally available to an owner of
property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized,
we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests or income tests and,
consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of
re-characterization. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax
Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Asset Tests” and “Item 1 — Business
— Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT —
Income Tests” above. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could
be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual
distribution requirements for a taxable year. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation
— Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Annual
Distribution Requirements” above.



The new Presidential
Administration may propose substantial changes to fiscal and tax policies that,
if enacted, may adversely affect REITs and our business



The recently inaugurated U.S.
President and his Administration have called for substantial changes to fiscal
and tax policies, which may include comprehensive tax reform. We cannot predict
the impact, if any, of such tax reform to REITs or to our business.  It is
possible that any comprehensive tax reform could adversely affect REITs in
general or our business specifically.  Until any such tax reform changes
are enacted, we will not know whether we will benefit from, or will be
negatively affected by, such changes.



