Item 1A.Risk Factors



This section discusses the
most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial
condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us,
our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as
well as other risks and uncertainties that are not addressed in this section or
that we have not yet identified, actually occur, we could be materially
adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. We group
these risk factors into three categories:

•Risks arising from our business;

•Risks arising from our capital structure; and

•Risks arising from our status as a REIT.



Risks Arising from Our Business



Our investments in and acquisitions
of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to
meet our expectations





Our investments in joint
ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over
these investments, our partners’ insolvency or failure to meet their
obligations, and disputes between us and our partners





We are exposed to operational
risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could
adversely affect our revenue and operations



We are exposed to various
operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that
may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.
These risks include fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions;
competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability
and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage;
state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the
availability and








increases in the cost of labor (as a
result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors
may adversely affect our revenue and operations.



Decreases in our operators’
revenues or increases in our operators’ expenses could affect our operators’
ability to make payments to us



Our operators’ revenues are
primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses for these facilities are primarily
driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or
debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to,
come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls.
Operating costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent that any
decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a
property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our
operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the
extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an
impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an
underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment
or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results.  All of the
foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current
rate.



Increased competition and
oversupply may affect our operators’ ability to meet their obligations tous



The operators of our
properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties
and other health care providers that provide comparable services for residents
and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and
services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of
the properties, price, and location.  Our operators are expected to encounter
increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract
residents or expand their businesses.  In addition, we expect that there will
continue to be a more than adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities.  We
cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to
achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all
of their obligations to us.  If our operators cannot compete effectively or if
there is an oversupply of facilities, their financial performance and ability
to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our
financial results.



A severe cold and flu season,
epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the
occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties



Our and our operators’ revenues
are dependent on occupancy.  It is impossible to predict the severity of the
cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread
illnesses.  The occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net
properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu
season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness.  Such a decrease could
affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating properties and the
ability of our triple-net operators to make payments to us.  In addition, a flu
pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our operators,
including if they are required to implement quarantines for residents, and
adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us, which would
have a material adverse effect on our financial results.



The insolvency or bankruptcy
of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely
affect our business, results of operations and financial condition





We may not be able to timely
reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us



From time to time, we will
have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal
payments on our loans receivable or the sale of properties, including
non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar
financial support








arrangements. In order to maintain
current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to
re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate
investments with a broad variety of potential investors, including other health
care REITs, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care
lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies,
pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of
whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do.
This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability
to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us.



We
depend on Genesis HealthCare (“Genesis”) and Brookdale Senior Living (“Brookdale”)
for a significant portion of our revenues and any failure, inability or
unwillingness by them to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us
could adversely affect us





The properties managed by
Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (“Sunrise”) account for a significant portion of our
revenues and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or
financial condition could adversely affect us



As of December 31, 2017,
Sunrise managed 158 of our seniors housing operating properties.  These
properties account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on
Sunrise to manage these properties efficiently and effectively.  We also rely
on Sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level
financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise
operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all
applicable laws and regulations.  Any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business
or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently
and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of
operations, and financial condition.  Also, if Sunrise experiences any
significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such
difficulties could result in, among other things, acceleration of its
indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the commencement
of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code,
which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.



Ownership of property outside
the U.S. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated
with our domestic operations

















If our tenants do not renew
their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity
reasons,we may be unable to lease or sell the properties on
favorable terms, or at all










We
cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of
their lease terms, which expire at various times. If these leases are not
renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties
or sell them. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify
suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as
favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those
properties at all.



Real estate investments are
relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for
specific uses. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in
response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited.
No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property
that we are required to sell. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in
the performance of our investments couldadversely affect our financial condition and results
of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in
concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors
housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could
adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties
for a price or on terms acceptable to us.  All of the foregoing could affect
our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate.



Our tenants, operators and managers may not have
the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses



We maintain or require our
tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on
our properties and their operations with terms, conditions, limits and
deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly-situated companies in
our industry, and we frequently review our insurance programs and
requirements.  That said, we cannot assure you that we or our tenants,
operators or managers will continue to be able to maintain adequate levels of
insurance and required coverages or that we will continue to require the same
levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements,
which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss. 
Also, in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators
and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size
of patient care liability claims. As a result, general and professional
liability costs have increased in some markets. General and professional liability
insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect
the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ futureoperations, cash flows and financial condition, and
may have a material adverse effect on the tenants’, operators’ and managers’
ability to meet their obligations to us.



Our ownership of properties
through ground leases exposes us to the loss of suchproperties
upon breach or termination of the ground leases



We have acquired an interest
in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property
on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in
the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property
upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease
by us.



The requirements of, or
changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or
government funding, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’
liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely
affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us





The Health
Reform Laws, provide those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to
otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal
poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage,
effective January 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. Given that the
federal government substantially funds the Medicaid expansion, it is unclear
how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early
February2018, more than60% of
the states have expanded Medicaid coverage. The participation by states in the
Medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants’
revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their
ability to pay our tenants. We expect that the current Presidential
Administration and U.S. Congress will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise
invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Health Reform Laws, including
Medicaid expansion. Since taking office, President Trump has continued to
support the repeal of all or portions of the Health Reform Laws.  See
“Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States —
Reimbursement” above for additional information. If the operations, cash flows
or financial condition of our operators and tenants are








materially
adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue
and operations may be adversely affected as well. More generally, and because
of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health
care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and
budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching
legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business,
or that of our operators and tenants.



Our operators’ or tenants’
failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated
licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could
adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely
affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us



Our operators and tenants
generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and
industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations,
and standards. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these
laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial
of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the
facility. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability
to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. See “Item 1 —
Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Fraud & Abuse
Enforcement” above.



Many of our properties may
require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a
license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required license, registration, or
CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the
operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our
operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent or other obligatory payments to us.
State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of
new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction
or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar
approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government
Regulations — United States — Licensing and Certification” above.



The real estate market and
our business may be negatively impacted by changes to U.S. tax laws



The Tax Act adopted on
December 22, 2017 significantly changes the U.S. income tax rules for
individuals and corporations.  We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the
Tax Act and, as such, its implications for our business remain uncertain. 
Although the Tax Act involves comprehensive changes to the system of corporate
income tax, it does not substantively change the manner in which REITs are
taxed.  Although numerous provisions of the Tax Act do affect REITs, we are
generally not subject to pay federal taxes applicable to regular corporations
if we comply with the tax regulations governing REIT status.  Nonetheless, the
Tax Act makes numerous changes to the individual income tax rules that may
affect the real estate market in the U.S., including limitations on the
deductibility of state and local property taxes, the elimination of the
deductibility of interest on new home equity loans and a reduction in the limit
for an individual’s mortgage interest expense to interest on $750,000 of
mortgages.  Although the impact of these changes is likely to be most
significant in the residential real estate market, rather than in the sectors
where we operate, the effects of these changes on the broader real estate
market in the geographic areas in which we operate and on our tenants remain
uncertain.



Changes
in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results



We are subject to taxation in
the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Because, even with the passage of
the Tax Act, the U.S. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign
and U.S. tax systems are somewhat interdependent.  Longstanding international
norms that determine each country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border
international trade are evolving, such as the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting
project (“BEPS”) currently being undertaken by the G8, G20 and Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  Tax changes pursuant to BEPS could
reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes
the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby, increasing the foreign tax
liability of the subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could
increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest.  Given the
unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency,
it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes
on our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our
financial results.



Unfavorable resolution of
pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition



From time to time, we may be
directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims.
We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our
actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such
operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in
connection with their respective businesses. An unfavorable resolution of
pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless
of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and
significantly divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance
that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of,
pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future
litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to
increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations.



Development, redevelopment
and construction risks could affect our profitability










At any given time, we may be
in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will
require a CON and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their
intended use. The operator also may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid
certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or
third party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain
the necessary CON, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts
after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able
to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains
a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary
provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator
that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use
and the necessary provider agreements or contracts.



In connection with our
renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we
may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning,
land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our
abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be able to obtain
financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our
development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and
lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt
service expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required
for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we
may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to
make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations
or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money
to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not
produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall
financial performance.



In deciding whether to acquire
or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected
future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on
our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. If
our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a
result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to
perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs
of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be
inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals.
Additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the
cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating
expenses and debt service associated with that property.



We may
experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters,
which could result in an increase of our or our tenants’ cost of insurance, a
decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we
have invested in a property





We may incur costs to
remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an
adverse effect on our or our obligors’ business or financial condition



Under various laws, owners or
operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release
of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property
damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental
contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. We may become liable to
reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the
contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the
person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily
responsible for the condition of the property. Moreover, we review
environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior
to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the “all
appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent
purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such
assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to
material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be
present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial
condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors.



Cybersecurity incidents could
disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information



Our business is at risk from
and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain
unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security breaches,
including those resulting from human error, product defects and technology
failures. Such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain
unauthorized access to our information technology systems to








more sophisticated security threats. While we employ a
number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no
guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack.
Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business, compromise the confidential
information of our employees, operators, tenants and partners, damage our
reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.



Our success depends on key
personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed



Our success depends on the
continued availability and service of key personnel, including our executive
officers and other highly qualified employees, and competition for their
talents is intense.  We cannot assure you that we will retain our key personnel
or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees
in the future.  Losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of
operations.



Risks Arising from Our Capital
Structure



Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions



Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on
share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval
requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for
or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our
incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.



We may become more leveraged



Permanent financing for our
investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of
debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more
leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash
flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn
in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4)
negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating
agencies.



Cash available for distributions
to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected
levels and are made at the discretion of the Board of Directors



If cash available for
distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or
otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. 
Our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease
in the market price of our common stock.  All distributions are made at the
discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with Delaware law and depend
on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to
us, our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating
performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual
arrangements, maintenance of our REIT qualification, restrictions under
Delaware law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from
time to time.  Additionally, our ability to make distributions will be
adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant
adverse events, occur.



We are subject to covenants
in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition



Our debt agreements contain
various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things,
these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum
net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants
could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable
indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against
such instruments. These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.



Limitations on our ability to
access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future
investments or to meet our obligations and commitments



We cannot assure you that we
will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to
meet our obligations and commitments as they mature.  Our access to capital
depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control,
including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions;
the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential
future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our capital
stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial stability of
our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us
or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes in the credit
ratings on U.S. government debt securities; or default or delay in payment by
the U.S. of its obligations. If our access to capital is limited by these
factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire
properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make
distributions to our stockholders.










Downgrades
in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital



We plan to manage the Company
to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there
can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit
ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the
rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability
of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our results
of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.



Increases in interest rates
could have a material adverse impact on our cost of capital



An increase in interest rates
may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt.  Such
increases in the cost of capital could adversely impact our ability to finance
operations, the acquisition and development of properties, and refinance
existing debt.  Additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less
liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell existing assets.



Fluctuations in the value of
foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial position



Currency exchange rate
fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. We
generate a portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as
the Canadian dollar and the British pound sterling. Although we may enter into
foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local
currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the
value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency
fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us.



Our entry into hedge agreements
may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign
currency exchange rates



We enter into hedge agreements
from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign
currency exchange rate volatility. These agreements involve risks, such as the
risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing
our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates.
When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will
not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to
hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely
affected.



Risks Arising from Our Status as
a REIT



We might fail to qualify or
remain qualified as a REIT



We intend to operate as a REIT
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe
we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as
a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially
reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution
to our stockholders because:

•we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in
computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at
regular corporate rates;

•we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly
increased state and local taxes; and

•unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could
not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the
year during which we were disqualified.



Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a
number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill
them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal
and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the
amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT,
we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT
is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT
status or avoid an excise tax. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT,
all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to
the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although
corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction,
and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally
applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with
respect to distributions.



As a result of all these
factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to
implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly
technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial
and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual
matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our
ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that we qualify as a
REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified
as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.



Certain subsidiaries might
fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT










We
own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as REITs
for U.S. federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for
financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate REIT
for federal income tax purposes (each a “Subsidiary REIT”).  To qualify as a
REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT
qualification requirements under the Code, together with all other rules
applicable to REITs.  Provided that each Subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT,
our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will be treated as qualifying real estate
assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests.  If a Subsidiary REIT fails to
qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT will be subject to
federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for the
four subsequent taxable years.  Any such failure could have an adverse effect
on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our
ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain
relief provisions.



The 90% annual distribution
requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in
otherwise beneficial transactions





The lease of qualified health
care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements



We lease certain qualified
health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability
companies of which the taxable REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees
contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care
operations at these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary
lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they
are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property
with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible
independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are
not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents.



If certain sale-leaseback
transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as
“true leases,” we may be subject to adverse tax consequences



We have purchased certain
properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may
enter into similar transactions in the future. We intend for any such
sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease
will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as
the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However,
depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the IRS might take the
position that the transaction is not a “true lease” but is more properly
treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is
challenged and successfully re-characterized by the IRS, we would not be
entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation andcost recovery generally available to an owner of
property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so
re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests or income tests
and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of
re-characterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could
be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual
distribution requirements for a taxable year.



We could be subject to
changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax
legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities



We are subject to taxes in the
U.S. and foreign jurisdictions.  Our analysis of the Tax Act may be impacted by
any corrective legislation and any guidance provided by the U.S. Treasury, the IRS
or by the General Explanation of the Tax Act, which is under preparation by the
Staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  Our effective tax
rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with
differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets
and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.  We are also
subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS
and other tax authorities and governmental bodies.  We regularly assess the
likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine
the adequacy of our provision for taxes.  There can be no assurance as to the
outcome of these examinations.  If we were subject to review or examination by
the IRS or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax law
changes (including the recently enacted Tax Act) the ultimate determination of
which may change our taxes owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously
accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows
could be adversely affected.