ITEM 1. BUSINESS





History and Organization



For more than a century, Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. (herein referred to as "HII", the "Company", "we", "us", or "our" and, as the context requires, including our predecessor business as a subsidiary of Northrop Grumman Corporation ("Northrop Grumman")) has been designing, building, overhauling and repairing ships primarily for the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Coast Guard. We are the nation's sole designer, builder and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, the builder of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships for the U.S. Navy, the sole builder of National Security Cutters for the U.S. Coast Guard, one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the U.S. Navy and one of only two companies that builds the Navy's current fleet of DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyers. We are the exclusive provider of Refueling and Complex Overhaul services for nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, a full-service systems provider for the design, engineering, construction and life cycle support of major programs for surface ships and a provider of fleet support and maintenance services for the U.S. Navy.



Our primary areas of business include the design, construction, repair and maintenance of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants, expeditionary warfare/amphibious assault, and coastal defense surface ships, as well as the refueling and overhaul and the inactivation of nuclear-powered ships. We operate our shipbuilding business through our Huntington Ingalls Incorporated subsidiary, which is organized into two segments: Ingalls Shipbuilding ("Ingalls"), which includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair and maintenance businesses; and Newport News Shipbuilding ("Newport News"), which includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, refueling and repair and maintenance businesses.



Our three major shipyards are currently located in Pascagoula, Mississippi, Avondale, Louisiana, and Newport News, Virginia. We intend to wind down military shipbuilding at our Avondale shipyard in 2014 and consolidate those activities into our Pascagoula shipyard. We are exploring the potential for alternative uses of the Avondale facility, including alternative opportunities for the workforce there. For a more detailed discussion of the costs that we expect to incur in connection with the wind down of military shipbuilding at Avondale, see Risk Factors in Item 1A.



We conduct substantially all of our business with the U.S. Government, principally the Department of Defense ("DoD"). As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense technology programs. We believe our product capabilities, heavy industrial facilities, and a workforce of approximately38,000employees position us well to continue to support the long-term objectives of the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard to adapt and respond to a complex, uncertain and rapidly changing national security environment.



We became an independent, publicly-owned company on March 31, 2011, when we were spun off from Northrop Grumman. We have owned and operated the legacy Northrop Grumman shipbuilding business since the spin-off.





Ingalls



Through our Ingalls operations, we design and construct non-nuclear ships for the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard, including amphibious assault ships, surface combatants and National Security Cutters ("NSCs"). We are the supplier of amphibious assault ships to the U.S. Navy and built 28 of the 62 DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class of Aegis guided missile destroyers in active service. We are also the sole builder of the large multi-mission National Security Cutters for the U.S. Coast Guard. Our Ingalls shipbuilding sites are located in Pascagoula, Mississippi, Gulfport, Mississippi, and Avondale, Louisiana. These facilities offer a collection of manufacturing capabilities that include a 660-ton gantry crane and a Land Based Test Facility.











We are winding down military shipbuilding at Avondale and consolidating that activity at our Pascagoula, Mississippi, facility, which we believe will decrease our fixed overhead expenses, provide improved facility utilization and a more cost-efficient construction process, centralize our shipbuilding learning and increase the benefits of serial production, and reduce program costs, thereby enhancing our competitive position. In September 2013, we announced the closing of our Gulfport Composite Center of Excellence (the "Gulfport facility") in Gulfport, Mississippi, due to limited demand from the U.S. Navy for composite products provided by our Gulfport facility. We expect to complete outstanding work and close the Gulfport facility by the end of the second quarter of 2014.



Amphibious Assault Ships



We are the supplier to the U.S. Navy of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships, which include the U.S. Navy large deck amphibious ships ("LHA"), amphibious transport dock ships ("LPD") and multi-purpose amphibious assault ships ("LHD"). The LHA is a key component of the U.S. Navy-Marine Corps requirement for 11 Expeditionary Strike Groups/Amphibious Readiness Groups, and design, construction and modernization of LHAs are core to our Ingalls operations. Construction of LHD-1Wasp-class multipurpose amphibious assault ships concluded with our delivery of LHD-8 USSMakin Islandin 2009. In 2007, we were awarded the construction contract for LHA-6America, the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships designed from the keel up to be an aviation optimized Marine assault platform. We expect to deliver LHA-6Americain the second quarter of 2014 and are currently constructing LHA-7Tripoli, scheduled for delivery in 2018.



The LPD program is a long-running production program where we have an opportunity to take advantage of cost reductions resulting from ship-over-ship learning. We are currently constructing two LPD-17San Antonio-class amphibious transport dock ships, LPD-26John P. Murthascheduled for delivery in 2016 and LPD-27Portlandscheduled for delivery in 2017, in our Pascagoula shipyard. We delivered LPD-25Somersetin 2013, LPD-23Anchorageand LPD-24Arlingtonin 2012, and LPD-22 USSSan Diegoin 2011.



Surface Combatants



We are a design agent for and one of only two companies that constructs the DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyers. We have delivered 28 DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyers to the U.S. Navy, including DDG-110 USSWilliam P. Lawrencein February 2011. We are currently constructing DDG-113John Finnand DDG-114Ralph Johnson, scheduled for delivery in 2016 and 2017, respectively. In 2013, we were awarded a multi-year contract totaling $3.3 billion for construction of five additional DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyers as a part of a larger U.S. Navy order for nine DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyers.



In 2008, the U.S. Navy truncated the DDG-1000Zumwalt-class program when it restarted the DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyer production line. Our participation in the DDG-1000Zumwalt-class destroyers program has included detailed design and construction of the ships' integrated composite deckhouses and hangars, as well as portions of the ships' aft peripheral vertical launch systems. We expect to complete our participation in this program with the delivery of the composite deckhouse of DDG-1001Michael Monsoorin 2014.The U.S. Navy has decided to acquire a steel deckhouse structure for the third and final ship of the class.



National Security Cutter



The U.S. Coast Guard's recapitalization program is designed to replace aging and operationally expensive ships and aircraft used to conduct missions in excess of 50 miles from the shoreline. The flagship of this program is theLegend-class NSC, a multi-mission platform we designed and built. The U.S. Coast Guard ordered the first three NSC vessels from Integrated Coast Guard Systems ("ICGS"), a joint venture between Lockheed Martin and us, pursuant to an Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity ("IDIQ") contract for the Deepwater Modernization Program. The first National Security Cutter, NSC-1 USCGCBertholf, was delivered to the U.S. Coast Guard in 2008, followed by NSC-2 USCGCWaeschein 2009 and NSC-3 USCGCStrattonin 2011. Beginning in 2010 with the construction contract for NSC-4Hamilton, the NSC contracts have been awarded directly to Ingalls. NSC-4Hamiltonand NSC-5Jamesare currently under construction. Ingalls was awarded a construction contract for NSC-6Munroin 2013.











Fleet Support: AMSEC and Continental Maritime of San Diego ("CMSD")



Fleet Support provides comprehensive life cycle services, including depot maintenance, modernization, repairs, logistics and technical support and planning yard services for naval and commercial vessels through our AMSEC and CMSD subsidiaries. We have ship repair facilities in Newport News, Virginia, and San Diego, California, which are near the U.S. Navy's largest homeports of Norfolk, Virginia, and San Diego, respectively. AMSEC provides naval architecture and marine engineering, ship system assessments, maintenance engineering and logistics services to the U.S. Navy and commercial maritime industry from 27 locations across the globe. On any given day, over 600 of our AMSEC employees are on board U.S. Navy ships, assessing equipment conditions, modernizing systems and training sailors. Through CMSD, a Master Ship Repair contractor, we provide ship repair, regular overhaul and selected restricted availability services (pier side or in customers' dry docks) for the U.S. Navy. We also perform emergent repair for the U.S. Navy on all classes of ships. Beginning in 2014, Fleet Support, including AMSEC and CMSD, was reorganized as part of our Newport News operating segment.





Newport News



The capabilities of our Newport News operations extend from our core business of designing and constructing nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and the refueling and overhaul and the inactivation of such ships, to our secondary businesses that are focused on the construction of heavy manufacturing equipment for commercial nuclear power facilities and the operation, management and cleanup of environmental hazard sites through Department of Energy ("DoE") programs. Our Newport News shipyard is one of the largest shipyards in the United States, located on approximately 550 acres near the mouth of the James River, which adjoins the Chesapeake Bay. The shipyard has two miles of waterfront property and heavy industrial facilities that include seven graving docks, a floating dry dock, two outfitting berths, five outfitting piers, module outfitting facilities and various other workshops. Our Newport News shipyard also has a 2,170-foot dry dock and a 1,050-ton gantry crane capable of servicing two aircraft carriers at one time.



Design, Construction and Refueling and Complex Overhaul of Aircraft Carriers



Engineering, design and construction of U.S. Navy nuclear aircraft carriers are core to our operations. Aircraft carriers are the largest ships in the U.S. Navy's fleet, with a displacement of over 90,000 tons. Newport News has delivered 30 aircraft carriers to the U.S. Navy since 1933, including all ten ships currently in active service.



We delivered the U.S. Navy's newest carrier and the last of the CVN-68Nimitz-class, CVN-77 USSGeorge H.W. Bush, in 2009. We have been engaged in design work on the next generation aircraft carrier, the CVN-78Gerald R. Ford-class, for over ten years. In 2008, we were awarded a $5.1 billion contract for detail design and construction of the first ship of the class, CVN-78Gerald R. Ford, which is scheduled for delivery in 2016. We also received awards in 2009 through 2013 totaling $2.0 billion under a construction preparation contract for the second CVN-78Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carrier, CVN-79John F. Kennedy. This contract includes design, planning, procurement of long-lead-time materials and limited fabrication, as well as continued research and development with key suppliers.



We continue to be the exclusive prime contractor for nuclear aircraft carrier Refueling and Complex Overhaul ("RCOH"). Each RCOH takes over three years to complete, and the work accounts for approximately 35% of all maintenance and modernization during an aircraft carrier's 50 year service life. RCOH services include propulsion work (refueling of reactors; propulsion plant modernization; and propulsion plant repairs), restoration of service life (dry docking, tank and void maintenance; hull, shafting, propellers and rudders; launch and recovery system; piping repairs; and component refurbishment), and modernization (electrical systems; aviation support systems; warfare; interoperability; and environmental compliance). We provide ongoing maintenance services for the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through both RCOH and on-site fleet repair work.



We completed the RCOH for CVN-71 USSTheodore Rooseveltand redelivered it to the U.S. Navy in 2013. We have also received awards totaling $2.6 billion under an execution contract for the RCOH of CVN-72 USSAbraham Lincoln. We believe our position as the exclusive designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, as well as the fact that RCOH work requires a highly trained workforce, is capital-intensive and has high barriers to entry due to its nuclear component, strongly positions us for the award of future RCOH contracts on the current and future U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet.











Aircraft Carrier Inactivation



The U.S. Navy awarded us a $745 million contract in 2013 to inactivate CVN-65 USSEnterprise, the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which was built by us and commissioned in 1961, with a scheduled redelivery date in 2016. Aircraft carriers have a lifespan of approximately 50 years, and we believe the ten carriers delivered by us that are currently in active service, as well as those we will deliver in the future, present a significant opportunity for us with respect to their inactivation. We believe that the U.S. Navy will require inactivation of aircraft carriers in the naval fleet as they reach the end of their lifespans, and we intend to be positioned as the best choice to be awarded that work.



Design and Construction of Nuclear-Powered Submarines



We are one of only two companies in the United States capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the U.S. Navy. Newport News has delivered58submarines to the U.S. Navy since 1960, comprised of44fast attack and14ballistic missile submarines. Of the 54 nuclear-powered fast attack submarines currently in active service, 26 were delivered by Newport News. Our nuclear submarine program, located at our Newport News shipyard, includes construction, engineering, design, research and integrated planning.



In February 1997, we executed a teaming agreement with Electric Boat, a division of General Dynamics Corporation ("General Dynamics"), to build SSN-774Virginia-class fast attack nuclear submarines cooperatively. Under the present arrangement, we build the stern, habitability and machinery spaces, torpedo room, sail and bow,while Electric Boat builds the engine room, control room and pressure hull structure. Work on the reactor plant and the final assembly, test, outfit and delivery of the submarines alternate between Electric Boat and us.



Thefour submarines of the first block and the six submarines of the second block of SSN-774Virginia-class submarines have been delivered. In December 2008, the team was awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight SSN-774Virginia-class submarines. The multi-year contract increased construction from one submarine per year to two submarines per year from 2011 through 2013. The eighth submarine to be procured under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019.



SSBN(X) Ohio-Class Replacement Program



The U.S. Navy's shipbuilding plan for Fiscal Year 2013 states the U.S. Navy's intention to focus on the design and construction of replacement boats for the current aging

Ohio

-class nuclear ballistic and cruise missile submarines. The U.S. Navy has committed to designing a replacement class for the SSBN

Ohio

-class nuclear ballistic missile submarines ("SSBN"), which were first introduced into service in 1981. We are currently participating in the design effort, and our experience and specialized workforce position us for a potential role in the construction effort, but no decisions have been made regarding that aspect of the program. The SSBN

Ohio-

class includes 14 nuclear ballistic missile submarines and four nuclear cruise missile submarines ("SSGN"). The

Ohio

Replacement Program currently anticipates 12 new ballistic missile submarines over a 15-year period at a cost of approximately $4 billion to $7 billion each. The U.S. Navy has initiated the design process for the new class of submarine, and we have begun design work as a subcontractor to Electric Boat. Congress has delayed the start of the first

Ohio

replacement submarine by two years and construction is now expected to begin in 2021, with procurement of long-lead-time materials in 2017 and delivery in 2030. The first

Ohio

-class ballistic missile submarine is expected to be retired in 2027 with an additional submarine being retired each year thereafter. By 2030 the

Ohio

-class ballistic missile submarine fleet is expected to be down to ten. The current fiscal environment and uncertainty in defense budgets may cause additional delay to the start of construction or result in a reduction in the number of ships being procured, but we believe the

Ohio

Replacement Program may represent a significant opportunity for us in the future.



Energy



Our DoE and commercial nuclear programs leverage our core competencies in nuclear operations, program management and heavy manufacturing. We selectively partner with experienced industry leaders, and we are a participant in one active joint venture. We are also able, through our subsidiary Newport News Industrial Corporation ("NNI"), to provide a range of services to the energy industry, as well as government customers.











Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC ("SRNS")



In January 2008, SRNS, our joint venture with Fluor Federal Services, Inc. and Honeywell International Inc., was awarded a five-year $4 billion contract for site management and operations at the DoE's Savannah River Site located 12 miles south of Aiken, South Carolina. Work at the site includes management of a national laboratory and the cleanup of nuclear waste, both newly generated and backlogged, and legacy wastes that exist at various facilities throughout the Savannah River Site. As part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, SRNS was awarded a $1.4 billion contract to deactivate and remediate several reactors and sites at the Savannah River Site. In September 2012, the DoE exercised its option to extend the original contract for another three years, bringing the total contract value to approximately $8 billion. We have a34%ownership stake in SRNS.



Newport News Industrial Corporation



NNI provides a range of support services to operating commercial nuclear power plants. Since it was founded in 1965, NNI has expanded its capabilities, continuing to provide support for nuclear energy facilities, as well as for fossil power plants and other industrial facilities. NNI focuses on fabrication services, construction services, equipment services, technical services and product sales to its customers, which include both private industry and government entities such as the DoE and the DoD.





Corporate



Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware on August 4, 2010. Our principal executive offices are located at 4101 Washington Avenue, Newport News, Virginia 23607. Our telephone number is (757) 380-2000, and our home page on the Internet is www.huntingtoningalls.com. References to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Accordingly, such information should not be considered part of this report.





Summary Segment Financial Data



For a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see Segment Operating Results in Item 7 and Note 8: Segment Information in Item 8.





Customers



Revenues from the U.S. Government accounted for substantially all of our revenues in2013,2012and2011. In2013,2012and2011, approximately 94%, 96% and 97%, respectively, of our revenues were generated from the U.S. Navy and approximately 6%, 4% and 3%, respectively, were generated from the U.S. Coast Guard.





Intellectual Property



With approximately 5,000 engineers and designers, we develop and incorporate into our vessels new technologies, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. Government holds licenses to our patents developed in the performance of U.S. Government contracts and unlimited license rights in technical data developed under our U.S. Government contracts when such data is developed entirely at government expense. The U.S. Government may use or authorize others to use the technology covered by our patents licensed to the government. While our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business.





Seasonality



No material portion of our business is seasonal. The timing of our revenue recognition is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, contract cost estimation, and unit deliveries. See Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments - Revenue Recognition in Item 7.













Backlog



As ofDecember 31, 2013and2012, our total backlog was approximately$18 billionand$16 billion, respectively. Approximately32%ofbacklog atDecember 31, 2013, is expected to be converted into sales in2014.



Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded IDIQ orders. For contracts having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. Backlog is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. For backlog by segment, see Backlog in Item 7.





Raw Materials



The most significant material we use is steel. Other materials used in large quantities include paint, aluminum, pipe, electrical cable and fittings. All of these materials are currently available in adequate supply. In connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component parts from supply sources approved by the U.S. Government. Generally, for long-term contracts, we obtain price quotations for many of our materials requirements from multiple suppliers to ensure competitive pricing. We have not generally been dependent upon any one supply source; however, due largely to the consolidation of the defense industry, we currently have only one supplier for certain component parts. We believe that these single source suppliers, as well as our overall supplier base, are adequate to meet our future needs. We have mitigated some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with certain raw material suppliers. In addition, we have mitigated price risk related to raw material purchases through certain contractual arrangements with customers.





Research and Development



To foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct research and development activities as part of our normal business operations. Our research and development activities primarily include Independent Research and Development ("IR&D") efforts related to government programs. We recover a significant portion of our IR&D expenditures through overhead charges to U.S. Government contracts, consistent with U.S. Government regulations. We include IR&D expenses in general and administrative expenses. Company-sponsored IR&D expenses totaled$22 million,$21 millionand$24 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively.



At our Virginia Advanced Shipbuilding and Carrier Integration Center ("VASCIC"), located in Newport News, Virginia, we conduct on-site warfare systems testing, training and laboratory research for the next generation of aircraft carriers, submarines and other ships. VASCIC serves as the focal point for the integration of ship systems and the application of new technologies. It has a classified facility and an integration area that facilitates research and development related to setup and testing of electronics as well as hull, mechanical and electrical systems prior to introducing new equipment on board a ship. It also has modeling and simulation capability allowing for visualization using 3-D displays. We believe VASCIC benefits the U.S. Navy and represents a competitive advantage for us by developing future naval capabilities, reducing total ownership cost and facilitating technology transfer.





Governmental Regulation and Supervision



Our business is affected by a variety of laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. See Risks Related to Our Business in Item 1A.



We operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its agencies, such as the U.S. Navy's Supervisor of Shipbuilding, the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA") and the Defense Contract Management Agency ("DCMA"). These agencies review our contract performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. Systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems and management information systems. Any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed by a government customer or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties as well as administrative sanctions,









which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, and prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government.



The U.S. Government has the ability, pursuant to regulations relating to contractor business systems, to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more such systems. The U.S. Government has, in certain instances, withheld payments on contracts subject to these regulations upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. We are modifying our affected business systems to address the U.S. Government's concerns.



In addition, the U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In the event of termination for the government's convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions that provide for reimbursement of costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not for the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. Termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts.



In 2009, Congress passed legislation to improve the organization and procedures of the DoD for the acquisition of major weapons systems, including shipbuilding and maritime systems. This legislation, the Weapon System Acquisition Reform Act of 2009, requires the DoD to develop mechanisms to address cost, schedule and performance in establishing program requirements. As acquisition reform progresses, we will continue to monitor the actions of the Pentagon and Congress to determine their impact on our operations and respond appropriately.



Government contractors must comply with a significant volume of procurement regulations and other requirements. Contracting with the U.S. Government may result in our filing of Requests for Equitable Adjustments ("REAs"), which represent requests for the U.S. Government to make appropriate adjustments to terms of a contract, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the U.S. Government is responsible. REAs are prepared, submitted and negotiated in the ordinary course of business, and large REAs are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and RCOH activities. Such REAs are not considered claims under the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations to resolve the REAs are not satisfactory.



In cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of U.S. Navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. In evaluating proposed prices, the U.S. Navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion and anticipated profit margins in order to assess cost realism. The U.S. Navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. Under U.S. Government regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs and, therefore, are not recoverable. The U.S. Government also regulates the methods by which all costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts.



Our contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to additional procurement regulations that include, but are not limited to, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the False Claims Act, Cost Accounting Standards, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A noncompliance determination by any one agency may result in fines, penalties, or debarment or suspension from contracting with all U.S. Government agencies.





Competition



We primarily compete with General Dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which may team with a large defense contractor. Intense competition related to programs, resources and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. It is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. It is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries.











We believe we are well-positioned in the market. Because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling and defueling the U.S. Navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. Even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. In this regard, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 ("2012 Act") required DoD to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 ("2013 Act") modified the 2012 Act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. The 2013 Act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. Similarly, the 2013 Act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was found in previous law.



We are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships for the U.S. Navy, including LHAs and LPDs, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. We are also the sole supplier of NSCs for the U.S. Coast Guard, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. We are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the U.S. Navy and one of only two companies that builds the U.S. Navy's current fleet of DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyers. We are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well.



Our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market and produce our products and services at a cost consistent with the U.S. Navy's budget, as well as our ability to provide the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency.





Environmental, Health and Safety



Our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We accrue the estimated costs to complete environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a Potentially Responsible Party ("PRP") by the U.S.Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. The inherent difficulties in estimating future environmental remediation costs, resulting from uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations, can cause our estimated costs to change.



We assess the potential impact on our financial statements of future environmental remediation costs by estimating, on a site-by-site basis, the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur, taking into account currently available information at each site, the current state of technology and our prior experience in remediating contaminated sites. We review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts, technology and legal circumstances. We record accruals for environmental remediation costs on an undiscounted basis in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We record related insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable, and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual.



We expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. Capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in current operating facilities. We record environmental remediation accruals at sites involving multiple parties based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. We may incur remediation costs exceeding our accrued amount if other PRPs do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



As ofDecember 31, 2013, our probable future costs for environmental remediation were approximately$2 million, which is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. Although information gained as projects progress may materially affect our accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.











We may incur environmental costs in the future related to our wind down of military shipbuilding at Avondale. These costs are not reasonably estimable at this time, however, due to insufficient information about the nature, timing and extent of any potential environmental remediation we may be required to perform or the related costs that we may incur. Accordingly, potential environmental costs associated with the wind down of Avondale are not included in our$2 millionaccrual for environmental remediation costs or our$256 millionestimate of Avondale asset write-downs and restructuring costs, or otherwise reflected in our consolidated financial statements. We expect that a significant portion of any future environmental remediation costs we incur at Avondale would be recoverable, consistent with government accounting practices, under the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR").



We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. We could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as "green initiatives." We have made the investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental laws. We expect, however, to incur capital and operating costs in the future to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. At this time, however, we do not believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



With regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry involves work with hazardous materials and processes, and remains one of the most hazardous industry segments. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (NAICS 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. We have experienced three industrial related fatalities in the past seven years.We strive to keep our Occupational Safety & Health Administration ("OSHA") compliance programs strong. In 1995, our Newport News shipyard became the first shipyard to be awarded the Star Award from OSHA's Voluntary Protection Program ("OSHA VPP"). To earn this award, we joined efforts with our unions and supported participation in the OSHA VPP, in which all parties assist each other to make our shipyard a safer place to work. Since then, our Gulfport, Mississippi, and CMSD facilities have also been certified as OSHA VPP Star Sites.



The U.S. Navy, Nuclear Regulatory Commission and DoE regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. Subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the U.S. Navy and DoE generally provide for indemnity by the U.S. Government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. For our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators.





Employees



We have approximately38,000employees. We are the largest industrial employer in Virginia and the largest private employer in Mississippi. Our workforce contains many third-, fourth- and fifth-generation shipbuilding employees. We employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, approximately 5,000 engineers and designers and approximately 2,400 employees with advanced degrees. Employees who have been with us or our predecessor companies for over 40 years achieve the title of Master Shipbuilder. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately 1,100 Master Shipbuilders, approximately 850 at Newport News and approximately 250 at Ingalls. We employ more than 5,500 veterans.



Our Newport News Apprentice School trains approximately 800 apprentices each year in 19 crafts and trades and several advanced programs. Our Ingalls Apprentice School currently has approximately 300 registered apprentices in its programs. Apprentices are paid as full-time employees for the duration of their studies and usually continue to work with us upon graduation. From nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, approximately 2,900 alumni of the Apprentice School at Newport News and approximately 1,900 alumni of our Ingalls Apprentice School continue to work with us.



Approximately50%of our approximately38,000employees are covered by a total ofninecollective bargaining agreements. Newport News has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in April 2014, June 2014 and July 2017. Ingalls has six collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, five of which cover Pascagoula and Gulfport employees and one of which covers Avondale employees. The five Pascagoula/Gulfport collective bargaining agreements expire in March 2015. The Avondale collective bargaining agreement was indefinitely extended upon its last expiration. We believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory.













Available Information



Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). You can learn more about us by reviewing our SEC filings on the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com.



Our SEC filings are also available at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.



The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about SEC registrants, including us.





Executive Officers of the Registrant



See Executive Officers of the Registrant in Item 4A for information about our executive officers.





Forward-Looking Statements



Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, as well as other statements we may make from time to time, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. Factors that may cause such differences include:



•changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans);

•our ability to obtain new contracts, estimate our future contract costs and perform our contracts effectively;

•changes in government regulations and procurement processes and our ability to comply with such requirements;

•our ability to realize the expected benefits from consolidation of our Ingalls facilities;

•natural disasters;

•adverse economic conditions in the United States and globally;

•risks related to our indebtedness and leverage; and

•other risk factors discussed herein and in our filings with the SEC.



There may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements that we may make.













