ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Spin-Off

On March 31, 2011, Northrop Grumman Corporation (“Northrop
Grumman”) completed the spin-off of Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. (herein referred to as “HII”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our” and, as the context requires, including our predecessor
business as a subsidiary of Northrop Grumman) from Northrop Grumman, following which we became an independent, publicly-owned company. To complete the spin-off, Northrop Grumman distributed to its stockholders of record on March 30, 2011, the
record date for the distribution, all shares of our common stock held by Northrop Grumman. Northrop Grumman stockholders received one share of HII common stock for every six shares of Northrop Grumman common stock they held.

As an independent, publicly-owned company, we own and operate the legacy Northrop Grumman shipbuilding business. We entered into a series of agreements
with Northrop Grumman, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement and other agreements, which govern the relationship between us and Northrop Grumman subsequent to the spin-off and provide for the allocation between Northrop Grumman and us
of various assets, liabilities and obligations, including employee benefits, intellectual property, insurance and tax related assets and liabilities.

History and Organization

For more than a century, we have been designing, building,
overhauling and repairing ships primarily for the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Coast Guard. We build more ships, in more ship types and classes, than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder. We are the nation’s sole industrial designer, builder and refueler
of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, the sole supplier and builder of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships to the U.S. Navy, the sole builder of National Security Cutters for the U.S. Coast Guard, one of only two companies currently
designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the U.S. Navy and one of only two companies that builds the U.S. Navy’s current fleet of DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyers. We are the exclusive provider of Refueling and Complex
Overhaul (“RCOH”) services for nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, a full-service systems provider for the design, engineering, construction and life cycle support of major programs for surface ships and a provider of fleet support and
maintenance services for the U.S. Navy.

Our primary areas of business include the design, construction, repair and maintenance of
nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants, expeditionary warfare/amphibious assault and coastal defense surface ships, as well as the overhaul and refueling of nuclear-powered
ships. We operate our shipbuilding business through our Huntington Ingalls Incorporated subsidiary, which is organized into two segments: Newport News Shipbuilding (“Newport News”), which includes all of our nuclear ship design,
construction, overhaul, refueling and repair and maintenance businesses; and Ingalls Shipbuilding (“Ingalls”), which includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair and maintenance businesses.

Our three major shipyards are currently located in Newport News, Virginia, Pascagoula, Mississippi and Avondale, Louisiana. We currently intend to wind
down our construction activities at our Avondale shipyard in 2013 and consolidate Ingalls construction into our Mississippi facilities. We believe that consolidation in Pascagoula will allow us to realize the benefits of serial production, reduce
program costs on existing contracts, and make future vessels more affordable by reducing overhead rates, thereby making us more competitive on future U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard contracts. We are exploring the potential for alternative uses of
the Avondale facility, including alternative opportunities for the workforce there. For a more detailed discussion of the costs that we expect to incur in connection with the wind down of our Avondale shipyard, see Risk Factors in Item 1A.

We conduct substantially all of our business with the U.S. Government, principally the Department of Defense (“DoD”). As prime
contractor, principal subcontractor, team member or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense technology programs. With our product capabilities, heavy industrial facilities and a workforce of approximately 38,000 employees, we
believe we are positioned to continue to support the long-term objectives of the U.S. Navy to adapt and respond to a complex, uncertain and rapidly changing national security environment.

Newport News

The capabilities of our Newport News operations extend from our core nuclear
business of designing and constructing nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and the refueling and overhaul of such ships, to our







secondary businesses that are focused on the construction of heavy manufacturing equipment for commercial nuclear power facilities and the operations, management and cleanup of environmental
hazard sites through Department of Energy (“DoE”) cleanup programs. Our Newport News shipyard is one of the largest shipyards in the United States. Our facilities are located on approximately 550 acres on the mouth of the James River,
which adjoins the Chesapeake Bay. The shipyard has two miles of waterfront property and heavy industrial facilities that include seven graving docks, a floating dry dock, two outfitting berths, five outfitting piers, a module outfitting facility and
various other workshops. Our Newport News shipyard also has a 2,170-foot dry dock and a 1,050-ton gantry crane capable of servicing two aircraft carriers at one time.

Design, Construction and Refueling and Complex Overhaul (“RCOH”) of Aircraft Carriers

Engineering, design and construction of U.S. Navy nuclear aircraft carriers are core to our operations. Aircraft carriers are the largest ships in the U.S. Navy’s fleet, with a weight
displacement of about 90,000 tons. Since 1933, Newport News has delivered 30 aircraft carriers to the U.S. Navy, including all 11 ships currently in active service.

The U.S. Navy’s newest carrier and the last of the CVN-68Nimitz-class, CVN-77 USSGeorge H.W. Bush, was delivered on May 11, 2009. We have been engaged in design work on the
next generation aircraft carrier, the CVN-78Gerald R. Ford-class, for over nine years. In 2008, we were awarded a $5.1 billion contract for detail design and construction of the first ship of the class, CVN-78Gerald R. Ford, which is
scheduled for delivery in 2015. We subsequently received awards in 2009, 2010 and 2011 under a construction preparation contract totaling $1.1 billion for the second CVN-78Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carrier, the CVN-79John F.
Kennedy. This four-year contract includes design efforts, planning, procurement of long-lead-time materials, and limited fabrication as well as continued research and development efforts with key suppliers.

We continue to be the exclusive prime contractor for nuclear carrier RCOHs. Each RCOH takes over three years to complete and accounts for approximately
35% of all maintenance and modernization in the service life of an aircraft carrier. RCOH services include propulsion (refueling of reactors, propulsion plant modernization and propulsion plant repairs), restoration of service life (dry docking,
tank and void maintenance; hull shafting, propellers, rudders; piping repairs, replacement and upgrades; electrical systems upgrades; aviation capabilities) and modernization (warfare, interoperability and environmental compliance). We provide
ongoing maintenance services for the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through both RCOH and repair work. We expect to redeliver CVN-71 USSTheodore Rooseveltto the U.S. Navy following its RCOH in 2013.

In 2010, we were awarded a $678 million planning contract (an initial award of $79 million with two one-year options) for the RCOH of the CVN-72 USSAbraham Lincoln. In 2011, the U.S. Navy exercised the first option for $207 million. We believe that our position as the exclusive designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, as well as the fact that this work requires a highly
trained workforce, is capital-intensive and has high barriers to entry due to its nuclear requirements, strongly positions us as the frontrunner for the award of future RCOH contracts on the current and future fleet of U.S. Navy carriers.

Aircraft Carrier Inactivation

Aircraft carriers have a lifespan of approximately 50 years, and we believe the 11 carriers delivered by us that are currently in active service, as well as those we will deliver in the future, present a
significant opportunity for us with respect to their inactivation. We anticipate that in 2013 the U.S. Navy will contract with us, through our Newport News shipyard, to inactivate the CVN-65 USSEnterprise, the world’s first
nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which was built by us and commissioned in 1961. We have constructed the facility to perform this work at our Newport News shipyard. Additionally, as other aircraft carriers in the naval fleet age, we believe that
the U.S. Navy will require inactivation of those ships, and we plan to be positioned as the best choice for the U.S. Navy to award that work. We expect each contract for an aircraft carrier inactivation to be valued at over $650 million.

Design and Construction of Nuclear-Powered Submarines

We are one of only two companies in the United States capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the U.S. Navy. Since 1960, Newport News has delivered 57 submarines to the U.S. Navy,
comprised of 43 fast attack and 14 ballistic missile submarines. Of the 54 nuclear-powered fast attack submarines currently in active service, 26 were delivered by Newport News. Our nuclear submarine program, located at our Newport News shipyard,
includes construction, engineering, design, research and integrated planning. In February 1997, we executed a teaming agreement with Electric Boat, a division of General Dynamics, to build SSN-774Virginia-class fast attack nuclear submarines
cooperatively. Under







the present arrangement, we build the stern, habitability and machinery spaces, torpedo room, sail and bow, while Electric Boat builds the engine room and control room. Work on the reactor plant
and the final assembly, test, outfit and delivery of the submarine alternate between Electric Boat and us. The four submarines of the first block and the first four submarines of the second block of SSN-774Virginia-class submarines have been
delivered. Construction on the remaining two submarines of the second block is underway, with the last submarine scheduled for delivery in 2013. In December 2008, the team was awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight SSN-774Virginia-class submarines. The multi-year contract increased construction from one per year to two submarines per year from 2011 to 2013. The fiscal year 2012 Omnibus Appropriations Act included funding for twoVirginia-class
submarines per year. The eighth submarine to be procured under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019.

SSBN(X)Ohio-Class Replacement Program

Ohio

Ohio

Ohio

Ohio

Ohio

Ohio

Energy

Our DoE and commercial
nuclear programs leverage our core competencies in nuclear operations, program management and heavy manufacturing. We selectively partner with experienced industry leaders, and we are a participant in one active joint venture. We are also able,
through our subsidiary Newport News Industrial Corporation (“NNI”), to provide a range of services to the energy and petrochemical industries as well as government customers.

Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC (“SRNS”)

In January 2008, SRNS, our
joint venture with Fluor Corporation and Honeywell International Inc., was awarded a five-year $4 billion contract for site management and operations of the DoE’s Savannah River Site located 12 miles south of Aiken, South Carolina. Work at the
site includes management of a national laboratory and the cleanup of nuclear waste, both newly generated and backlogged and legacy wastes that exist at various facilities throughout the Savannah River Site. As part of the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009, SRNS was awarded a stimulus contract of $1.4 billion to deactivate and remediate several reactors and sites at the Savannah River Site. We have a 34% ownership stake in SRNS.

AREVA Newport News, LLC (“AREVA Newport News”)

In October 2008, we announced the formation of a joint venture, AREVA Newport News, with AREVA NP to build a new manufacturing facility in Newport News, Virginia to supply heavy components to the civilian
nuclear electrical power sector. AREVA Newport News plans to construct a production facility for the manufacture of heavy commercial nuclear power plant components. We are minority owners of AREVA Newport News.

Newport News Industrial Corporation (“NNI”)

NNI provides a range of support services to operating commercial nuclear power plants. In the 45 years since it was founded, NNI has expanded its capabilities, continuing to provide support for
nuclear energy facilities, as well as for fossil power







plants and other industrial facilities. NNI focuses on fabrication services, construction services, equipment services, technical services and product sales to its customers, which include both
private industry as well as government entities such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (“NASA”), the DoE and the DoD.

Ingalls

Through our Ingalls operations, we design and construct non-nuclear ships for the
U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard, including amphibious assault ships, surface combatants and National Security Cutters. We are the sole supplier of amphibious assault ships to the U.S. Navy and built 28 of the 62-ship DDG-51Arleigh
Burke-class of Aegis guided missile destroyers in active service. We are also the sole supplier of the large multi-mission National Security Cutters for the U.S. Coast Guard. Our Ingalls shipbuilding sites are located in Pascagoula,
Mississippi, Gulfport, Mississippi, and Avondale, Louisiana. We intend to wind down our construction activities at Avondale in 2013 and consolidate all Ingalls construction into our Mississippi facilities. During 2011, we closed and terminated our
lease on a components facility in Tallulah, Louisiana and ceased significant operations at a facility in Waggaman, Louisiana. We are exploring alternative uses of the Avondale facility, including alternative opportunities for our workforce. Our
various Ingalls facilities offer a collection of manufacturing capabilities such as a 660-ton gantry crane, a shipbuilding facility focused on composite research and engineering and a Land Based Test Facility.

Amphibious Assault Ships

We are
the sole provider of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships to the U.S. Navy. Those ships include the U.S. Navy large deck amphibious ships (“LHA”), amphibious transport dock ships (“LPD”) and multi-purpose amphibious
assault ships (“LHD”). The LHA is a key component of the U.S. Navy-Marine Corps requirement for 11 Expeditionary Strike Groups/Amphibious Readiness Groups, and design, construction and modernization of LHAs are core to our Ingalls
operations. In 2009, construction of LHD-1Wasp-class multipurpose amphibious assault ships concluded with the delivery of LHD-8 USSMakin Island. In 2007, we were awarded the construction contract for LHA-6America, the first
in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships designed from the keel up to be an aviation optimized Marine assault platform. The first ship of the LHA-6America-class is currently under construction, and we expect to deliver it in 2013.
We are currently procuring long-lead-time material for LHA-7 under a contract awarded in 2010. The balance of funding for LHA-7 was included in the fiscal year 2012 Omnibus Appropriations Act.

The LPD program is one of two Ingalls long-run production programs, where we have an opportunity to take advantage of cost reductions resulting from
ship-over-ship learning. We are currently constructing four LPD-17San Antonio-class amphibious transport dock ships: LPD-24Arlingtonscheduled for delivery in 2012, and LPD-26John P. Murthascheduled for delivery in 2016, in
our Pascagoula, Mississippi shipyard, and LPD-23Anchoragescheduled for delivery in 2012, and LPD-25Somersetscheduled for delivery in 2013, in our Avondale shipyard. We delivered LPD-22San Diegoin 2011. Long-lead-time
material contract work for LPD-27 (unnamed) was awarded to us in October 2010, and funding to construct LPD-27 was included in the fiscal year 2012 Omnibus Appropriations Act. We intend to construct LPD-27 in our Pascagoula, Mississippi facility.

As we complete work on LPD-23Anchorageand LPD-25Somerset, we intend to wind down our construction activities at Avondale in
2013 and consolidate all Ingalls construction in our Mississippi facilities. During 2011, we closed and terminated the lease on a components facility in Tallulah, Louisiana and ceased significant operations at a facility in Waggaman, Louisiana. We
believe that this consolidation will decrease our Ingalls shipbuilding fixed overhead expenses, provide improved facility utilization and a more cost-efficient construction process, centralize our shipbuilding learning and increase the benefits of
serial production. We believe that consolidation of operations in Pascagoula and Gulfport will reduce program costs on existing contracts and make future vessels more affordable, thereby enhancing our competitive positions.

Surface Combatants

We are a
design agent for and one of only two companies that constructs the DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyers as well as major components for the DDG-1000Zumwalt-class of land attack destroyers. We have delivered 28 DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyers to the U.S. Navy, including DDG-107 USSGravelyin July 2010 and DDG-110William P. Lawrencein February 2011. Our participation in the DDG-1000Zumwalt-class destroyers program includes
detailed design and construction of the ships’ integrated composite deckhouses, as well as portions of the ships’ aft peripheral vertical launch systems. The U.S. Navy expects to build three DDG-1000Zumwalt-class destroyers. We are
currently







constructing the composite superstructure of DDG-1000Zumwaltand DDG-1001Michael Monsoorat our Gulfport, Mississippi shipyard, which focuses on composite research, engineering
and construction. We are currently procuring long-lead-time material for the DDG-1002 under a contract awarded in 2011.

The U.S. Navy has
decided to restart the DDG-51Arleigh Burke-class destroyer production line and truncate the DDG-1000Zumwalt-class program. As a result, we are currently under contract to construct DDG-113John Finnscheduled for delivery in
2016, and were recently awarded a construction contract for DDG-114Ralph Johnsonscheduled for delivery in 2017.

National
Security Cutter (“NSC”)

The U.S. Coast Guard’s Deepwater Modernization Program is designed to replace aging and
operationally expensive ships and aircraft used to conduct missions in excess of 50 miles from the shoreline. The flagship of this program is the NSC, a multi-mission platform designed and built by us. The U.S. Coast Guard ordered the first three
NSC vessels from Integrated Coast Guard Systems (“ICGS”), a joint venture between Lockheed Martin and us, pursuant to an Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) contract for the Deepwater Modernization Program. The first
National Security Cutter, NSC-1 USCGCBertholf, was delivered to the U.S. Coast Guard in 2008, followed by NSC-2 USCGCWaeschein 2009 and NSC-3 USCGCStrattonin 2011. The construction contract for NSC-4Hamiltonwas
awarded directly to Ingalls in November 2010, and construction began in 2011. The construction contract for NSC-5 was awarded directly to Ingalls in September 2011. The fiscal year 2012 Homeland Security Appropriations Act includes funding to
procure long-lead-time material for NSC-6.

Fleet Support: AMSEC and Continental Maritime of San Diego (“CMSD”)

Fleet support provides comprehensive life cycle services, including depot maintenance, modernization, repairs, logistics and technical
support and planning yard services for naval and commercial vessels through our AMSEC and CMSD subsidiaries. We have ship repair facilities in Newport News, Virginia, and San Diego, California, which are near the U.S. Navy’s largest homeports
of Norfolk, Virginia and San Diego, respectively. AMSEC provides naval architecture and marine engineering, ship system assessments, maintenance engineering and logistics services to the U.S. Navy and commercial maritime industry from 28 locations
nationwide and overseas. On any given day, over 600 of our AMSEC employees are on board U.S. Navy ships, assessing equipment conditions, modernizing systems and training sailors. Through CMSD, a Master Ship Repair Contractor, we provide ship repair,
regular overhaul and selected restricted availability services (pier side or in customer’s dry docks) for the U.S. Navy. We also perform emergent repair for the U.S. Navy on all classes of ships.

Corporate

Huntington Ingalls
Industries, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware on August 4, 2010. Our principal executive offices are located at 4101 Washington Avenue, Newport News, Virginia 23607. Our telephone number is (757) 380-2000, and our home page on the Internet
iswww.huntingtoningalls.com. References to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the
website. Accordingly, such information should not be considered part of this report.

Summary Segment Financial Data

For a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see Segment Operating Results in Item 7 and Note 6: Segment Information in
Item 8.

Customers

Revenues from the U.S. Government accounted for substantially all of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009. In 2011, approximately 97% of our revenues
were generated from the U.S. Navy and approximately 3% were generated from the U.S. Coast Guard.

Intellectual Property

With more than 5,100 engineers and designers, we develop and incorporate into our vessels new technologies, manufacturing processes and
systems-integration practices. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. Government holds licenses to our patents developed in







the performance of U.S. Government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by our patents. While our intellectual property rights are important to the
operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business.

Seasonality

No material portion of our
business is seasonal. The timing of our revenue recognition is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. See Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and
Judgments—Revenue Recognition in Item 7.

Backlog

At December 31, 2011, our total backlog was $16.3 billion compared with $17.3 billion at the end of 2010. Approximately 33% of backlog at December 31, 2011, is expected to be converted into
sales in 2012.

Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and
unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded IDIQ orders. For contracts having no stated contract values, backlog
includes only the amounts committed by the customer. Backlog is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. For backlog by segment, see Backlog in Item 7.

Raw Materials

The most significant raw material we use is steel. Other materials used in
large quantities include paint, aluminum, pipe, electrical cable and fittings. All of these materials are currently available in adequate supply. In connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component
parts from supply sources approved by the U.S. Government. Generally, for all of our long-term contracts, we obtain price quotations for many of our materials requirements from multiple suppliers to ensure competitive pricing. We have not generally
been dependent upon any one supply source; however, due largely to the consolidation of the defense industry, there are currently several components for which there is only one supplier. We believe that these single source suppliers, as well as our
overall supplier base, are adequate to meet our future needs. We have mitigated some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a number of raw material suppliers. In addition, we have mitigated price risk related to raw material purchases
through certain arrangements included in our customer contracts.

Research and Development

To foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct research and development activities as part of our normal business operations. Our
research and development activities primarily include Independent Research and Development (“IR&D”) efforts related to government programs. In accordance with U.S Government regulations, we recover a significant portion of our IR&D
expenditures through overhead charges to U.S. Government contracts. We include IR&D expenses in general and administrative expenses. Company-sponsored IR&D expenses totaled $24 million, $23 million and $21 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

At our Virginia Advanced Shipbuilding and Carrier Integration Center facility
(“VASCIC”), located in Newport News, Virginia, we conduct on-site warfare systems testing, training and laboratory research for the next generation aircraft carriers, submarines and other ships. VASCIC serves as the focal point for the
integration of ship systems and the application of new technologies. It has a classified facility and an integration area that allows for research and development related to setup and testing of electronics as well as hull, mechanical and electrical
systems prior to introducing new equipment on board a ship. It also has modeling and simulation capability allowing for visualization using 3-D displays. We believe VASCIC benefits the U.S. Navy and represents a competitive advantage for us by
developing future naval capabilities, reducing total ownership cost and facilitating technology transfer.







Governmental Regulation and Supervision

Our business is affected by a variety of laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. See Risks Related to Our Business in
Item 1A.

In addition, the U.S. Government generally
has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In the event of termination for the government’s convenience, contractors are normally protected
by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs, but not for the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. Termination resulting from our default could expose
us to various liabilities, including, but not limited to, excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts.

In 2009, Congress passed legislation to improve the organization and procedures of the DoD for the acquisition of major weapons systems, including shipbuilding and maritime systems. This legislation, the
Weapon System Acquisition Reform Act of 2009, requires the DoD to develop mechanisms to address cost, schedule and performance in establishing program requirements. As acquisition reform progresses, we will continue to anticipate and respond to the
actions of the Pentagon and Congress to determine their impact on our operations.

Government contractors must comply with a significant
volume of procurement regulations and other requirements. Contracting with the U.S. Government may result in our filing of Requests for Equitable Adjustments (“REAs”), which represent requests for the U.S. Government to make appropriate
adjustments to terms of a contract including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the
U.S. Government is responsible. REAs are prepared, submitted and negotiated in the ordinary course of business, and large REAs are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and overhaul activities. Such REAs are not considered claims
under the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations are unproductive.

In cases
where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of U.S. Navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. In evaluating proposed prices, the U.S. Navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit
information on pricing, estimated costs of completion and anticipated profit margins in order to assess cost realism. The U.S. Navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. Under U.S. Government
regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs. The U.S. Government also regulates the methods by which all costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts.

Our contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to additional
procurement regulations that include, but are not limited to, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the False Claims Act, Cost Accounting Standards, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms
Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Noncompliance found by any one agency may result in fines, penalties, debarment or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S.
Government agencies.







Competition

We primarily compete with General Dynamics and to a lesser extent with smaller shipyards, one or more of whom may be teamed with a large defense contractor. Intense competition related to programs,
resources and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. It is common in this industry to share work on major programs among a number of companies. A company
competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. It is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform
as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many
industries.

Arleigh Burke

Our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market and produce our products and services at a cost consistent
with the U.S. Navy’s budget, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency.

Environmental, Health and Safety

Our
manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We accrue the estimated costs to complete environmental remediation when we determine it is probable
that we will incur such costs in the future in amounts we can reasonably estimate to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a Potentially Responsible Party
(“PRP”) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) or similarly designated by another environmental agency. These estimates may change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be
incurred in the future caused by the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations and their interpretations.

We assess the potential impact on our financial statements by estimating the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur on a
site-by-site basis, taking into account currently available facts on each site as well as the current state of technology and prior experience in remediating contaminated sites. We review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes
in facts and technical and legal circumstances. We record accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We record insurance
recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual.

We estimate that, as of December 31, 2011, the probable future costs for environmental remediation is approximately $3 million, which is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated
statement of financial position. We record environmental accruals on an undiscounted basis. At sites involving multiple parties, we provide environmental accruals based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial
viability of other jointly liable parties. We expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. Capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. We may have to incur costs exceeding those
already estimated and accrued if other PRPs do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have made the investments we believe
are necessary to comply with environmental







laws. Although we cannot predict whether information gained as projects progress will materially affect the estimated accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures
will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

We may incur environmental costs in the future
related to the wind down of our construction activities at Avondale. Due to insufficient information about the nature, timing and extent of any potential environmental remediation and costs that we may incur, these costs are not reasonably estimable
at this time. Accordingly, potential environmental costs associated with the wind down of our construction activities at Avondale are not included in the estimated $3 million of probable future costs for environmental remediation, in the $271
million estimate of Avondale asset write-downs and restructuring related costs, or otherwise reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Based on the Federal Acquisition Regulations (“FAR”), we expect that a significant portion of
any potential future environmental costs we incur at Avondale would be recoverable consistent with government accounting practices.

We
believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. We could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those
enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as “green initiatives”. We expect to incur capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. At this time, however, we
do not believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

With regard to
occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry involves work with many hazardous materials and processes, and remains one of the most hazardous industry segments. According to the Bureau of Labor statistics, the
shipbuilding and ship repair industry (NAICS 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. Nevertheless, in terms of serious injuries at our operations, there have been five industrial related fatalities in the past seven years. Our
internal audit program seeks to ensure that our Occupational Safety & Health Administration (“OSHA”) compliance programs remain strong. In 1995, our Newport News shipyard became the first shipyard to be awarded the Star Award from
OSHA’s Voluntary Protection Program (“OSHA VPP”). To earn this award, we joined efforts with our unions and supported participation in the OSHA VPP, in which all parties assist each other to make our shipyard a safer place to work.
Since then, our Gulfport, Mississippi and Continental Maritime of San Diego, California facilities have also been certified as OSHA VPP Star Sites. Additionally, our Avondale facility has been certified as an OSHA VPP Merit Site.

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the DoE and the DoD regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. Subject to certain
requirements and limitations, our government contracts generally provide for indemnity by the U.S. Government for costs resulting from our nuclear operations.

Employees

We have approximately 38,000 employees. We are the largest industrial
employer in Virginia and the largest private employer in Mississippi. Our workforce contains many third-, fourth- and fifth-generation shipbuilding employees. We employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, including more than 5,100
engineers and designers and more than 1,600 employees with advanced degrees. Employees who have been with us or our predecessor companies for over 40 years achieve the title of Master Shipbuilder. As of December 31, 2011, we had 975
Master Shipbuilders, 676 in Newport News and 299 at Ingalls. We employ nearly 5,500 veterans.

Our Newport News Apprentice School trains
approximately 750 apprentices each year in 19 crafts and trades and several advanced programs. Our Ingalls Apprentice School currently has approximately 362 registered apprentices in its programs. Apprentices are paid as full-time employees for the
duration of their studies, and usually continue to work with us upon graduation. From nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, approximately 2,850 alumni of the Apprentice School at Newport News and approximately 1,890 alumni of our Ingalls
Apprentice School continue to work with us.

Approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of 10 collective bargaining agreements.
We expect to renegotiate each of our collective bargaining agreements between 2013 and 2015 as they approach expiration. We do not expect the results of these negotiations to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows. We believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory.

Available Information

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those
reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file







them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You can learn more about us by reviewing our SEC filings in the investor relations page on our website atwww.huntingtoningalls.com.

The SEC also maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy statements and other
information about SEC registrants, including us.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

See Executive Officers of the Registrant in Item 4A for information about our executive officers.

Forward-Looking Statements

Statements
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than statements of historical fact, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve
risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. Factors that may cause such differences include:



•changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in
customer short-range and long-range plans);



•our ability to obtain new contracts, estimate our costs and perform effectively;



•risks related to our spin-off from Northrop Grumman (including our increased costs and leverage);



•our ability to realize the expected benefits from consolidation of our Ingalls facilities;



•natural disasters;



•adverse economic conditions in the United States and globally; and



•other risk factors discussed herein and in our filings with the SEC.

There may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligations
to update any forward-looking statements.







