Item 1. Business.



Overview

Zoetis Inc. is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of animal health medicines and vaccines, with a focus on both livestock and companion animals. We market a diverse range of products across four regions: the United States, Europe/Africa/Middle East, Canada/Latin America and Asia/Pacific; eight core species: the livestock species of cattle, swine, poultry, sheep and fish, and the companion animal species of dogs, cats and horses; and five major product categories: anti-infectives, vaccines, parasiticides, medicated feed additives and other pharmaceutical products. For more than 60 years, as a business unit of Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer), and now as an independent public company, we have been committed to enhancing the health of animals and bringing solutions to our customers who raise and care for them.

We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2012. The address of our principal executive offices is 100 Campus Drive, Florham Park, New Jersey 07932. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Zoetis,” “the company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 (2013 Annual Report) refer to Zoetis Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. In addition, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer” in this 2013 Annual Report refer to Pfizer Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. Unless the context requires otherwise, statements relating to our history, for periods prior to the initial public offering (IPO), describe the history of Pfizer’s animal health business unit, although it is important to note that the net assets, operations and cash flows of Zoetis are not the same as the historical net assets, operations and cash flows of Pfizer's animal health operating segment.

On February 1, 2013, our Class A common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “ZTS.” On February 6, 2013, an IPO of our Class A common stock was completed, which represented approximately 19.8% of our total outstanding shares. Prior to and in connection with the IPO, we completed a $3.65 billion senior notes offering (senior notes offering) and Pfizer transferred to us substantially all of the assets and liabilities of their animal health business. We did not receive any of the proceeds from the IPO. We paid an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds that we received in the senior notes offering to Pfizer prior to the completion of the IPO. In addition, immediately prior to the completion of the IPO, we and Pfizer entered into certain agreements that provide a framework for our ongoing relationship with Pfizer. On June 24, 2013, an exchange offer was completed, whereby Pfizer shareholders exchanged a portion of Pfizer common stock for Zoetis common stock, resulting in the full separation of Zoetis and the disposal of Pfizer's entire ownership and voting interest in Zoetis. We refer to the transactions to separate our business from Pfizer, as described here and elsewhere in this 2013 Annual Report, as the “Separation.” For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements—

Note 2. The Separation, Adjustments Associated with the Separation, Senior Notes Offering, Initial Public Offering and Exchange Offer.



Operating Segments

The animal health medicines and vaccines market is characterized by meaningful differences in customer needs across different regions. This is due to a variety of factors, including:

•economic differences, such as standards of living in developed markets as compared to emerging markets;

•cultural differences, such as dietary preferences for different animal proteins, pet ownership preferences and pet care standards;

•epidemiological differences, such as the prevalence of certain bacterial and viral strains and disease dynamics;

•treatment differences, such as utilization of different types of medicines and vaccines, in particular high-technology products;

•environmental differences, such as seasonality, climate and the availability of arable land and fresh water; and

•regulatory differences, such as standards for product approval and manufacturing.

As a result of these differences, among other things, we organize and operate our business in four segments: the United States, Europe/Africa/Middle East, Canada/Latin America and Asia/Pacific. Within each of these operating segments, we offer a diversified product portfolio for both livestock and companion animal customers so that we can capitalize on local trends and customer needs. Our operating segments are:

•United Stateswith revenue of $1,902 million, or42%of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013.

•Europe/Africa/Middle Eastwith revenue of $1,168 million, or25%of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Key developed markets in this segment include France, Germany and the United Kingdom. Key emerging markets in this segment include Russia, South Africa and Turkey.

•Canada/Latin Americawith revenue of $778 million, or17%of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. The developed market in this segment is Canada. Key emerging markets in this segment include Brazil and Mexico.

•Asia/Pacificwith revenue of $713 million, or16%of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Key developed markets in this segment include Australia, Japan and New Zealand. Key emerging markets in this segment include China, India and Thailand.







1|






Our 2013 reported revenue for the U.S. and top ten non-U.S. markets, based on total revenue, is as follows:





USBrazilCanadaAustraliaUKFranceGermanyJapanItalySpainChinaLivestock55%85%61%60%57%65%60%51%62%75%87%Companion Animal45%15%39%40%43%35%40%49%38%25%13%

% of 2013 reported revenue

For additional information regarding our performance in each of these operating segments and the impact of foreign exchange rates, seeManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsand Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements—Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information—Segment Information.



Products

Since the inception of our business, we have focused on developing a broad portfolio of animal health products. We refer to a single product in all brands or its dosage forms for all species as a product line. We have comprehensive product lines for both livestock and companion animals across each of our major product categories.

Our livestock products primarily help prevent or treat diseases and conditions to enable the cost-effective production of safe, high-quality animal protein. Human population growth and increasing standards of living are important long-term growth drivers for our livestock products in three major ways. First, population growth and increasing standards of living drive increased demand for improved nutrition, particularly animal protein. Second, population growth leads to increased natural resource constraints driving a need for enhanced productivity. Finally, as standards of living improve, there is increased focus on food safety. Livestock products represented approximately64%of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013.

Our companion animal products improve the quality of and extend the life of pets, increase convenience and compliance for pet owners and help veterinarians improve the quality of care they provide. Growth in the companion animal medicines and vaccines sector is driven by economic development and related increases in disposable income, increasing pet ownership, companion animals living longer, increasing medical treatment of companion animals and advances in animal health medicines and vaccines. Companion animal products represented approximately36%of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013.

Our major product categories are:

•anti-infectives: products that prevent, kill or slow the growth of bacteria, fungi or protozoa;

•vaccines: biological preparations that help prevent diseases of the respiratory, gastrointestinal and reproductive tracts or induce a specific immune response;

•parasiticides: products that prevent or eliminate external and internal parasites such as fleas, ticks and worms;

•medicated feed additives: products added to animal feed that provide medicines to livestock; and

•other pharmaceutical products: pain and sedation, oncology, antiemetic, allergy and dermatology; and reproductive products.



2|






Our remaining revenue is derived from other product categories, such as nutritionals and agribusiness, as well as products and services in complementary areas, including diagnostics, genetics, devices, dairy data management, e-learning and professional consulting.

As part of our growth strategy, through our R&D group, we focus on both product lifecycle development and new chemical and biological entities. Historically, a substantial portion of our products and revenue has been the result of product lifecycle development. For example, the first product in our ceftiofur line was an anti-infective approved for treating bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in cattle that was administered via intramuscular injection. Through follow-on studies and reformulations, we have expanded the product line into additional cattle claims and administration routes, as well as other species and regions. The ceftiofur product line currently includes the brands Excede, Excenel RTU, Excenel RTU EZ, Excenel, Naxcel and Spectramast.

Examples of our first-in-class and/or best-in-class products that we have launched in the past ten years and products that we believe may represent platforms for future product lifecycle development include:

•Improvac/Improvest/Vivax, a protein product that works like an immunization, is currently the only product that provides a safe and effective alternative to physical castration to manage unpleasant aromas that can occur when cooking pork; launched in Australia and New Zealand in 2004, in Brazil in 2007, in certain European countries beginning in 2008, and in the United States in 2011;

•Convenia, the first single-injection anti-infective for common bacterial skin infections in cats and dogs, launched in 2006;

•Palladia, the first drug to be approved by the FDA for treating cancer in dogs, launched in 2009;

•InforceTM3, the first and only respiratory vaccine for cattle that prevents respiratory disease caused by bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) while also aiding in the prevention of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and parainfluenza3(PI3), launched in 2010; and

•Apoquel, the first Janus kinase inhibitor for use in veterinary medicine, approved for the control of pruritus associated with allergic dermatitis and the control of atopic dermatitis in dogs at least 12 months of age, successfully completed its early experience program in the United States late in 2013, and fully launched in the United States, United Kingdom, Austria and Germany in January 2014; other market launches will follow.

We pursue the development of new vaccines for emerging infectious diseases, with an operating philosophy of “first to know and fast to market.” Examples of the successful execution of this strategy include the first equine vaccine for West Nile virus in the United States and European Union, the first swine vaccine for pandemic H1N1 influenza virus in the United States and the first conditionally licensed vaccine to help reduce disease caused by the Georgia 08 variant of infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) in poultry.

In 2013, our top selling product line, the ceftiofur line, contributed approximately7%of our revenue. The ceftiofur line and our next two top selling products, Revolution and Draxxin, contributed approximately20%of our revenue. Our top ten product lines contributed39%of our revenue. Our product lines and products that represented approximately 1% or more of our revenue in 2013 are as follows:



3|






Livestock products







Product line/ productDescriptionPrimary species



Anti-infectives

Ceftiofur injectable lineBroad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic active against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, including ß-lactamase-producing strains, with some formulations producing a single course of therapy in one injectionCattle, sheep, swine

DraxxinSingle-dose low-volume antibiotic for the treatment and prevention of bovine and swine respiratory disease, infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis and bovine foot rotCattle, swine

SpectramastAids in preventing and treating mastitis, delivered via intramammary administration; same active ingredient as the ceftiofur lineCattle

TerramycinAntibiotic for the treatment of susceptible infectionsCattle, poultry, sheep, swine



Vaccines

Bovishield®lineAids in preventing diseases, including infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) Types 1 and 2, parainfluenza3(PI3), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV),Leptospira borgpetersenii,L. pomona,L. grippotyphosa,L. canicolaandL. icterohaemorrhagiae, depending on formulationCattle

Improvac / Improvest / VivaxReduces boar taint, as an alternative to surgical castrationSwine

RespiSure®lineAids in preventing chronic pneumonia caused byMycoplasma hyopneumoniaeSwine

Rispoval®lineAids in preventing three key viruses involved in cattle pneumonia-BRSV, PI3and BVD-as well as other respiratory diseases, depending on formulationCattle

Suvaxyn®PCV / Fostera™ PCVAids in preventing porcine circovirusSwine



Parasiticides

CydectinInjectable or pour-on endectocide to treat and control internal and external cattle parasites, including gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms, cattle grubs, mites and liceCattle, sheep

DectomaxInjectable or pour-on endectocide, characterized by extended duration of activity, for the treatment and control of internal and external parasite infectionsCattle, swine



Medicated Feed Additives

AureomycinProvides livestock producers control, treatment and convenience against a wide range of respiratory, enteric and reproductive diseasesCattle, poultry, sheep, swine

BMDAids in preventing and controlling enteritis; and increases rate of weight gain and improves feed efficiency in poultry and swinePoultry, swine

Lasalocid lineControls coccidiosis in poultry (Avatec) and cattle (Bovatec) and for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency in cattlePoultry, cattle

Lincomycin lineControls necrotic enteritis, increases rate of weight gain and improves feed efficiency in broiler chickens; treatment of dysentery (bloody scours), control of ileitis, treatment/reduction in severity of mycoplasmal pneumonia, increases weight gain in swineSwine, poultry



Other

Embrex®devicesDevices for enhancing hatchery operations efficiency throughin ovodetection and vaccinationPoultry

LutalyseFor estrus control or in the induction of parturition or abortionCattle, swine

Orbeseal / TeatsealNon-antibiotic intramammary infusion that prevents new intramammary infections in dairy cattleCattle



4|






Companion animal products

Product line/ productDescriptionPrimary speciesAnti-infectivesClavamox / SynuloxA broad-spectrum antibiotic and the first and only potentiated penicillin approved for use in dogs and catsCats, dogsConveniaAnti-infective for the treatment of common bacterial skin infections that provides a course of treatment in a single injectionCats, dogsVaccinesVanguard®L4 (4-way Lepto)Compatible with the Vanguard line and helps protect against leptospirosis caused byLeptospira canicola,L. grippotyphosa,L. icterohaemorrhagiaeandL. pomonaDogsVanguard lineAids in preventing canine distemper caused by canine distemper virus, infectious canine hepatitis caused by canine adenovirus type 1, respiratory disease caused by canine adenovirus type 2, canine parainfluenza caused by canine parainfluenza virus and canine parvoviral enteritis caused by canine parvovirusDogsParasiticidesRevolution / StrongholdAn antiparasitic for protection against fleas, heartworm and ear mites in cats and dogs; canine sarcoptic mites and American ticks for dogs and roundworms and hookworms for catsCats, dogsProHeartAids in preventing heartworm infestationDogsOtherCereniaAn oral or injectable medication that prevents vomiting due to motion sickness in dogsDogsRimadylFor the relief of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and for the control of postoperative pain associated with soft tissue and orthopedic surgeriesDogs



International Operations

We directly market our products in approximately 70 countries across North America, Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia and South America, and our products are sold in more than 120 countries. Operations outside of the United States accounted for58%of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Through our efforts to establish an early and direct presence in many emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and India, emerging markets contributed26%of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013.

Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors— Risks related to our international operations.



Sales and Marketing

Our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. In markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products.

Our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to inform, promote and sell our products and services. Our technical and veterinary operations specialists provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use, and generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees. These direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. Additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. As a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. As of December 31, 2013, our sales organization consisted of approximately3,500employees.

Our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. On a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. We also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners.



Customers

We sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork, poultry and aquaculture operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that typically then sell the products to livestock producers. We primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. Our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 11% and 6%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013, and no other customer represented more than 4% of our revenue for the same period.



5|








Research and Development

Our research and development (R&D) operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine R&D organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development or registration of our products. We spent $399 millionin 2013, $409 millionin 2012 and $427 millionin 2011 on R&D.

While the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product R&D continues to play an important role in our growth strategies, the majority of our R&D investment is focused on product lifecycle development. New product R&D leverages discoveries of agribusiness, academia, and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology R&D organizations. Our product lifecycle development leverages our existing product portfolio to expand our product lines by adding new species or claims, achieving approvals in new countries and creating new combinations and reformulations. Two factors -- the allocation of our R&D investment between product lifecycle development and new product research and development, and our ability to leverage both the discoveries of other industries and of our existing R&D  -- generally leads to a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable R&D process. In addition, our other R&D activities include the development of branded generic products, genetics and diagnostics, as well as biodevices and engineering investments forin ovoapplications.

We prioritize our R&D spending on an annual basis with the goal of alignment of research and business objectives and do not disaggregate our R&D operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. We make our strategic investments in R&D based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. A centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend without a focus on spending by research stage or by therapeutic area. This comprehensive view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency.

Prior to the IPO, we entered into a R&D collaboration and license agreement with Pfizer pursuant to which we will maintain access to Pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to develop new products, subject to certain restrictions. SeeItem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Research and development collaboration and license agreement.In addition, we are pursuing opportunities to enter into collaboration agreements and external alliances with other parties.

As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately1,100employees in our global R&D operations. Our R&D headquarters is located in Kalamazoo, Michigan. We have R&D operations co-located with manufacturing sites in Melbourne, Australia; Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium; Guarulhos, Brazil; Olot, Spain; Charles City, Iowa, U.S. and Lincoln, Nebraska, U.S. We co-locate R&D operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. In addition, we maintain R&D operations in Zaventem, Belgium; São Paulo, Brazil; Mumbai, India; and College Park, Maryland, U.S. and Durham, North Carolina, U.S. As part of the Separation, Pfizer conveyed to us its interest in each of these R&D facilities, with the exception of our Mumbai, India facility, which we expect Pfizer to transfer to us for agreed upon cash consideration, and, in the interim, we lease the facility from Pfizer. SeeItem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Mumbai, India interim lease agreement. Each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents.

Many of our research programs involve an external partnership, often with funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. We are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental direct and indirect expertise in, as well as investment for, such external partnerships. Depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models.



Manufacturing and Supply Chain

Our products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as CMOs. We have a global manufacturing network of28sites, which utilizes centralized oversight of a system of 13 “anchor” and 15 “satellite” manufacturing sites to maximize cost efficiencies.

In connection with the separation from Pfizer (the Separation), 29 manufacturing sites were transferred to us. These 29 sites consisted of all of the sites operated by Pfizer that, immediately prior to the Separation, predominantly manufactured animal health products. SeeItem 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Master manufacturing and supply agreements.

Since the Separation, we have exited the Hannibal, Missouri site and are in the process of exiting the Victoria, British Columbia, Canada site, both of which are leased facilities.



6|






Our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites:

Anchor SitesSatellite SitesSiteLocationSiteLocationCataniaItalyCampinasBrazilCharles CityIowa, U.S.DurhamNorth Carolina, U.S.Chicago HeightsIllinois, U.S.Eagle GroveIowa, U.S.Guarulhos(1)BrazilHsinchuTaiwanHaridwarIndiaLaurinburgNorth Carolina, U.S.Jilin(2)ChinaLongmontColorado, U.S.Kalamazoo(3)Michigan, U.S.MedollaItalyLincolnNebraska, U.S.SalisburyMaryland, U.S.Louvain-la-NeuveBelgiumSan DiegoCalifornia, U.S.MelbourneAustraliaShenzhouChinaOlotSpainVan BurenArkansas, U.S.SuzhouChinaVictoria(4)British Columbia, CanadaWillow IslandWest Virginia, U.S.WellingtonNew ZealandWhite HallIllinois, U.S.YantaiChina

(1)This site is owned by us and leased back to Pfizer, pursuant to an arrangement by which Pfizer operates the manufacturing operations at the site for a period of time. SeeItem 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Brazil lease agreements.

(2)This site is operated by the Jilin Pfizer Guoyuan joint venture.

(3)Prior to the Separation, Pfizer's manufacturing site in Kalamazoo manufactured both human health and animal health products. Since the Separation, we own the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture animal health products and Pfizer owns the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture human health products.

(4)We are in the process of exiting this site as a result of certain product divestitures.

We own all of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in Melbourne, Australia; Medolla, Italy; Van Buren, Arkansas, United States; San Diego, California, United States and Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, which are leased sites.

In addition to our global manufacturing network and our CMOs, Pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at 13 Pfizer sites located in 12 countries pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. Included in these 13 Pfizer sites is our facility in Guarulhos, Brazil, where Pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a period of time. SeeItem 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Master manufacturing and supply agreements.

Our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of CMOs. As of December 31, 2013, this network was comprised of approximately200CMOs, including those centrally managed as well as local CMOs.

We select CMOs based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) capacity; and (iii) financial efficiency analyses.  Our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the CMOs we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality and are regularly audited.

We purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. We utilize distributors as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support.

We intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including Six Sigma and Lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. We have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and CMO sites.



Competition

Although our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines and vaccines industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. Principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers.

Our primary competitors include animal health medicines and vaccines companies such as Merck Animal Health, the animal health division of Merck & Co., Inc. (formerly known as Intervet/Schering-Plough); Merial, the animal health division of Sanofi S.A.; Elanco, the animal health division of Eli Lilly and Company; Bayer Animal Health, the animal health division of Bayer AG; Novartis Animal Health, the animal health division of Novartis AG; and Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health, the animal health division of Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. In addition, we compete with hundreds of other animal health product producers throughout the world.



7|






The level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. For example, the level of generic competition is higher in Europe and certain emerging markets than in the United States. However, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. The reasons for this include the smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. In addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians.

Our livestock products tend to experience lower generic competition than our companion animal products for several reasons:

•livestock producers tend to be loyal to medicines and vaccines that have been demonstrated to be efficacious; as medicines and vaccines are a small portion of a livestock producer's total production costs and ineffective medicines and vaccines could result in the loss of animals, causing disproportionate harm to such producer's investment. Therefore, we believe that livestock producers value brand name medicines and vaccines and are reluctant to try alternatives to methods that have already been proven to be reliably effective;

•in livestock, equally important as the product is the technical support, which  occurs through our veterinary operations support of our products and field force;and

•reliable supply.

The importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. As a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity.



Intellectual Property

Our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate.

Our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 4,900 granted patents and 2,100 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with concentration in our major market countries as well as other countries with strong patent systems, such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe, Japan and the United States. Many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our own and Pfizer's work, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were at least partially developed by, and are licensed to us by, third parties.

Patents for individual products extend for varying periods depending on the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. Several patents cover the ceftiofur product line, including formulation and use patents that begin expiring in the United States in 2015, with others extending until 2024. Draxxin and Convenia are covered by patents in the United States with terms that expire in 2021 and 2023, respectively. The compound patent on doramectin, which is the active ingredient in Dectomax, an antiparasitic, expired in all regions; however, process patents and the injectable formulation patent for this product do not expire in the United States until 2020 and 2016, respectively. The compound patent on selamectin, which is the active ingredient in Revolution, a parasiticide, is expiring in the United States, Canada and Europe during 2014; however, we have process and formulation patents covering this product expiring in 2018 and 2019, respectively.

Additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. We actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement.

In order to facilitate the Separation and allow Pfizer and our operations to continue with minimal interruption, Pfizer has licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. We license to Pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. In addition, Pfizer granted us a transitional license to use certain of Pfizer's trademarks and we granted Pfizer a transitional license to use certain of our trademarks for a period of time following the completion of the IPO.

We seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. We currently maintain more than 10,000 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals.



Regulatory

The sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. To maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. Our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. In the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products.

United States

United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA).The regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the United States is the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM), housed within the FDA. All manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the Federal



8|






Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The FDA's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a Freedom of Information Summary. Post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the CVM's Surveillance and Compliance group. Reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. Additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source.

United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).The regulatory body in the United States for veterinary vaccines is the USDA. The USDA's Center for Veterinary Biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. All manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the Virus Serum Toxin Act. Post-approval monitoring of products is required. Reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements.

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).The main regulatory body in the United States for veterinary pesticides is the EPA. The EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. All manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause “unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment” as stated in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. Within the United States, pesticide products that are approved by the EPA must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. Post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the EPA and some state regulatory agencies.

Outside of the United States

European Union (EU).The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is a decentralized agency of the EU, located in London. The agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by pharmaceutical companies for use in the EU. The agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. The Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products is responsible for scientific review of the submissions for pharmaceuticals and vaccines. The EMA makes the final decision on the approval of products. Once granted by the European Commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all EU and European Economic Area-European Free Trade Association states. A series of Directives, Guidelines and EU Pharmacopeia Monographs provide the requirements for approval in the EU. In general, these requirements are similar to those in the United States, requiring demonstrated evidence of purity, safety, efficacy, and consistency of manufacturing processes.

Brazil.The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Production and Supply (MAPA) is the regulatory body in Brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. MAPA's regulatory activities are conducted through the Secretary of Agricultural Defense and its Livestock Products Inspection Department. In addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the Federal Agriculture Superintendence. These activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. MAPA is one of the most active regulatory agencies in Latin America, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as Codex Alimentarius, World Organization for Animal Health and Committee of Veterinary Medicines for the Americas. MAPA was also invited to be a Latin American representative at International Cooperation on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products (VICH) meetings. Several normative instructions issued by MAPA have set regulatory trends in Latin America.

Australia.

Rest of world.Country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. With the exception of the EU, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the FDA, USDA, EU and other international animal health entities, including the World Organization for Animal Health, Codex Alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines.

Global policy and guidance

Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives.The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO). They provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. We work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. This in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain.



9|






Advertising and promotion review.Promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. These rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. We conduct a review of promotion material for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products.

Food Safety Inspection Service/generally recognized as safe.The FDA is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including “generally recognized as safe” substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. However, although the FDA has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the Food Safety and Inspection Service, the public health agency in the USDA, still retains, under the tenets of the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Products Inspection Act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products.



Employees

As of December 31, 2013, we have more than9,800employees worldwide, which includes approximately4,100employees in the United States and approximately5,700in other jurisdictions. Some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately50union employees in the United States.



Environmental, Health and Safety

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. Due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. These authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions.

Certain environmental laws, such as the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. In addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property.

We have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. In connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2013 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows:

•environmental-related capital expenditures - $0.5 million; and

•other environmental-related expenditures - $9 million

However, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. Such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. This increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products.

In connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. We have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all.

While we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.



Available Information

The company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. On our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Also available on our website is information relating to corporate governance and our Directors at Zoetis, including as follows: our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Zoetis Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our Directors; ways to communicate by email with our Directors; Board Committees; and Committee Charters. We will provide any of the foregoing information



10|






without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Zoetis Inc., 100 Campus Drive, Florham Park, New Jersey 07932. Information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website.

The information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this 2013 Annual Report.



Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012

Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRSHRA) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the Government of Iran or other entities and individuals targeted by certain U.S. sanctions administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). In some instances, ITRSHRA requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under U.S. law or were conducted by a non-U.S. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates.

As a global animal health company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. During 2012, our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, nutritional supplements and other medical products for animals in Iran and Syria. United States law allows us, where required, to seek and rely on licenses issued by OFAC to supply Zoetis animal health products to customers in these countries.  We ship these products pursuant to such licenses, and we conduct our activities in accordance with our internal policies, which follow requirements set forth in the laws of the United States and other applicable jurisdictions. We will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of animals in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our internal policies.

To our knowledge, none of our activities during 2013 are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRSHRA, with the following possible exception:

Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information

, including the tables therein captioned

Selected Statement of Income Information, Geographic Information

and

Other Revenue Information

and in the table captioned

Operating Segment Results

in the MD&A, we do not allocate net profit on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. Zoetis’ net profits attributable to these transactions were a fraction of the gross revenue.

We have informed our customers that in connection with future transactions with Zoetis, Bank Tejarat, and any other banks designated as Specially Designated Nationals under Executive Order 13382 or subsequent executive orders are not to be used.



11|








