Item 1. Business.



Overview

Zoetis Inc. is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of animal health medicines and vaccines, with a focus on both livestock and companion animals. We have a diversified business, marketing products acrosseightcore species: cattle, swine, poultry, sheep and fish (collectively, livestock) and dogs, cats and horses (collectively, companion animals); and withinfivemajor product categories: anti-infectives, vaccines, parasiticides, medicated feed additives and other pharmaceuticals. For more than 60 years, as a business unit of Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer), and since 2013 as an independent public company, we have been committed to enhancing the health of animals and bringing solutions to our customers who raise and care for them.

We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2012. The address of our principal executive offices is 100 Campus Drive, Florham Park, New Jersey 07932. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Zoetis,” “the company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (2015 Annual Report) refer to Zoetis Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. In addition, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer” in this 2015 Annual Report refer to Pfizer Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. Unless the context requires otherwise, statements relating to our history, for periods prior to our initial public offering (IPO), describe the history of Pfizer’s animal health business unit, although it is important to note that the net assets, operations and cash flows of Zoetis are not the same as the historical net assets, operations and cash flows of Pfizer's animal health operating segment.

On February 1, 2013, our Class A common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “ZTS.” On February 6, 2013, an IPO of our Class A common stock was completed, which represented approximately 19.8% of our total outstanding shares. Prior to and in connection with the IPO, we completed a $3.65 billion senior notes offering (senior notes offering), and Pfizer transferred to us substantially all of the assets and liabilities of their animal health business. We did not receive any of the proceeds from the IPO. We paid an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds that we received in the senior notes offering to Pfizer prior to the completion of the IPO. In addition, immediately prior to the completion of the IPO, we and Pfizer entered into certain agreements that provide a framework for our ongoing relationship with Pfizer. On June 24, 2013, an exchange offer was completed whereby Pfizer shareholders exchanged a portion of Pfizer common stock for Zoetis common stock, resulting in the full separation of Zoetis and the disposal of Pfizer's entire ownership and voting interest in Zoetis. We refer to the transactions to separate our business from Pfizer, as described here and elsewhere in this 2015 Annual Report, as the “Separation.” For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—

Note 2. The Separation, Adjustments Associated with the Separation, Senior Notes Offering, Initial Public Offering and Exchange Offer.



Operating Segments

The animal health medicines and vaccines market is characterized by meaningful differences in customer needs across different regions. This is due to a variety of factors, including:

•economic differences, such as standards of living in developed markets as compared to emerging markets;

•cultural differences, such as dietary preferences for different animal proteins, pet ownership preferences and pet care standards;

•epidemiological differences, such as the prevalence of certain bacterial and viral strains and disease dynamics;

•treatment differences, such as utilization of different types of medicines and vaccines, as well as the pace of adoption of new technologies;

•environmental differences, such as seasonality, climate and the availability of arable land and fresh water; and

•regulatory differences, such as standards for product approval and manufacturing.

As a result of these differences, among other things, we organize and operate our business in two segments: the United States and International. Within each of these operating segments, we offer a diversified product portfolio for both livestock and companion animal customers so that we can capitalize on local trends and customer needs. Our operating segments are:

•United Stateswith revenue of $2,328 million, or 49% of total revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2015; and

•Internationalwith revenue of$2,386 million, or 50% of total revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

In addition, our Client Supply Services (CSS) organization provides contract manufacturing services to third parties and represented 1% of our total revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.





1|






Our2015reported revenue for the United States and key international markets, based on total revenue, is as follows:

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)RevenueLivestockCompanion AnimalUnited States$2,32854%46%Australia$14463%37%Brazil$25085%15%Canada$17262%38%China$12380%20%France$10862%38%Germany$12058%42%Italy$9055%45%Japan$10154%46%Mexico$7587%13%Spain$8675%25%United Kingdom$16849%51%Other Developed$28866%34%Other Emerging$66184%16%

% of 2015 reported revenue



For additional information regarding our performance in each of these operating segments and the impact of foreign exchange rates, seeItem 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsand Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 19A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information—Segment Information.Our2015reported revenue for each segment, by species, is as follows:



2015 International Segment Revenue - By Species





2|








Products

Over the course of our history, we have focused on developing a diverse portfolio of animal health products, including medicines and vaccines, complemented by biodevices, diagnostics and genetics. We refer to a single product in all brands, or its dosage forms for all species, as a product line. We have approximately 300 comprehensive product lines, including products for both livestock and companion animals across each of our major product categories.

Our livestock products primarily help prevent or treat diseases and conditions to enable the cost-effective production of safe, high-quality animal protein. Human population growth and increasing standards of living are important long-term growth drivers for our livestock products in three major ways. First, population growth and increasing standards of living drive increased demand for improved nutrition, particularly animal protein. Second, population growth leads to increased natural resource constraints driving a need for enhanced productivity. Finally, as standards of living improve, there is increased focus on food quality and safety. Livestock products represented approximately62%of our revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

Our companion animal products help extend and improve the quality of life for pets; increase convenience and compliance for pet owners; and help veterinarians improve the quality of their care and the efficiency of their businesses. Growth in the companion animal medicines and vaccines sector is driven by economic development, related increases in disposable income and increases in pet ownership and spending on pet care. Companion animals are also living longer, receiving increased medical treatment and benefiting from advances in animal health medicines and vaccines. Companion animal products represented approximately37%of our revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

In addition, our Client Supply Services (CSS) organization provides contract manufacturing services to third parties and represented 1% of our total revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

Our major product categories are:

•anti-infectives: products that prevent, kill or slow the growth of bacteria, fungi or protozoa;

•vaccines: biological preparations that help prevent diseases of the respiratory, gastrointestinal and reproductive tracts or induce a specific immune response;

•parasiticides: products that prevent or eliminate external and internal parasites such as fleas, ticks and worms;

•medicated feed additives: products added to animal feed that provide medicines to livestock; and

•other pharmaceutical products: pain and sedation, oncology, antiemetic, allergy and dermatology, and reproductive products.

Our remaining revenue is derived from other product categories, such as nutritionals and agribusiness, as well as products and services in complementary areas, including biodevices, diagnostics and genetics.

As part of our growth strategy, through our research and development (R&D) group, we focus on the discovery and development of new chemical and biological entities, as well as product lifecycle innovation. Historically, a substantial portion of our products and revenue has been the result of product lifecycle innovation where we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. For example, the first product in our ceftiofur line was an anti-infective approved for treating bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in cattle that was administered via intramuscular injection. Through follow-on studies and reformulations, we have expanded the product line into additional cattle claims and administration routes, as well as other species and regions. The ceftiofur product line currently includes the brands Excede®, Excenel®RTU, Excenel®RTU EZ, Excenel®, Naxcel®and Spectramast®.

Examples of our first-in-class and/or best-in-class products that we have launched in the past ten years and products that we believe may represent platforms for future product lifecycle innovation include:

•Simparica®Chewables, a monthly chewable tablet for dogs to control fleas and ticks which was approved in the European Union and New Zealand in 2015. Other markets, including the United States, are expected to follow.

•Improvac®/Improvest®/Vivax®, a protein product that works like an immunization, is currently the only product that provides a safe and effective alternative to physical castration to manage unpleasant aromas that can occur when cooking pork; launched in Australia and New Zealand in 2004, in Brazil in 2007, in certain European countries beginning in 2008, and in the United States in 2011;

•Convenia®, the first single-injection anti-infective for common bacterial skin infections in cats and dogs, launched in 2006;

•Cerenia®, the first and only product on the market to prevent vomiting due to motion sickness in dogs, was first launched in Europe in 2006, followed by the United States in 2007; it was approved to prevent vomiting in cats in 2012 in the United States and European countries.  In January 2016, it was approved in the United States for intravenous administration in dogs and cats four months of age and older and for the prevention of vomiting caused by emetogenic or chemotherapeutic agents in dogs four months of age or older;

•Palladia®, the first drug to be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treating cancer in dogs, launched in 2009;

•Inforce®3, the first vaccine for cattle that prevents respiratory disease caused by bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) while also aiding in the prevention of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and parainfluenza3(PI3), launched in 2010;

•Fostera®PCV MH was introduced in November 2013 in the United States and approved in the European Union in 2015. It was developed to help protect pigs from PCVAD and enzootic pneumonia caused by M.hyopneumoniae. The one-bottle formulation of Fostera PCV MH allows the convenience of a one-dose program or the flexibility of a two-dose program; and

•Apoquel®, the first Janus kinase inhibitor for use in veterinary medicine, was approved for the control of pruritus associated with allergic dermatitis and the control of atopic dermatitis in dogs at least 12 months of age. Since January 2014, we launched Apoquel in key markets including the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and Spain, and expect other market launches to follow.



3|








We pursue the development of new vaccines for emerging infectious diseases, with an operating philosophy of “first to know and fast to market.” Examples of the successful execution of this strategy include the first equine vaccine for West Nile virus in the United States and European Union; the first swine vaccine for pandemic H1N1 influenza virus in the United States; the first fully licensed vaccine to help reduce disease caused by the Georgia 08 variant of infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) in poultry; a conditionally licensed vaccine to help fight porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDv) in the United States and the first conditionally licensed vaccine to help prevent the H3N2 type of canine influenza that emerged in the United States.

In2015, our top selling product line, the ceftiofur line, contributed approximately8%of our revenue. The ceftiofur line and our next two top selling products, Revolution®and Draxxin®, contributed approximately21%of our revenue. Our top ten product lines contributed38%of our revenue. Our product lines and products that represented approximately 1% or more of our revenue in2015, which comprise58%of our total revenue, are as follows:

Livestock products







Product line / productDescriptionPrimary species



Anti-infectives

Ceftiofur injectable lineBroad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic active against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, including ß-lactamase-producing strains, with some formulations producing a single course of therapy in one injectionCattle, sheep, swine

Draxxin®Single-dose low-volume antibiotic for the treatment and prevention of bovine and swine respiratory disease, infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis and bovine foot rotCattle, swine

Spectramast®Treatment of subclinical or clinical mastitis in dry or lactating dairy cattle, delivered via intramammary infusion; same active ingredient as the ceftiofur lineCattle

Terramycin®lineAntibiotic for the treatment of susceptible infectionsCattle, poultry, sheep, swine



Vaccines

Bovi-Shield®lineAids in preventing diseases, including infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) Types 1 and 2, parainfluenza3(PI3), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and leptospirosis caused byLeptospira borgpetersenii,L.canicola, L grippotyphosa, L. hardjo,L. icterohaemorrhagiae, and L. pamona,  depending on formulationCattle

Rispoval®lineAids in preventing three key viruses involved in cattle pneumonia-BRSV, PI3virus and BVD-viruses as well as other respiratory diseases, depending on formulationCattle

Suvaxyn®PCV / Fostera®PCVAids in preventing viremia and helps control lymphoid depletion caused by porcine circovirusSwine



Parasiticides

Cydectin®Injectable or pour-on endectocide to treat and control internal and external cattle parasites, including gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms, cattle grubs, mites and liceCattle, sheep

Dectomax®Injectable or pour-on endectocide, characterized by extended duration of activity, for the treatment and control of internal and external parasite infectionsCattle, swine



Medicated Feed Additives

Aureomycin®Provides livestock producers control, treatment and convenience against a wide range of respiratory, enteric and reproductive diseasesCattle, poultry, sheep, swine

BMD®Aids in preventing and controlling enteritis; and increases rate of weight gain and improves feed efficiency in poultry and swinePoultry, swine

Lasalocid lineControls coccidiosis in poultry (Avatec®) and cattle (Bovatec®) and for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency in cattlePoultry, cattle

Lincomycin lineControls necrotic enteritis; treatment of dysentery (bloody scours), control of ileitis and treatment/reduction in severity of mycoplasmal pneumoniaSwine, poultry



Other

Embrex®devicesDevices for enhancing hatchery operations' efficiency throughin ovodetection and vaccinationPoultry

Lutalyse®For estrus control or in the induction of parturition or abortionCattle, swine

Orbeseal®/ Teatseal®Non-antibiotic intramammary infusion that prevents new intramammary infections in dairy cattleCattle



4|








Companion animal products







Product line / productDescriptionPrimary species



Anti-infectives

Clavamox®/ Synulox®A broad-spectrum antibiotic and the first and only potentiated penicillin approved for use in dogs and catsCats, dogs

Convenia®Anti-infective for the treatment of common bacterial skin infections that provides a course of treatment in a single injectionCats, dogs



Vaccines

Vanguard®L4 (4-way Lepto)Compatible with the Vanguard line and helps protect against leptospirosis caused byLeptospira canicola,L. grippotyphosa,L. icterohaemorrhagiaeandL. pomonaDogs

Vanguard®lineAids in preventing canine distemper caused by canine distemper virus, infectious canine hepatitis caused by canine adenovirus type 1, respiratory disease caused by canine adenovirus type 2, canine parainfluenza caused by canine parainfluenza virus and canine parvoviral enteritis caused by canine parvovirusDogs



Parasiticides

Revolution®/ Stronghold®An antiparasitic for protection against fleas, heartworm disease and ear mites in cats and dogs; canine sarcoptic mites and American dog tick and roundworms and hookworms for catsCats, dogs

ProHeart®Prevents heartworm infestation; also for treatment of existing larval and adult hookworm infectionsDogs



Other

Apoquel®A selective inhibitor of the Janus Kinase 1 enzyme that controls pruritus associated with allergic dermatitis and control of atopic dermatitis in dogs at least 12 months of ageDogs

Cerenia®A medication that prevents and treats acute vomiting in dogs, treats acute vomiting in cats and prevents vomiting due to motion sickness in dogsCats, dogs

Rimadyl®For the relief of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and for the control of postoperative pain associated with soft tissue and orthopedic surgeriesDogs



International Operations

We directly market our products in approximately 45 countries across North America, Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia and South America, and our products are sold in more than 100 countries. Operations outside the United States accounted for51%of our total revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2015. Through our efforts to establish an early and direct presence in many emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and Mexico, emerging markets contributed23%of our revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors— Risks related to our international operations.



Sales and Marketing

Our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. In markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products.

Our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to provide information and to promote and sell our products and services. Our technical and veterinary operations specialists, who generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees, provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use. These direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. Additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. As a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. As ofDecember 31, 2015, our sales organization consisted of approximately2,800employees.

Our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. On a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. We also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners.



Customers

We sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork and poultry operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that typically then sell the products to livestock producers. We primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. Our two largest customers, both distributors, represented



5|






approximately 14% and 9%, respectively, of our revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2015, and no other customer represented more than 5% of our revenue for the same period.



Research and Development

Our R&D operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine R&D organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development, registration and regulatory maintenance of our products. We spent $364 millionin2015, $396 millionin2014and $399 millionin2013on R&D.

Our R&D efforts are comprised of more than 300 programs and reflect our commitment to develop better solutions.  We create new insights for preventing and treating disease, and maximizing healthy performance, that result in the development of new platforms of knowledge which become the basis for continuous innovation.  Leveraging internal discoveries, complemented by diverse external research collaborations, results in the delivery of novel vaccine, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products to help our customers face their toughest challenges.  While the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product R&D plays a critical role in our growth strategies, the majority of our R&D investment (including regulatory functions) is focused on product lifecycle innovation. A commitment to continuous innovation, based on customer need, ensures we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. We also create opportunities to optimize solutions through our extensive capabilities in diagnostics and genetics research, ensuring we can help our customers diagnose, prevent and treat a variety of conditions.

We prioritize our R&D spending on an annual basis with the goal of aligning our research and business objectives, and do not disaggregate our R&D operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. We make our strategic investments in R&D based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. A centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend. This view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. The allocation of our R&D investment between product lifecycle innovation and new product development, in addition to our ability to leverage the discoveries of our existing R&D and other industries, supports a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable R&D process.

Prior to the IPO, we entered into an R&D collaboration and license agreement with Pfizer pursuant to which we maintain access to Pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to develop new products, subject to certain restrictions. SeeItem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer: Research and development collaboration and license agreement.In addition, we regularly enter into agreements with external parties that enable us to collaborate on research programs or gain access to substrates and technologies. Some of our external partnerships involve funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. We are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental expertise for, as well as investment in, such external partnerships. Depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models.

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we employed approximately1,050employees in our global R&D operations. Our R&D headquarters is located in Kalamazoo, Michigan. We have R&D operations co-located with manufacturing sites in Melbourne, Australia; Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium; Campinas, Brazil; Guarulhos, Brazil; Olot, Spain; and Lincoln, Nebraska, United States. We co-locate R&D operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. It is our intention to exit our R&D operations in Guarulhos, Brazil and Melbourne, Australia by the end of 2016. In addition, we maintain R&D operations in Sydney, Australia; Zaventem, Belgium; São Paulo, Brazil; Beijing, China; Mumbai, India; and Durham, North Carolina, United States. We lease our Mumbai, India facility from Pfizer. SeeItem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer: Mumbai, India interim lease agreement. Additionally, as a result of the recent acquisition of Pharmaq, we maintain R&D operations in Thanh Binh, Vietnam; Hong Ngu, Vietnam; and Oslo, Norway focused on fish vaccines. Each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents.



Manufacturing and Supply Chain

Our products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as CMOs. We have a global manufacturing network of28sites, which utilizes centralized oversight of a system of17“anchor” and11“satellite” manufacturing sites to maximize cost efficiencies.



6|






Our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites:Anchor SitesSatellite SitesSiteLocationSiteLocationCataniaItalyCampinasBrazilCharles CityIowa, U.S.Eagle GroveIowa, U.S.Chicago HeightsIllinois, U.S.Hsinchu(2)TaiwanDurhamNorth Carolina, U.S.Laurinburg(2)North Carolina, U.S.Guarulhos(1)BrazilLongmont(2)Colorado, U.S.Haridwar(2)IndiaMedollaItalyJilin(3)ChinaSalisburyMaryland, U.S.KalamazooMichigan, U.S.Van Buren(2)Arkansas, U.S.LincolnNebraska, U.S.WellingtonNew ZealandLondon(4)Ontario, CanadaWhite HallIllinois, U.S.Louvain-la-NeuveBelgiumYantaiChinaMelbourneAustraliaOlotSpainOverhalla(5)NorwaySan DiegoCalifornia, U.S.SuzhouChinaWillow IslandWest Virginia, U.S.

(1)This site is owned by us and leased back to Pfizer, pursuant to an arrangement by which Pfizer operates the manufacturing operations at the site for a period of time. We expect Pfizer to transfer the site back to us in 2016. SeeItem 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Brazil lease agreements.

(2)We are in the process of exiting this site as a result of our operational efficiency initiative and supply network strategy.

(3)This site is operated by the China joint venture, Jilin Zoetis Guoyuan Animal Health Company, Ltd.

(4)In August 2015, Zoetis acquired KL Products, Inc., a leading Canadian manufacturer of automation systems for the poultry industry. The systems are manufactured in London, Ontario, Canada.

(5)In November 2015, Zoetis acquired Pharmaq, the global leader in vaccines and innovation for health products in aquaculture. The vaccines are manufactured in Overhalla, Norway.

In 2015, we exited our manufacturing site in Shenzhou, China as part of our operational efficiency program and supply network strategy.

We own all of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in Melbourne, Australia; Medolla, Italy; Van Buren, Arkansas, United States; and San Diego, California, United States, which are leased sites.

In addition to our global manufacturing network and our CMOs, Pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at11Pfizer sites located in 11 countries pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. Included in these11Pfizer sites is our facility in Guarulhos, Brazil, where Pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a short period of time. SeeItem 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Master manufacturing and supply agreements.

Our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of CMOs. As ofDecember 31, 2015, this network was comprised of approximately200CMOs, including those centrally managed as well as local CMOs.

We select CMOs based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) their access to niche products and technologies; (iii) capacity; and (iv) financial efficiency analyses. Our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the CMOs we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality.

We purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. We utilize logistics service providers as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support.

We intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including Six Sigma and Lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. We have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and CMO sites. We are currently conducting a review of our global manufacturing and supply network to improve efficiency and have announced plans to exit or sell certain sites. SeeOperational Efficiency Program.



Competition

Although our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines and vaccines industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. Principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers.



7|






Our primary competitors include animal health medicines and vaccines companies such as Merck Animal Health, the animal health division of Merck & Co., Inc.; Merial, the animal health division of Sanofi S.A.; Elanco, the animal health division of Eli Lilly and Company; Bayer Animal Health, the animal health division of Bayer AG; and Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health, the animal health division of Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. There are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. In addition, we compete with hundreds of other producers of animal health products throughout the world.

The level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. For example, the level of generic competition is higher in Europe and certain emerging markets than in the United States. Unlike in the human health market, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. The reasons for this include the relatively smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. In addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians.

Our livestock products tend to experience lower generic competition than our companion animal products for several reasons:

•livestock producers tend to be loyal to medicines and vaccines that have been demonstrated to be efficacious because medicines and vaccines are a small portion of a livestock producer's total production costs and ineffective medicines and vaccines could result in the loss of animals, causing disproportionate harm to such producer's investment;

•livestock producers value the technical assistance provided through our veterinary operations' support of our products and field force; and

•the importance of reliable supply.

The importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. As a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity.



Intellectual Property

Our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate.

Our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 4,800 granted patents and 2,000 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with concentration in our major market countries as well as other countries with strong patent systems, such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe, Japan and the United States. Many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our own and Pfizer's work, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were at least partially developed by, and are licensed to us by, third parties.

Patents for individual products extend for varying periods depending on the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. Several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line began expiring in the United States in 2015; however, various formulation and use patents extend through to 2024. Draxxin is covered by compound and formulation patents in the United States and Europe with terms that expire between late 2018 and 2021. The compound patent for the parasiticide selamectin, the active ingredient in Revolution, expired during 2014. However, process and formulation patents covering this product expire in 2018 and 2019, respectively.

Additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. We actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement.

In order to facilitate the Separation and allow Pfizer and our operations to continue with minimal interruption, Pfizer has licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. We license to Pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. In addition, Pfizer granted us a transitional license to use certain of Pfizer's trademarks and we granted Pfizer a transitional license to use certain of our trademarks for a period of time following the completion of the IPO.

We seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. We currently maintain more than 10,000 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals.



Operational Efficiency Program

During 2015, we launched a comprehensive operational efficiency program, which was incremental to the previously announced supply network strategy. These initiatives  have focused on reducing complexity in our product portfolios through the elimination of approximately 5,000 product stock keeping units (SKUs), changing our selling approach in certain markets, reducing our presence in certain countries and planning to sell or exit ten manufacturing sites over the long term. As of December 31, 2015, we entered into an agreement to divest three U.S. manufacturing sites and in January 2016, we announced agreements to sell manufacturing facilities in India and Taiwan. We are also continuing to optimize our resource allocation and efficiency by reducing resources associated with non-customer facing activities and operating more efficiently as a result of less internal complexity and more standardization of processes.

As part of this initiative, we expect to reduce certain positions through divestitures, normal attrition and involuntary terminations by approximately 2,000 to 2,500, subject to consultations with works councils and unions in certain countries. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 1,200 positions have been eliminated and additional reductions are expected primarily over the next nine to twelve months.



8|








Regulatory

The sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. To maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. Our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. In the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products.

United States

United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA).The regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the United States is the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM), housed within the FDA. All manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The FDA's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a Freedom of Information Summary. Post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the CVM's Surveillance and Compliance group. Reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. Additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source.

United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).The regulatory body in the United States for veterinary vaccines is the USDA. The USDA's Center for Veterinary Biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. All manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the Virus Serum Toxin Act. Post-approval monitoring of products is required. Reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements.

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).The main regulatory body in the United States for veterinary pesticides is the EPA. The EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. All manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause “unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment” as stated in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. Within the United States, pesticide products that are approved by the EPA must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. Post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the EPA and some state regulatory agencies.

In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.

Outside the United States

European Union (EU).

Brazil.The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Production and Supply (MAPA) is the regulatory body in Brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. MAPA's regulatory activities are conducted through the Secretary of Agricultural Defense and its Livestock Products Inspection Department. In addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the Federal Agriculture Superintendence. These activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. MAPA is one of the most active regulatory agencies in Latin America, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as Codex Alimentarius, World Organization for Animal Health and Committee of Veterinary Medicines for the Americas. MAPA was also invited to be a Latin American representative at meetings of the International Cooperation on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products (VICH). Several normative instructions issued by MAPA have set regulatory trends in Latin America.

Australia.The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority (APVMA) is an Australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the Australian marketplace. Previously each State and Territory government had its own system of registration. The APVMA assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. Applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the APVMA's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, Commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. If the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the APVMA will register the product. As well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the APVMA reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job



9|








users expect and are safe to use. The APVMA also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. The review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. In some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being cancelled and the product taken off the market.

Rest of world.Country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. With the exception of the EU, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the FDA, USDA, EU and other international animal health entities, including the World Organization for Animal Health, Codex Alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines.

Global policy and guidance

Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives.The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO). They provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. We work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. This in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain.

Advertising and promotion review.Promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. These rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. We conduct a review of promotion materials for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products.

Food Safety Inspection Service/generally recognized as safe.The FDA is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including “generally recognized as safe” substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. However, although the FDA has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the Food Safety and Inspection Service, the public health agency in the USDA, still retains, under the tenets of the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Products Inspection Act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products.

International Cooperation on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products (VICH).VICH is a trilateral (EU-Japan-USA) program aimed at harmonizing technical requirements for veterinary product registration. The objectives of the VICH are as follows:

•Establish and implement harmonized technical requirements for the registration of veterinary medicinal products in the VICH regions, which meet high quality, safety and efficacy standards and minimize the use of test animals and costs of product development.

•Provide a basis for wider international harmonization of registration requirements through the VICH Outreach Forum.

•Monitor and maintain existing VICH guidelines, taking particular note of the ICH work program and, where necessary, update these VICH guidelines.

•Ensure efficient processes for maintaining and monitoring consistent interpretation of data requirements following the implementation of VICH guidelines.

•By means of a constructive dialogue between regulatory authorities and industry, provide technical guidance enabling response to significant emerging global issues and science that impact on regulatory requirements within the VICH regions.



Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we had approximately9,000employees worldwide, which included approximately3,900employees in the United States and approximately5,100in other jurisdictions. Some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately50union employees in the United States.



Environmental, Health and Safety

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. Due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. These authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions.

Certain environmental laws, such as the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third-party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. In addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property.

We have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. In connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in2015for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows:



10|






•environmental-related capital expenditures - $1 million; and

•other environmental-related expenditures - $12 million.

However, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. Such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. This increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products.

In connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. We have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all.

While we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.



Recent Acquisitions

On November 9, 2015, we completed a transaction through which we acquired Pharmaq, a leading global animal health company specializing in vaccines and innovation for aquaculture.

On February 10, 2015, we completed the purchase of certain assets of Abbott Animal Health, a subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories. Abbott Animal Health is a companion animal health business focused on the veterinary surgical suite. The purchase expands our companion animal product portfolio to include veterinarian solutions for anesthesia, pain management, and the diagnosis of diabetes.

For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5A. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Certain Investments: Acquisition of PharmaqandAcquisition of Abbott Animal Health.



Available Information

The company's Internet website address is www.zoetis.com. On our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Also available on our website is information relating to corporate governance at Zoetis and our Board of Directors, including as follows: our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Zoetis Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, and Controller); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our Directors; Board Committees and Committee Charters; and ways to communicate by email with our Directors. We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Zoetis Inc., 100 Campus Drive, Florham Park, New Jersey 07932. Information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. We will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of these ethics policies and standards affecting our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, and Controller on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable SEC and NYSE rules.

We use our website (www.zoetis.com) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation Fair Disclosure promulgated by the SEC. These disclosures are included on our website (www.zoetis.com) in the “Investors” and “News & Media” sections. Accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website (www. zoetis.com), in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts.

The information contained on our website does not constitute, and shall not be deemed to constitute, a part of this2015Annual Report, or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Our references to the URLs for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.



11|








