Item 1. Business.



Overview

Zoetis Inc. is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of animal health medicines and vaccines, with a focus on both livestock and companion animals. We market a diverse range of products across four regions: the United States, Europe/Africa/Middle East, Canada/Latin America and Asia/Pacific; eight core species: the livestock species of cattle, swine, poultry, sheep and fish, and the companion animal species of dogs, cats and horses; and five major product categories: anti-infectives, vaccines, parasiticides, medicated feed additives and other pharmaceutical products. For more than 60 years, as a business unit of Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer), we have been committed to enhancing the health of animals and bringing solutions to our customers who raise and care for them.

We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2012. The address of our principal executive offices is currently 5 Giralda Farms, Madison, New Jersey 07940. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Zoetis,” “the company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 (2012 Annual Report) refer to Zoetis Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries after giving effect to the transactions described below under “Recent Developments.” In addition, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer” in this 2012 Annual Report refer to Pfizer Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries other than Zoetis and Zoetis’s subsidiaries. Unless the context requires otherwise, statements relating to our history describe the history of Pfizer’s animal health business unit, although it is important to note that the net assets, operations and cash flows of Zoetis are not the same as the historical net assets, operations and cash flows of Pfizer's animal health operating segment, and, therefore, the historical financial results of Pfizer's animal health business unit should not be relied upon as indicative of the performance of Zoetis.

Note 19. Subsequent Events

, as well as

Recent Developments

below.



Operating Segments

The animal health medicines and vaccines market is characterized by meaningful differences in customer needs across different regions. This is due to a variety of factors, including:

•economic differences, such as standards of living in developed markets as compared to emerging markets;

•cultural differences, such as dietary preferences for different animal proteins, pet ownership preferences and pet care standards;

•epidemiological differences, such as the prevalence of certain bacterial and viral strains and disease dynamics;

•treatment differences, such as utilization of different types of medicines and vaccines, in particular high-technology products;

•environmental differences, such as seasonality, climate and the availability of arable land and fresh water; and

•regulatory differences, such as standards for product approval and manufacturing.

As a result of these differences, among other things, we organize and operate our business in four segments: the United States, Europe/Africa/Middle East, Canada/Latin America and Asia/Pacific. Within each of these operating segments, we offer a diversified product portfolio for both livestock and companion animal customers so that we can capitalize on local trends and customer needs. Our operating segments are:

•United Stateswith revenues of $1,776 millionthat were41%of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012.

•Europe/Africa/Middle Eastwith revenues of $1,096 millionthat were25%of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Key developed markets in this segment include the United Kingdom, Germany and France. Key emerging markets in this segment include Russia, Turkey and South Africa.

•Canada/Latin Americawith revenues of $769 millionthat were18%of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. The developed market in this segment is Canada. Key emerging markets in this segment include Brazil and Mexico.

•Asia/Pacificwith revenues of $695 millionthat were16%of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Key developed markets in this segment include Australia, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea. Key emerging markets in this segment include India and China.

For additional information regarding our performance in each of these operating segments and the impact of foreign exchange rates, as well as significant acquisitions that Pfizer completed in recent years, seeManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of



1|






Operationsand Notes to Combined Financial Statements—Note 17A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information—Segment Information.



Products

Since the inception of our business, we have focused on developing a broad portfolio of animal health products. We refer to a single product brand in all of its dosage forms for all species as a product line. We have comprehensive product lines for both livestock and companion animals across each of our major product categories.

Our major product categories are:

•anti-infectives: products that prevent, kill or slow the growth of bacteria, fungi or protozoa;

•vaccines: biological preparations that prevent diseases of the respiratory, gastrointestinal and reproductive tracts or induce a specific immune response;

•parasiticides: products that prevent or eliminate external and internal parasites such as fleas, ticks and worms;

•medicated feed additives: products added to animal feed that provide medicines, nutrients and probiotics to livestock; and

•other pharmaceutical products: complementary products, such as pain and sedation, oncology and antiemetic products.

Our remaining revenues are derived from other product categories, such as nutritionals and agribusiness, as well as products in complementary areas, including diagnostics, genetics, devices and services such as dairy data management, e-learning and professional consulting. We believe many of these complementary areas represent potential growth opportunities for our business to expand in the future.

Historically, a substantial portion of our products and revenues have been the result of brand lifecycle development. For example, the first product in our Ceftiofur line was an anti-infective approved for treating Bovine Respiratory Disease in cattle that was administered via intramuscular injection. Through follow-on studies and reformulations, we have expanded the product line into additional cattle claims and administration routes, as well as other species and regions. Several products in the line provide a full course of therapy in one injection. The Ceftiofur product line currently includes the brands Excede, Excenel and Naxcel.

In addition to brand lifecycle development, we also pursue the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product research and development (R&D) as part of our growth strategies. Examples of our first-in-class or best-in-class products that we have launched in the past ten years and products that we believe may represent platforms for future brand lifecycle development include:

•Draxxin, a novel antibiotic for livestock that delivers a full course of therapy in one dose, launched in 2003;

•Inforce, the first and only respiratory vaccine for cattle that prevents respiratory disease caused by bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) while also aiding in the prevention of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and parainfluenza3 (PI3), launched in 2010;

•Improvac/Improvest, the only product that reduces boar taint in male swine without surgical castration, launched in 2004 in Australia and New Zealand and in 2011 in the United States;

•Convenia, the first single-injection anti-infective for common bacterial skin infections in cats and dogs, launched in 2006; and

•Palladia, the first drug to be approved by the FDA for treating cancer in dogs, launched in 2009.

We pursue the development of new vaccines for emerging infectious diseases, with an operating philosophy of “first to know and fast to market.” Examples of the successful execution of this strategy include the first equine vaccine for West Nile Virus in the U.S. and European Union and the first swine vaccine for Pandemic H1N1 Influenza Virus in the U.S.

Our livestock products primarily prevent or treat diseases and conditions to enable the cost-effective production of safe, high-quality animal protein. Human population growth and increasing standards of living are important growth drivers for our livestock products in three major ways. First, as population grows and standards of living rise, there is increased demand for improved nutrition, particularly animal protein. Second, population growth leads to increased natural resource constraints driving a need for enhanced productivity. And, finally, as standards of living improve, there is increased focus on food safety. Livestock products represented approximately65%of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Our companion animal products improve the quality of and extend the life of pets, increase convenience and compliance for pet owners and help veterinarians improve the quality of care they provide. Growth in the companion animal medicines and vaccines sector is driven by economic development and related increases in disposable income, increasing pet ownership, companion animals living longer, increasing medical treatment of companion animals and advances in animal health medicines and vaccines. Companion animal products represented approximately35%of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012.

In 2012, our top selling product line, the Ceftiofur line, contributed approximately7%of our revenues.  The Ceftiofur line and our next two top selling products, Revolution and Draxxin, contributed approximately20%of our revenues. Our top ten product lines contributed39%of our revenues. Our product lines and products that represented approximately 1% or more of our revenues in 2012 include:



2|






Livestock products







Product line/ productDescriptionPrimary species



Anti-infectives

AureomycinProvides livestock producers treatment and convenience against a wide range of respiratory, enteric and reproductive diseasesCattle, poultry, sheep, swine

BMDAids in preventing and controlling enteritis, thereby increasing rate of weight gain and improving feed efficiencyCattle, poultry, swine

Ceftiofur lineBroad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic active against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, including ß-lactamase-producing strains, with some formulations producing a single course of therapy in one injectionCattle, sheep, swine

DraxxinSingle-dose low-volume antibiotic for the treatment and prevention of bovine and swine respiratory disease, infectious bovine kerato conjunctivitis and bovine foot rotCattle, swine

Lincomycin lineAids in preventing and treating Chronic Respiratory Disease associated with mycoplasma and coliform infections in growing chickens and for the treatment of swine dysentery (bloody scours) associated with Brachyspira (Serpulina) hyodysenteriaeSwine, poultry

SpectramastAids in preventing and treating mastitis, delivered via intramammary administration. Same active ingredient as the Ceftiofur lineCattle

TerramycinAntibiotic for the treatment of susceptible infectionsCattle, poultry, sheep, swine



Vaccines

Bovishield lineAids in preventing diseases, including infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), bovine viral diarrhea (BVD, Types 1 and 2), parainfluenza3 (PI3) virus and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV),Leptospira borgpetersenii,L. pomona,L. grippotyphosa,L. canicolaandL. icterohaemorrhagiae, depending on formulationCattle

Improvac / ImprovestVaccination to reduce boar taint, as an alternative to surgical castrationSwine

RespiSure lineAids in preventing chronic pneumonia caused byMycoplasma hyopneumoniaeSwine

Rispoval lineAids in preventing three key viruses involved in cattle pneumonia-BRSV, PI3 and BVD-as well as other respiratory diseases, depending on formulationCattle



Parasiticides

CydectinInjectable or pour-on endectocide to treat and control internal and external cattle parasites, including gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms, cattle grubs, mites and liceCattle, sheep

DectomaxInjectable or pour-on endectocide, characterized by extended duration of activity, for the treatment and control of internal and external parasite infectionsCattle, swine



Other

Eazi-Breed CIDRProgesterone-releasing device for the control of the estrus cycleCattle, sheep

Embrex devicesDevices for enhancing hatchery operations efficiency throughin ovodetection and vaccinationPoultry

LutalyseFor estrus control or in the induction of parturition or abortionCattle, swine

Orbeseal / TeatsealNon-antibiotic intramammary infusion that prevents new intramammary infections in dairy cattleCattle



3|






Companion animal products

Product line/ productDescriptionPrimary speciesAnti-infectivesClavamox / SynuloxA broad-spectrum antibiotic and the first and only potentiated penicillin approved for use in dogs and catsCats, dogsConveniaAnti-infective for the treatment of common bacterial skin infections that provides a course of treatment in a single injectionCats, dogsTerramycinAntibiotic for the treatment of susceptible ophthalmic infectionsCats, dogs, horsesVaccinesVanguard 4-way LeptoCompatible with Vanguard High Titer and protects against leptospirosis caused byLeptospira canicola,L. grippotyphosa,L. icterohaemorrhagiaeandL. pomonaDogsVanguard High TiterAids in preventing canine distemper caused by canine distemper virus, infectious canine hepatitis caused by canine adenovirus type 1, respiratory disease caused by canine adenovirus type 2, canine parainfluenza caused by canine parainfluenza virus and canine parvoviral enteritis caused by canine parvovirusDogsParasiticidesRevolution / StrongholdAn antiparasitic for protection against fleas, heartworm and ear mites in cats and dogs; canine sarcoptic mites and American ticks for dogs and roundworms and hookworms for catsCats, dogsOtherCereniaAn oral medication that prevents vomiting due to motion sickness in dogsDogsRimadylFor the relief of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and for the control of postoperative pain associated with soft tissue and orthopedic surgeriesDogs



International Operations

We directly market our products in approximately 70 countries across North America, Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia and Latin America, and our products are sold in more than 120 countries. Revenues from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for59%of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Through our efforts to establish an early and direct presence in many emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and India, emerging markets contributed26%of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. SeeItem 1A. Risk Factors— Risks related to our international operations.



Sales and Marketing

Our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists, as well as contracts with distributors in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence. In markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products.

Our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to inform, promote and sell our products and services. Our technical and veterinary operations specialists provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use, and generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees. These direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. Additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. As a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. As of December 31, 2012, our sales organization consisted of approximately 3,300 employees.

Our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. On a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. We also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners.



Customers

We sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork, poultry and aquaculture operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that typically then sell the products to livestock producers. We primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. Our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 9% and 6%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 and no other customer represented more than 4% of our revenues for the same period.



4|








Research and Development

Our research and development operations are comprised of our dedicated veterinary medicine research and development organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development of our products. We spent $409 million in 2012, $427 million in 2011 and $411 million in 2010 on research and development.

While the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product R&D continues to play an important role in our growth strategies, the majority of our R&D investment is focused on brand lifecycle development. New product R&D leverages discoveries of agribusiness, academia, and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology R&D organizations. Our brand lifecycle development leverages our existing product portfolio to expand our product lines by adding new species or claims, achieving approvals in new countries and creating new combinations and reformulations. Our ability to leverage both the discoveries of other industries and of our existing R&D generally leads to a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and more predictable R&D process. In addition, our other R&D activities include the development of branded generic products, genetics and diagnostics, as well as biodevices and engineering investments forin ovoapplications.

We prioritize our R&D spending on an annual basis with the goal of transparency and alignment of research and business objectives and do not disaggregate our R&D operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. Instead, we allocate capital based on return on investment criteria, taking into account customer needs, revenues and profitability potential, the probability of technical and regulatory success, and timing of launch. A centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend without a focus on spending by research stage or by therapeutic area. This comprehensive view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency.

Prior to the IPO, we entered into a R&D collaboration and license agreement with Pfizer pursuant to which we will maintain access to Pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to develop new products, subject to certain restrictions. SeeItem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Research and development collaboration and license agreement.In addition, we intend to explore opportunities to enter into collaboration agreements and external alliances with other parties.

As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 1,000 employees in our global R&D operations. Our R&D headquarters is located in Kalamazoo, Michigan. We have R&D operations co-located with manufacturing sites in Melbourne, Australia; Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium; Guarulhos, Brazil; Jilin, China; Olot, Spain and San Diego, CA; Charles City, IA and Lincoln, NE in the U.S. We co-locate R&D operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. In addition, we maintained R&D operations in Zaventem, Belgium; São Paulo, Brazil; Victoria, British Columbia, Canada; Mumbai and New Delhi, India; and College Park, MD and Durham, NC in the U.S. As part of the Separation, Pfizer conveyed to us its interest in each of these R&D facilities, with the exception of our Mumbai, India facility, which we expect Pfizer to transfer to us for agreed upon cash consideration, and, in the interim, we will lease the facility from Pfizer. SeeItem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Mumbai, India interim lease agreement. Each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents.

Many of our research programs involve an external partnership, often with funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. We are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental direct and indirect expertise in, as well as investment for, such external partnerships. Depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models.



Manufacturing and Supply Chain

Prior to the Separation, our products were manufactured at both sites operated by Pfizer and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as CMOs.

In connection with the Separation, Pfizer transferred 29 manufacturing sites to us. These 29 sites consist of all of the sites operated by Pfizer that, immediately prior to the Separation, predominantly manufactured animal health products. We refer to these 29 sites as our global manufacturing network. SeeItem 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Master manufacturing and supply agreements.

Our global manufacturing network utilizes centralized oversight of a system of 13 “anchor” and 16 “satellite” manufacturing sites to maximize cost efficiencies.



5|






Our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites:

Anchor SitesSatellite SitesSiteLocationSiteLocationCataniaItalyCampinasBrazilCharles CityIowa, U.S.DurhamNorth Carolina, U.S.Chicago HeightsIllinois, U.S.Eagle GroveIowa, U.S.Guarulhos*BrazilHannibalMissouri, U.S.HaridwarIndiaHsinchuTaiwanJilin**ChinaLaurinburgNorth Carolina, U.S.Kalamazoo***Michigan, U.S.LongmontColorado, U.S.LincolnNebraska, U.S.MedollaItalyLouvain-la-NeuveBelgiumSalisburyMaryland, U.S.MelbourneAustraliaSan DiegoCalifornia, U.S.OlotSpainShenzhouChinaSuzhouChinaVan BurenArkansas, U.S.Willow IslandWest Virginia, U.S.VictoriaBritish Columbia, CanadaWellingtonNew ZealandWhite HallIllinois, U.S.YantaiChina

*This site is owned by us and leased back to Pfizer, pursuant to an arrangement by which Pfizer operates the manufacturing operations at the site for a period of time. SeeItem 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Brazil lease agreements.

**This site is operated by the Jilin Pfizer Guoyuan joint venture.

***Prior to the Separation, Pfizer's manufacturing site in Kalamazoo manufactured both human health and animal health products. Since the Separation, we own the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture animal health products and Pfizer owns the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture human health products.

Ownership of these facilities was conveyed to us by Pfizer as part of the Separation, with the exception of our facilities in Hannibal, Missouri, Medolla, Italy and San Diego, California, which are leased sites. The leasehold interests in these sites were conveyed to us by Pfizer as part of the Separation.

In addition to our global manufacturing network, Pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at 14 Pfizer sites located in 13 countries pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. Included in these 14 Pfizer sites is our facility in Guarulhos, Brazil, where Pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a period of time. These 14 Pfizer sites consist of sites operated by Pfizer that, immediately prior to the Separation, predominantly manufactured human health products. The decision to continue manufacturing our products at Pfizer sites will be reevaluated in the future based on several factors, including manufacturing costs and the needs of our business. SeeItem 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Master manufacturing and supply agreements.

The Pfizer sites that continue to manufacture products for us are listed in the table below. All of these sites are owned by Pfizer with the exception of the Guarulhos, Brazil facility which is owned by us and leased back to Pfizer.

SiteLocationAmboiseFranceAndoverMassachusetts, U.S.AscoliItalyCairoEgyptEl JadidaMoroccoGuarulhos*BrazilIstanbulTurkeyJakartaIndonesiaKalamazoo**Michigan, U.S.NagoyaJapanPuursBelgiumRingaskiddyIrelandValenciaVenezuelaWest RydeAustralia



6|






*This site is owned by us and leased back to Pfizer, pursuant to an arrangement by which Pfizer operates the manufacturing operations at the site for a period of time. SeeItem 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Brazil lease agreements.

**Prior to the Separation, Pfizer's manufacturing site in Kalamazoo manufactured both human health and animal health products. Since the Separation, we own the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture animal health products and Pfizer owns the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture human health products.

Our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of CMOs.As of December 31, 2012, this network was comprised of approximately200CMOs, including those centrally managed as well as local CMOs.

We select CMOs based on capacity and financial efficiency analyses, and our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the CMOs we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality and are regularly audited.

We purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. We utilize distributors as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support.

We intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including Six Sigma and Lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. We have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and CMO sites.



Competition

Although our business is the largest based on revenues in the animal health medicines and vaccines industry, we face competition in the regions and sectors in which we compete. Principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers.

Our primary competitors include animal health medicines and vaccines companies such as Merck Animal Health, the animal health division of Merck & Co., Inc. (formerly known as Intervet/Schering-Plough); Merial, the animal health division of Sanofi S.A.; Elanco, the animal health division of Eli Lilly and Company; Bayer Animal Health, the animal health division of Bayer AG; Novartis Animal Health, the animal health division of Novartis AG; and Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health, the animal health division of Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. In addition, we compete with hundreds of other animal health product producers throughout the world.

The level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. For example, the level of generic competition is higher in Europe and certain emerging markets than in the U.S. However, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. The reasons for this include the smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. In addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians.

Our livestock products tend to experience lower generic competition than our companion animal products for several reasons:

•livestock producers tend to be loyal to medicines and vaccines that have been demonstrated to be efficacious; as medicines and vaccines are a small portion of a livestock producer's total production costs and ineffective medicines and vaccines could result in the loss of animals, causing disproportionate harm to such producer's investment. Therefore, we believe that livestock producers value brand name medicines and vaccines and are reluctant to try alternatives to methods that have already been proven to be reliably effective;

•the economic benefits of our livestock medicines and vaccines are easier to measure because livestock production success can be measured solely in economic terms, with the goal of livestock medicines and vaccines tied to better food production; and

•the success of medicines and vaccines used on livestock is generally observed more quickly.

The importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. As a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity.



Intellectual Property

Our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate.

Our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 4,000 granted patents and 2,000 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with concentration in our major market countries as well as other countries with strong patent systems, such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe, Japan and the U.S. Many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our own and Pfizer's work, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were at least partially developed by, and are licensed to us, by third parties.

Patents for individual products extend for varying periods depending on the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. Several patents cover the Ceftiofur product line, including formulation and use patents that begin expiring in the U.S. in 2015, with others extending until 2024. Draxxin and Convenia are covered by patents in the U.S. with terms that expire in 2021 and 2023, respectively. The compound patent on doramectin, which is the active ingredient in Dectomax, an antiparasitic, has expired in



7|






all regions; however, process patents and the injectable formulation patent for this product do not expire in the U.S. until 2020 and 2016, respectively. The compound patent on selamectin, which is active in Revolution, a parasiticide, expires in the U.S., Canada and Europe in 2014.

Additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. We actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement.

In order to facilitate the Separation and allow Pfizer and our operations to continue with minimal interruption, Pfizer has licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. We license to Pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. In addition, Pfizer granted us a transitional license to use certain of Pfizer's trademarks and we granted Pfizer a transitional license to use certain of our trademarks for a period of time following the completion of the IPO.

Prior to the Separation, as a business unit of Pfizer, we had the ability to leverage Pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to identify, research and develop compounds suitable as new product candidates for the animal health field. As part of the Separation, we entered into an R&D collaboration and license agreement with Pfizer pursuant to which, subject to certain restrictions, we have continued access to Pfizer's compound library and database for a period of seven years and, subject to Pfizer's approval, we have the possibility to exclusively license compounds from Pfizer that we develop under the R&D collaboration and license agreement using portions of Pfizer's proprietary compound library and database. We believe that this agreement may help bolster our R&D capability to support the continued long-term viability of our product pipeline for animal health.

We seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. We currently maintain more than 9,500 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals.



Regulatory

The sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. To maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. Our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. In the majority of our markets, the relevant health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products.

United States

United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA).The regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the U.S. is the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM), housed within the FDA. All manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The FDA's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a Freedom of Information Summary. Post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the CVM's Surveillance and Compliance group. Reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. Additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source.

United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).The regulatory body in the U.S. for veterinary vaccines is the USDA. The USDA's Center for Veterinary Biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. All manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the Virus Serum Toxin Act. Post-approval monitoring of products is required. Reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements.

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).The main regulatory body in the U.S. for veterinary pesticides is the EPA. The EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. All manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause “unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment” as stated in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. Within the U.S., pesticide products that are approved by the EPA must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. Post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the EPA and some state regulatory agencies.

Outside of the United States

European Union (EU).The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is a decentralized agency of the EU, located in London. The agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by pharmaceutical companies for use in the EU. The agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. The Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products is responsible for scientific review of the submissions for pharmaceuticals and vaccines. The EMA makes the final decision on the approval of products. Once granted by the European Commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all EU and European Economic Area-European Free Trade Association states. A series of Directives, Guidelines and EU Pharmacopeia Monographs provide the requirements for approval in the EU. In general, these requirements are similar to those in the U.S., requiring demonstrated evidence of purity, safety, efficacy, and consistency of manufacturing processes.



8|






Brazil.The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Production and Supply (MAPA) is the regulatory body in Brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. MAPA's regulatory activities are conducted through the Secretary of Agricultural Defense and its Livestock Products Inspection Department. In addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the Federal Agriculture Superintendence. These activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. MAPA is one of the most active regulatory agencies in Latin America, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as Codex Alimentarius, World Organization for Animal Health and Committee of Veterinary Medicines for the Americas. MAPA was also recently invited to be a Latin American representative at International Cooperation on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products (VICH) meetings. Several normative instructions issued by MAPA have set regulatory trends in Latin America.

Australia.

Rest of world.Country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. With the exception of the EU, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the FDA, USDA, EU and other international animal health entities, including the World Organization for Animal Health, Codex Alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines.

Global policy and guidance

Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives.The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO). They provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. We work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. This in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain.

Advertising and promotion review.Promotion of ethical animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. These rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. We conduct a review of promotion material for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products.

Food Safety Inspection Service/generally recognized as safe.The FDA is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including “generally recognized as safe” substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. However, although the FDA has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the Food Safety and Inspection Service, the public health agency in the USDA, still retains, under the tenets of the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Products Inspection Act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products.



Employees

As of March 15, 2013, we have more than 9,300 employees worldwide, which includes approximately 3,900 employees in the U.S. and approximately 5,400 in other jurisdictions. Some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 50 union employees in the United States.



Environmental, Health and Safety

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. Due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. These authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions.

Certain environmental laws, such as the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. In addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental



9|






entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property.

We have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. In connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2012 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows:

•environmental-related capital expenditures - $2 million

•other environmental-related expenditures - $14 million

However, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. Such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. This increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products.

In connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. We have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all.

While we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.



Available Information

The company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. On our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Information relating to corporate governance at Zoetis, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Zoetis Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our Directors; and information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by email with our Directors; Board Committees; and Committee Charters are available on our website. We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Zoetis Inc., 5 Giralda Farms, Madison, New Jersey 07940. Information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website.

The information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this 2012 Annual Report.



Recent Developments

Senior notes offering

On January 28, 2013, we issued $3.65 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes (the senior notes offering) in a private placement, with an original issue discount of $10 million. The senior notes are comprised of $400 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.150% Senior Notes due 2016, $750 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.875% Senior Notes due 2018, $1.35 billion aggregate principal amount of our 3.250% Senior Notes due 2023 and $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of our 4.700% Senior Notes due 2043. We refer to this private placement as the “senior notes offering.”

We sold $2.65 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes through the initial purchasers in the senior notes offering and Pfizer transferred $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes, which we issued to Pfizer prior to the completion of the senior notes offering, to certain of the initial purchasers, who sold such senior notes through the initial purchasers in the senior notes offering. We paid an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds that we received in the senior notes offering to Pfizer prior to the completion of the IPO. We refer to the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes that we issued to Pfizer as the “Pfizer-owned notes.”

Instead of selling the Pfizer-owned notes directly to the initial purchasers for cash, Pfizer first exchanged the Pfizer-owned notes with certain of the initial purchasers, which we refer to, in such role, as the “debt-for-debt exchange parties,” for outstanding indebtedness of Pfizer held by the debt-for-debt exchange parties. The debt-for-debt exchange parties then sold the Pfizer-owned notes to the initial purchasers for cash. This debt-for-debt exchange occurred on the settlement date of the senior notes offering immediately prior to the settlement of the debt-for-debt exchange parties' sale of the Pfizer-owned notes to the initial purchasers. We refer to this exchange as the "debt-for-debt exchange."

The senior notes are governed by an indenture and supplemental indenture (collectively, the indenture) between us and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee. The indenture contains certain covenants, including limitations on our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur liens or engage in sale leaseback transactions. The indenture also contains restrictions on our ability to consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets. In addition, the indenture contains other customary terms, including certain events of default, upon the occurrence of which, the senior notes may be declared immediately due and payable.

Pursuant to the indenture, we are able to redeem the senior notes of any series, in whole or in part, at any time by paying a “make whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption. Pursuant to our tax matters agreement with Pfizer, we will



10|






not be permitted to redeem the 2023 notes pursuant to this optional redemption provision, except under limited circumstances. SeeItem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Relationship with Pfizer—Tax matters agreement. Upon the occurrence of a change of control of us and a downgrade of the senior notes below an investment grade rating by each of Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, we are, in certain circumstances, required to make an offer to purchase each of the senior notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes together with accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of repurchase.

Separation

On January 28, 2013, Pfizer transferred to us substantially all of the assets and liabilities of its animal health business in exchange for all of our Class A and Class B common stock, $1.0 billion of the $3.65 billion senior notes and an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the cash proceeds received by us from the remaining $2.65 billion senior notes issued.

For additional information regarding the Separation transactions see Notes to Combined Financial Statements—Note 19. Subsequent Events.

As a result of the Separation, we own or have the right to use substantially all of the assets that were previously used, or held for use, exclusively in Pfizer's animal health business, including the following:

•Intellectual Property. As part of the Separation, Pfizer assigned to us ownership of approximately 4,000 patents, 2,000 pending patent applications, and more than 9,500 trademark applications and registrations. In addition, Pfizer licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. We licensed to Pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. In addition, Pfizer granted us a transitional license to use certain of Pfizer's trademarks and we granted Pfizer a transitional license to use certain of our trademarks for a period of time.

•Manufacturing Facilities. Our global manufacturing network consists of 13 “anchor” manufacturing sites and 16 “satellite” manufacturing sites. Ownership of, or the existing leasehold interest in, these facilities was conveyed to us by Pfizer as part of the Separation. Among these 29 manufacturing sites is our facility in Guarulhos, Brazil, which we have leased back to Pfizer. Certain of our products are currently manufactured at 14 Pfizer manufacturing sites, including our Guarulhos, Brazil facility, and will continue to be supplied to us under the terms of a manufacturing and supply agreement we entered into with Pfizer.

•R&D Facilities. We have R&D operations co-located with certain of our manufacturing sites in Australia, Brazil, Belgium, Canada, China, Spain and the U.S. to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing sites. In addition, we maintain R&D operations at non-manufacturing locations in Brazil, Belgium, India and the U.S. As part of the Separation, Pfizer conveyed to us its interest in each of these R&D facilities, with the exception of our Mumbai, India facility, which we expect Pfizer to transfer to us for agreed upon cash consideration, and, in the interim, we will lease the facility from Pfizer.

•Employees. Substantially all employees of Pfizer who were substantially dedicated to the animal health business have become our employees. However, labor and employment laws or other business considerations in some jurisdictions may impede or delay Pfizer from transferring to us employees who are substantially dedicated to the animal health business. In those instances, to the extent permissible under applicable law, we and Pfizer have entered into mutually-acceptable arrangements, such as staffing agreements, to provide for continued operation of the business until such time as the employees in those jurisdictions can be transitioned to us.

We and Pfizer have entered into certain agreements that provide a framework for our ongoing relationship with Pfizer. For more information regarding our agreements with Pfizer, seeItem 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.

Initial public offering

OnFebruary 6, 2013, an IPO of99,015,000shares of our Class A common stock (including the exercise of the underwriters' over-allotment option) at a price of$26.00per share was completed. We did not receive any of the net proceeds from the IPO.

Instead of selling shares of our Class A common stock directly to the underwriters for cash in the IPO, Pfizer first exchanged the shares of our Class A common stock to be sold in the IPO with certain of the underwriters, which we refer to, in such role, as the “debt-for-equity exchange parties,” for outstanding indebtedness of Pfizer held by the debt-for-equity exchange parties. The debt-for-equity exchange parties then sold shares to the underwriters for cash. This debt-for-equity exchange occurred on the settlement date of the IPO immediately prior to the settlement of the debt-for-equity exchange parties' sale of the shares to the underwriters. We refer to this exchange as the "debt-for-equity exchange."

Immediately following the IPO, there were99,015,000outstanding shares of Class A common stock and400,985,000outstanding shares of Class B common stock. The rights of the holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock are identical, except with respect to voting and conversion rights. The holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock are each entitled to one vote per share for all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders other than with respect to the election of directors. With respect to the election of directors, the holders of Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share, and the holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock held by Pfizer or one of its subsidiaries is convertible into one share of Class A common stock at any time but will not be convertible if held by any other holder. Currently, Pfizer owns 100% of our outstanding Class B common stock and no shares of our Class A common stock, giving Pfizer80.2%of the economic interest and the combined voting power in shares of our outstanding common stock other than with respect to the election of directors and97.6%of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock with respect to the election of directors.

Commercial paper program

In February 2013, we entered into a commercial paper program with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. While no commercial paper has been issued under the commercial paper program at this time, we may incur indebtedness under this program in the future.



11|






Credit facility

In December 2012, we entered into a revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks providing for a five-year $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the “credit facility.” Subject to certain conditions, we have the right to increase the credit facility to up to $1.5 billion. The credit facility became available for borrowings upon the completion of the IPO, and there are currently no borrowings under this credit facility.

The credit facility bears interest, at our option, equal to either: (a) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the prime rate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., (ii) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (iii) a Eurodollar rate for a one month interest period plus 1.00%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin; or (b) a Eurodollar rate determined by reference to LIBOR, adjusted for statutory reserve requirements, plus an applicable margin. Additionally, we will pay a facility fee on the commitments under the credit facility, regardless of whether borrowings are outstanding under the credit facility. The applicable margins and the facility fee are determined based on public ratings of our senior unsecured non-credit enhanced long-term debt. Interest on borrowings and the facility fee are generally payable quarterly in arrears; however, for loans bearing interest based on a Eurodollar rate with a term shorter than three months, interest is payable at the end of such term.

We may voluntarily prepay loans and/or reduce the commitment under the credit facility, in whole or in part, without penalty or premium, subject to certain minimum amounts and increments and the payment of customary breakage costs. No mandatory prepayment is required under the credit facility.

The credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio of 4.35:1 for fiscal year 2013, 3.95:1 for fiscal year 2014, 3.50:1 for fiscal year 2015 and 3.00:1 thereafter. In addition, the credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with subsidiaries and incur priority indebtedness. The credit facility also contains customary events of default.

The Distribution

Pfizer has informed us that it may make a tax-free distribution to its stockholders of all or a portion of its remaining equity interest in us, which may include one or more distributions effected as a dividend to all Pfizer stockholders, one or more distributions in exchange for Pfizer shares or other securities, or any combination thereof. We refer to any such potential distribution as the Distribution.

Pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the Distribution will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code. Pfizer has no obligation to pursue or consummate any further dispositions of its ownership interest in us, including through the Distribution, by any specified date or at all. If pursued, the Distribution would be subject to various conditions, including receipt of any necessary regulatory or other approvals, the existence of satisfactory market conditions and the continuing application of Pfizer's private letter ruling from the IRS and the receipt of opinions of counsel to the effect that such Distribution would be tax-free to Pfizer and its stockholders. The conditions to the Distribution may not be satisfied, Pfizer may decide not to consummate the Distribution even if the conditions are satisfied or Pfizer may decide to waive one or more of these conditions and consummate the Distribution even if all of the conditions are not satisfied.



Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012

Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRSHRA) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the Government of Iran or other entities and individuals targeted by certain U.S. sanctions administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). In some instances, ITRSHRA requires companies to disclose these types of transactions even if they were permissible under U.S. law or were conducted by a non-U.S. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates.

As a global company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. During 2012, our activities included supplying animal health products for consumer use in Iran and Syria. U.S. law allows us to seek and rely on licenses issued by OFAC to supply these products to customers in these countries for animal use. We ship these products pursuant to such licenses, and we conduct our activities in accordance with our internal policies, which follow requirements set forth in the laws of the U.S. and other applicable jurisdictions. We will continue our global activities to enhance the health of animals in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our internal policies.

Subject to the discussion of Pfizer's activities below, to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2012 are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRSHRA, with the following possible exception:

Pursuant to U.S. government authorizations, during 2012, through a non-U.S. affiliate of Pfizer, Pfizer shipped animal health products to authorized customers in Iran. These shipments were backed by letters of credit issued by Bank Tejarat to a non-U.S. company acquired by Pfizer in 2011. The letters of credit were issued by Bank Tejarat and the Pfizer products were shipped to customers in Iran prior to the Bank's designation as a Specially Designated National (SDN) under Executive Order 13382. After Bank Tejarat's designation, Pfizer's non-U.S. affiliate sought payment from Bank Tejarat by presenting shipping documentation to the non-U.S. affiliate's bank in Europe and, as a result, subsequently received certain payments. Not all funds related to these transactions have been received from Bank Tejarat. Where required, Pfizer requested U.S. government authorization to process the funds received and to be received. For funds received in 2012, our estimated gross revenues associated with these transactions were euro 222,962. Other than as set forth in Notes to Combined Financial Statements—

Note 17. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information

, including the tables therein captioned

Selected Statement of Income Information, Geographic Information

and

Other Revenue Information

in our 2012 Annual Report, we do not allocate net profit on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. We believe Zoetis net profits attributable to these transactions in 2012 were a fraction of the gross revenues.



12|






Pursuant to ITRSHRA, we are also required to include disclosure in our 2012 Annual Report regarding our affiliates' activities. The following information regarding Pfizer's activities is based on information provided to us by Pfizer:

As a global biopharmaceutical company, Pfizer conducts business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. During 2012, Pfizer's activities included supplying life-saving medicines, nutritional supplements and other medical products (Pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in Iran and Syria. U.S. law allows Pfizer to seek and rely on licenses issued by OFAC to supply Pfizer products to customers in these countries, for both human and animal use. Pfizer ships these Pfizer products pursuant to such licenses, and Pfizer conducts its activities in accordance with its internal policies, which follow requirements set forth in the laws of the U.S. and other applicable jurisdictions. Pfizer plans to continue its global activities in a manner consistent with applicable laws and its internal policies.

To Pfizer's knowledge, none of its activities during 2012 are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRSHRA, with the possible exceptions of the activity related to Pfizer Animal Health set forth above and the following matters:

Pursuant to U.S. government authorizations, during 2012, Pfizer's Emerging Markets business unit, through a non-U.S. affiliate, shipped Pfizer products to authorized customers in Iran. The shipments were backed by letters of credit issued by Bank Tejarat prior to its designation as an SDN under Executive Order 13382. As a result of the shipments, which also occurred prior to Bank Tejarat's designation, Pfizer's non-U.S. affiliate sought payment from Bank Tejarat by presenting shipping documentation to the non-U.S. affiliate's bank in Europe. In some cases, the presentation of documents occurred before Bank Tejarat's designation, and in other cases after such designation. Not all funds related to these transactions have been received from Bank Tejarat. Pfizer has received U.S. government authorization for several of the foregoing transactions with Bank Tejarat and, where required, has requested U.S. government authorization for the other transactions with Bank Tejarat. For funds received in 2012, Pfizer's estimated gross revenues associated with these transactions were euro 397,071. Other than as set forth in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—

Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information

, including the tables therein captioned

Selected income statement information, Geographic Information

and

Significant Product Revenues

in Pfizer's 2012 Financial Report and in the table captioned

Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area

in the MD&A in Pfizer's 2012 Financial Report, Pfizer does not allocate net profits on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. Pfizer's net profits attributable to these transactions in 2012 were a fraction of its gross revenues.

Pursuant to U.S. government authorizations, during 2012, Pfizer's Emerging Markets business unit, through a non-U.S. affiliate, shipped Pfizer products to an authorized customer in Syria. These shipments were backed by a letter of credit issued by Syria International Islamic Bank (SIIB) prior to SIIB's designation as an SDN under Executive Order 13382. As a result of the shipment, which occurred prior to SIIB's designation as an SDN, Pfizer's non-U.S. affiliate sought payment from SIIB by presenting shipping documentation to the non-U.S. affiliate's bank in Europe. Both the presentation of documents and the resulting payment occurred after SIIB was designated as an SDN. Where required, Pfizer has requested U.S. government authorization to process the funds received. Pfizer's estimated gross revenues in 2012 associated with this transaction were euro 315,960. As noted above, Pfizer does not allocate net profits on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. Pfizer's net profits attributable to this transaction in 2012 were a fraction of its gross revenues.

Pfizer has informed its customers that, in connection with future transactions with Pfizer, Bank Tejarat, SIIB and any other banks designated as SDNs under Executive Order 13382 are not to be used.



