ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

Regulatory Risks

We are subject to complex and evolving global regulations that could harm our business and financial results.

As a global payments technology company, we are subject to complex and evolving regulations that govern our operations. SeeItem 1—Business—Government Regulationfor more information on the most significant areas of regulation that affect our business. The impact of these regulations on us, our clients, and other third parties could limit our ability to enforce our payments system rules; require us to adopt new rules or change existing rules; affect our existing contractual arrangements; increase our compliance costs; require us to make our technology or




Tableof Contents

intellectual property available to third parties, including competitors, in an undesirable manner; and reduce our revenue opportunities. As discussed in more detail below, we may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, preferred routing, domestic processing requirements, currency conversion, point-of-sale transaction rules and practices, privacy, data use or protection, licensing requirements, and associated product technology. As a result, the Visa operating rules and our other contractual commitments may differ from country to country or by product offering. Complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and could reduce our revenue opportunities.

If widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services, fees and other important aspects of our business in the regions where we operate. Our compliance programs and policies are designed to support our compliance with a wide array of regulations and laws, such as anti-money laundering, anti-corruption, competition, privacy and sanctions, and we continually enhance our compliance programs as regulations evolve. However, we cannot guarantee that our practices will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. In the event our controls should fail or we are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal penalties, litigation, investigations and proceedings, and damage to our global brands and reputation. Furthermore, the evolving and increased regulatory focus on the payments industry could negatively impact or reduce the number of Visa products our clients issue, the volume of payments we process, our revenues, our brands, our competitive positioning, our ability to use our intellectual property to differentiate our products and services, the quality and types of products and services we offer, the countries in which our products are used, and the types of consumers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products, all of which could harm our business.

Increased scrutiny and regulation of the global payments industry, including with respect to interchange reimbursement fees, merchant discount rates, operating rules, risk management protocols and other related practices, could harm our business.

Regulators around the world have been establishing or increasing their authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments industry. SeeItem 1—Business —Government Regulationfor more information.In the U.S. and many other jurisdictions, we have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees. Even though we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a payment transaction (in the context of credit and debit transactions, those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers; the reverse is true for certain transactions like ATM), interchange reimbursement fees are a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. Consequently, changes to these fees, whether voluntarily or by mandate, can substantially affect our overall payments volumes and revenues.



Finally, in Australia, the Reserve Bank is in the process of reviewing the country’s payment system regulations, which could potentially result in lower and/or additional interchange caps and other restrictions on our business.

When we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system less attractive. This may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems, such as our competitors’ closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. We believe some issuers may react to such regulations by charging new or higher fees, or reducing certain benefits to consumers, which make our products less appealing to consumers. Some acquirers may elect to charge higher merchant discount rates (MDR) regardless of the Visa interchange reimbursement rate, causing merchants not to




Tableof Contents

accept our products or to steer customers to alternate payments systems or forms of payment. In addition, in an effort to reduce the expense of their payment programs, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us, including reductions in the fees that we charge, which may directly impact our revenues.

We are also subject to central bank oversight in some markets, including, Brazil, Russia, the United Kingdom and within the European Union. This oversight could result in new governance, reporting, licensing, cybersecurity, processing infrastructure, capital, or credit risk management requirements. We could also be required to adopt policies and practices designed to mitigate settlement and liquidity risks, including increased requirements to maintain sufficient levels of capital and financial resources locally, as well as localized risk management or governance.They could also include new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system.Additionally, regulators in other jurisdictions are considering or adopting approaches based on similar regulatory principles.

Regulators around the world increasingly take note of each other’s approaches to regulating the payments industry. Consequently, a development in one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in another. The risks created by a new law, regulation or regulatory outcome in one jurisdiction have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another jurisdiction or in other product offerings. For example, our settlement with the European Commission on cross-border interchange rates has drawn some preliminary attention of regulators in other parts of the world. Similarly, new regulations involving one product offering may prompt regulators to extend the regulations to other product offerings. For example, credit payments could become subject to similar regulation as debit payments (or vice versa). For instance, the Reserve Bank of Australia initially capped credit interchange, but subsequently capped debit interchange as well.

Government-imposed obligations and/or restrictions on international payment systems may prevent us from competing against providers in certain countries, including significant markets such as China, India and Russia.

Governments in a number of jurisdictions shield domestic payment card networks, brands, and processors from international competition by imposing market access barriers and preferential domestic regulations. To varying degrees, these policies and regulations affect the terms of competition in the marketplace and undermine the competitiveness of international payments networks. Public authorities may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or mandate that domestic payments or data processing be performed entirely within that country, which could prevent us from managing the end-to-end processing of certain transactions.

In Russia, legislation effectively prevents us from processing domestic transactions. The central bank controlled national payment card system (NSPK) is the only entity allowed to process domestically. In China, UnionPay remains the sole processor of domestic payment card transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark. Although we have filed an application with the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) to operate a Bank Card Clearing Institution (BCCI) in China, the timing and the procedural steps for approval remain uncertain. The approval process might require several years, and there is no guarantee that the license to operate a BCCI will be approved or, if we obtain such license, that we will be able to successfully compete with domestic payments networks.






Tableof Contents

Regulatory initiatives in India also suggest growing nationalistic priorities, including a data localization mandate passed by the government, which has cost implications for us and could affect our ability to effectively compete with domestic payment providers. In Europe, with the support of the European Central Bank, a group of European banks have announced their intent to launch a pan-European payment system, the European Payments Initiative or EPI, with the purported intent to reduce the risks of disintermediation by international technology companies and continued reliance on international payments networks for intra-Europe card transactions. Furthermore, regional groups of countries, such as the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and a number of countries in Southeast Asia, are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the processing of regional transactions. The African Development Bank has also indicated an interest in supporting national payment systems in its efforts to expand financial inclusion and strengthen regional financial stability. Finally, some countries such as South Africa are mandating on-shore processing of domestic transactions. Geopolitical events, including sanctions, trade tensions or other types of activities could potentially intensify any or all of these activities, which could adversely affect our business.

Due to our inability to manage the end-to-end processing of transactions for cards in certain countries (e.g., Russia and Thailand), we depend on our close working relationships with our clients or third-party processors to ensure transactions involving our products are processed effectively. Our ability to do so may be adversely affected by regulatory requirements and policies pertaining to transaction routing or on-shore processing.

Co-badging and co-residency regulations may pose additional challenges in markets where Visa competes with national networks for issuance and routing. For example, in China, certain banks have issued dual-branded cards for which domestic transactions in China are processed by UnionPay and transactions outside of China are processed by us or other international payments networks. The PBOC is contemplating that dual-branded cards could be phased out over time as new licenses are issued to international companies to participate in China’s domestic payments market. Accordingly, we have been working with Chinese issuers to issue Visa-only branded cards for international travel, and later for domestic transactions after we obtain a BCCI license. However, notwithstanding such efforts, the phase out of dual-branded cards may decrease our payment volumes and impact the revenue we generate in China.

Mir and UnionPay have grown rapidly in Russia and China, respectively, and are actively pursuing international expansion plans, which could potentially lead to regulatory pressures on our international routing rule (which requires that international transactions on Visa cards be routed over VisaNet). Furthermore, although regulatory barriers shield Mir and UnionPay from competition in Russia and China, respectively, alternate payment providers such as Alipay and WeChat Pay have rapidly expanded into ecommerce, offline, and cross-border payments, which could make it difficult for us to compete even if our license is approved in China. Recently, with strong backing from China’s government, a new digital transaction routing system known as NetsUnion was established. The PBOC allowed Alipay and other digital payment providers to invest in NetsUnion. It and other such systems could have a competitive advantage in comparison with international payments networks.

Finally, central banks, including those in Australia, Brazil and Russia, are in the process of developing or expanding national real-time payments networks with the goal of driving a greater number of domestic transactions onto these systems.Similarly, an increasing number of jurisdictions are exploring the concept of building central bank digital currencies for retail payments.If successfully deployed, these national payment platforms and digital currencies could have significant implications for Visa’s domestic and cross-border payments, including potential disintermediation.

In general, national laws that protect or otherwise support domestic providers or processing may increase our costs; decrease our payments volumes and impact the revenue we generate in those countries; decrease the number of Visa products issued or processed; impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities and controlling the quality of the services supporting our brands; restrict our activities; limit our growth and the ability to introduce new products, services and innovations; force us to leave countries or prevent us from entering new markets; and create new competitors, all of which could harm our business.

Laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may impede our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us.

Our business relies on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data across national borders. Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data continue to evolve, and regulatory scrutiny in this area is increasing around the world. For example, in July 2020 the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) ruled to invalidate the U.S./EU Privacy Shield - a legal




Tableof Contents

framework that allowed participating companies to transfer personal data from EU member states to the U.S.



Visa has never used the Privacy Shield framework for its transfers, and relies instead on Standard Contractual Clauses. However, the CJEU ruling made clear that these transfer mechanisms will be subject to additional scrutiny as well. Significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. For example, the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) extends the scope of the EU data protection law to all companies processing data of EU residents, regardless of the company’s location. The law requires companies to comply with a broad range of requirements regarding the handling of personal data. Although we have a global data privacy program that addresses the requirements applicable to our international business, our ongoing efforts to comply with GDPR and rapidly emerging privacy and data protection laws (such as the California Consumer Privacy Act and the Brazilian General Data Protection Law) may increase the complexity of our compliance operations, entail substantial expenses, divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could limit the services we are able to offer. I

nconsistent local and regional regulations restricting location, movement, collection, use and management of data may limit our ability to innovate or compete in certain jurisdictions.

For example, India has adopted a data localization law that requires all payment system operators to store domestic transaction data only in India. Such data localization requirements have cost implications for us, impact our ability to utilize the efficiencies and value of our global network, and could affect our strategy. Furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability.

We may be subject to tax examinations or disputes, or changes in tax laws.

We exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may limit their accuracy. We are currently under examination by, or in disputes with, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, the UK’s HM Revenue & Customs as well as tax authorities in other jurisdictions, and we may be subject to additional examinations or disputes in the future. Relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. Failure to sustain our position in these matters could harm our cash flow and financial position. In addition, changes in existing laws in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, which may be more likely if there is a change in the U.S. administration, or changes resulting from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Programme of Work, related to the revision of profit allocation and nexus rules and design of a system to ensure multinational enterprises pay a minimum level of tax, may also materially affect our effective tax rate. A substantial increase in our tax payments could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. See alsoNote 19—Income Taxesto our consolidated financial statements included inItem 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Dataof this report.

Litigation Risks

We may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or investigations, despite certain protections that are in place.

We are involved in numerous litigation matters, investigations, and proceedings asserted by civil litigants, governments, and enforcement bodies investigating or alleging, among other things, violations of competition and antitrust law, consumer protection law, privacy law, and intellectual property law (these are referred to as “actions” in this section). Details of the most significant actions we face are described more fully inNote 20—Legal Mattersto our consolidated financial statements included inItem 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Dataof this report. These actions are inherently uncertain, expensive, and disruptive to our operations. In the event we are found liable in any material action, particularly in a large class action lawsuit, such as one involving an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages in the U.S., or we incur liability arising from a government investigation, we may be required to pay significant awards, settlements, or fines. In addition, settlement terms, judgments, or pressures resulting from actions may harm our business by requiring us to modify, among other things, the default interchange reimbursement rates we set, the Visa operating rules or the way in which we enforce those rules, our fees or pricing, or the way we do business. These actions or their outcomes may also influence regulators, investigators, governments, or civil litigants in the same or other jurisdictions, which may lead to additional actions




Tableof Contents

against Visa. Finally, we are required by some of our commercial agreements to indemnify other entities for litigation brought against them, even if Visa is not a defendant.

For certain actions like those that are U.S. covered litigation or VE territory covered litigation, as described inNote 5—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility PlansandNote 20—Legal Mattersto our consolidated financial statements included inItem 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Dataof this report, we have certain financial protections pursuant to the respective retrospective responsibility plans. The two retrospective responsibility plans are different in the protections they provide and the mechanisms by which we are protected. The failure of one or both of the retrospective responsibility plans to adequately insulate us from the impact of such settlements, judgments, losses, or liabilities could materially harm our financial condition or cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent.

Business Risks

The extent to which the COVID-19 outbreak and measures taken in response thereto impact our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict.

The global impacts of the COVID-19 outbreak and related government actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus have been weighing on the macroeconomic environment, and have significantly increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity. The outbreak has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place or total lock-down orders and business limitations and shutdowns that began in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020.

The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including restricting employee travel, implementing office closures, having our employees work remotely for the rest of 2020 and cancelling physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or as we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers and business partners. The COVID-19 outbreak has also impacted scheduled events in which Visa is a sponsor as event organizers consult with health experts, government authorities and other stakeholders to prioritize the health and wellbeing of our global community. This has caused us to make modifications to some of our planned activities and has impacted some of our marketing initiatives.

Cross-border volume continues to be heavily impacted by the decline in travel. International cross-border transaction revenues represent a significant part of our revenue. In addition, we may experience financial losses due to a number of operational factors, including:

•merchant, acquirer and issuer failures and credit settlement risk, particularly with respect to the retail, travel and hospitality industries which have been impacted especially hard by the pandemic, including airlines, cruise ships, hotels, restaurants and entertainment events. The closings and/or failures of a large number of these businesses could result in financial stress on our acquiring partners, and potentially lead to settlement failures, triggering Visa’s indemnification obligations. It could also lead to bankruptcies that may result in impairments to our assets or our receivables to be written-off;

•clients may re-negotiate existing agreements or seek early renewal of agreements due to the impact of the outbreak on their business, payments volume and incentives;

•the mix of Visa’s clients or the amount of business we do with certain clients may change;

•third party disruptions, including potential outages at network providers, call centers and other suppliers;

•increased cyber and payment fraud risk related to COVID-19, as cybercriminals attempt DDoS related attacks, phishing scams and other disruptive actions, given the shift to online banking, e-commerce and other online activity, as well as more employees working remotely as a result of the outbreak;

•challenges to the availability and reliability of our network due to changes to normal operations, including the possibility of one or more clusters of COVID-19 cases occurring at our data centers, affecting our employees, or affecting the systems or employees of our issuers, acquirers or merchants; and

•additional regulatory requirements, including, for example, government initiatives or requests to reduce or eliminate payments fees or other costs. A number of countries have taken steps to temporarily cap




Tableof Contents

interchange or other fees on electronic payments as part of their COVID-19 economic relief measures. It is possible that some or all of these caps may become permanent over time, or that we see governments introduce additional and/or new pricing caps in future economic relief initiatives. In addition, proponents of interchange and/or MDR regulation may try to position government intervention as necessary to support recovery efforts. In an overall soft global economy, such pricing measures could result in additional financial pressures on our business.

There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect COVID-19 may have on our business, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of the outbreak is highly uncertain and subject to change. While we have taken measures to modify our business practices and reduce operating expenses, including scaling back hiring plans, restricting travel, lowering marketing spend and the use of external resources, the impact that COVID-19 will have on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the longer term remains difficult to predict due to numerous uncertainties, including the transmissibility, severity and duration of the outbreak, the effectiveness of social distancing measures or actions that are voluntarily adopted by the public or required by governments or public health authorities, the development and availability of effective treatments or vaccines, and the impact to our employees and our operations, the business of our clients, supplier and business partners, and other factors.

Consumers affected by COVID-19 may continue to demonstrate changed behavior even after the COVID-19 outbreak has subsided. For example, consumers may decrease discretionary spending on a permanent or long-term basis, certain industries may take longer to recover (particularly those that rely on travel or large gatherings) as consumers may be hesitant to return to full social interaction, and we may continue to see consumers decrease spending on credit products as economic worries continue, all of which may have adverse implications for our business.

As a result, we may continue to experience materially adverse impacts to our business as a result of the virus’ global economic impact, including lower domestic and cross border spending trends, the availability of credit, adverse impacts on our liquidity, and any recessionary conditions that persist, and exacerbate many of the other known risks described in this “Risk Factors” section.

We face intense competition in our industry.

The global payments space is intensely competitive. As technology evolves, new competitors or methods of payment emerge, and existing clients and competitors assume different roles. Our products compete with cash, checks, electronic funds, virtual currency payments, global or multi-regional networks, other domestic and closed-loop payments systems, and alternative payment providers primarily focused on enabling payments through ecommerce and mobile channels. As the global payments space becomes more complex, we face increasing competition from our clients, other emerging payment providers such as fintechs, other digital payments, technology companies that have developed payments systems enabled through online activity in ecommerce and mobile channels, as well as governments in a number of jurisdictions (e.g. Brazil, India and Russia), that are developing, supporting and/or operating national schemes, real time payment networks, and other payment platforms.

Our competitors may develop substantially better technology, have more widely adopted delivery channels or have greater financial resources. They may offer more effective, innovative or a wider range of programs, products, and services. They may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies that result in broader brand recognition, and greater use, including with respect to issuance and merchant acceptance. They may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. Moreover, even if we successfully adapt to technological change and the proliferation of alternative types of payment services by developing and offering our own services in these areas, such services may provide less favorable financial terms for us than we currently receive from VisaNet transactions, which could hurt our financial results and prospects.

Certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures, or participate in different market segments. Those business models may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to regulatory, technological, and other developments. In some cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit, or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for transactions within certain countries and regions. Some of our competitors, including American Express, Discover, private-label card networks, virtual currency providers, technology companies that enable the exchange of digital assets, and certain alternate payments systems like Alipay and WeChat Pay, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. Government actions or initiatives such as the Dodd-Frank Act, the IFR in Europe, or real time payment initiatives by governments such as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s FedNow or the Central Bank of




Tableof Contents

Brazil’s Pix system may provide competitors with increased opportunities to derive competitive advantages from these business models, and may create new competitors, including in some cases the government itself. Similarly, regulation in Europe under PSD2 and the IFR may require us to open up access to, and allow participation in, our network to additional participants, and reduce the infrastructure investment and regulatory burden on competitors. We also run the risk of disintermediation due to factors such as emerging technologies, including mobile payments, alternate payment credentials, other ledger technologies or payment forms, and by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that prefer not to use our payments network for processing transactions. For example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly with issuers and acquirers.

We expect the competitive landscape to continue to shift and evolve. For example:

•We, along with our competitors, clients, network participants, and others are developing or participating in alternate payment networks or products, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services, P2P payment services, real-time and faster payment initiatives, and payment services that permit ACH or direct debits from or to consumer checking accounts, that could either reduce our role or otherwise disintermediate us from the transaction processing or the value added services we provide to support such processing. Examples include initiatives from The Clearing House, an association consisting of large financial institutions that has developed its own faster payments system; Early Warning Services, which operates Zelle, a bank-offered alternative network that provides another platform for faster funds or real-time payments across a variety of payment types, including P2P, corporate and government disbursement, bill pay and deposit check transactions; and crypto-currency or stablecoin-based payments initiatives.

•similarly, many countries are developing or promoting domestic networks, switches and real-time payment systems (e.g. India, Russia, as well as Europe). To the extent these governments mandate local banks and merchants to use and accept these systems for domestic or other transactions, prohibit international payments networks, like Visa, from participating on those systems, and/or impose restrictions or prohibitions, on international payments networks from offering payment services on such transactions, we could face the risk of our business being disintermediated in those countries. For example, in Argentina, the government recently issued a regulation that mandates local acquirers to use debit card credentials to initiate payment transactions on a government-sponsored national real-time payment system.Furthermore, in some regions (e.g., Southeast Asia; the Middle East), through intergovernmental organizations such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the GCC, some countries are looking into cross-border connectivity of such domestic systems;

•parties that process our transactions may try to minimize or eliminate our position in the payments value chain;

•parties that access our payment credentials, tokens and technologies, including clients, technology solution providers or others might be able to migrate account holders and other clients to alternate payment methods or use our payment credentials, tokens and technologies to establish or help bolster alternate payment methods and platforms;

•participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enable or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; and

•new or revised industry standards related to online checkout and web payments, cloud-based payments, tokenization or other payments-related technologies set by individual countries, regions or organizations such as the International Organization for Standardization, American National Standards Institute, World Wide Web Consortium, European Card Standards Group, PCI Co, Nexo and EMVCo may result in additional costs and expenses for Visa and its clients, or otherwise negatively impact the functionality and competitiveness of our products and services.

As the competitive landscape is quickly evolving, we may not be able to foresee or respond sufficiently to emerging risks associated with new businesses, products, services and practices. We may be asked to adjust our local rules and practices, develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services, or agree to business arrangements that may be less protective of Visa’s proprietary technology and interests in order to compete and we may face increasing operational costs and risk of litigation concerning intellectual property. Our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could harm our business and prospects for future growth.




Tableof Contents

Our revenues and profits are dependent on our client and merchant base, which may be costly to win, retain, and maintain.

Our financial institution clients and merchants can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. While we have certain contractual protections, our clients, including some of our largest clients, generally have flexibility to issue non-Visa products. Further, in certain circumstances, our financial institution clients may decide to terminate our contractual relationship on relatively short notice without paying significant early termination fees. Because a significant portion of our net revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, the loss of business from any one of these larger clients could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For more information, please seeNote 14—Enterprise-wide Disclosures and Concentration of Businessto our consolidated financial statements included inItem 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Dataof this report.

In addition, we face intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our financial institution clients. In order to stay competitive, we may need to adjust our pricing or offer incentives to our clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments, adapt to regulatory changes, and expand their use and acceptance of Visa products and services. These include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, rebates, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing, and other support payments that impact our revenues and profitability. In addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to win routing preference in situations where other network functionality is enabled on our products and there is a choice of network routing options. Market pressures on pricing, incentives, fee discounts, and rebates could moderate our growth. If we are not able to implement cost containment and productivity initiatives in other areas of our business or increase our volumes in other ways to offset or absorb the financial impact of these incentives, fee discounts, and rebates, it may harm our net revenues and profits.

In addition, it may be difficult or costly for us to acquire or conduct business with financial institutions or merchants that have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors. These financial institutions or merchants may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients or merchants. In addition, if there is a consolidation or acquisition of one or more of our largest clients or co-brand partners by a financial institution client or merchant with a strong relationship with one of our competitors, it could result in our business shifting to a competitor, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our business.

Merchants’ and processors’ continued push to lower acceptance costs and challenge industry practices could harm our business.

We depend on relationships with financial institutions, acquirers, processors, merchants, and other third parties.

As noted above, our relationships with industry participants are complex and require us to balance the interests of multiple third parties. For instance, we depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with account holders and merchants to support our programs and services, and




Tableof Contents

thereby compete effectively in the marketplace. We engage in discussions with merchants, acquirers, commerce platforms and processors to provide incentives to promote routing preference and acceptance growth. We also engage in many payment card co-branding efforts with merchants, who receive incentives from us. As emerging participants such as fintechs enter the payments industry, we engage in discussions to address the role they may play in the ecosystem, whether as, for example, an issuer, merchant, commerce platform or digital wallet provider. As these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. In addition, we depend on our clients and third parties, including network partners, vendors and suppliers, to submit, facilitate and process transactions properly, provide various services associated with our payments network on our behalf, and otherwise adhere to our operating rules and applicable laws. To the extent that such parties fail to perform or deliver adequate services, it may result in negative experiences for account holders or others when using their Visa-branded payment products, which could harm our business and reputation.

Our business could be harmed if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, if events occur that have the potential to damage our brand or reputation, or if we experience brand disintermediation.

Global economic, political, market, health and social events or conditions may harm our business.

A decline in economic, political, market, health and social conditions could impact our clients as well, and their decisions could reduce the number of cards, accounts, and credit lines of their account holders, which ultimately impact our revenues. They may also implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate marketing budgets, and decrease spending on optional or enhanced value added services from us. Any events or conditions that impair the functioning of the financial markets, tighten the credit market, or lead to a downgrade of our current credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, which could affect our liquidity and capital resources, or significantly increase our cost of capital. If clients default on their settlement obligations, it may also impact our liquidity. Any of these events could adversely affect our volumes and revenue.




Tableof Contents

Our indemnification obligation to fund settlement losses of our clients exposes us to significant risk of loss and may reduce our liquidity.

We indemnify issuers and acquirers for settlement losses they may suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to honor its settlement obligations in accordance with the Visa operating rules. In certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. This indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the timing difference between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. Our indemnification exposure is generally limited to the amount of unsettled Visa card payment transactions at any point in time and any subsequent amounts that may fall due relating to adjustments for previously processed transactions. Concurrent settlement failures or insolvencies involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients, or systemic operational failures could negatively impact our financial position. Even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure or insolvency, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. This could expose us to significant losses and harm our business. SeeNote 12—Settlement Guarantee Managementto our consolidated financial statements included inItem 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Dataof this report.

The United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union could harm our business and financial results.

In June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union (commonly referred to as “Brexit”). In March 2017, the UK government initiated the exit process under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union, commencing a period of up to two years for the United Kingdom and the other EU member states to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal, which was subsequently postponed until January 31, 2020, at which point the United Kingdom formally withdrew from the EU. Since then the United Kingdom has continued to participate in the EU from a trade and economic perspective while the parties seek to negotiate a trade deal. The deadline for agreeing to a trade deal is December 31, 2020. Uncertainty over the terms of the United Kingdom’s continued participation in the European Union could cause political and economic uncertainty in the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe, which could harm our business and financial results.

Brexit will lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations in the United Kingdom and European Union. We, as well as our clients who have significant operations in the United Kingdom, may incur additional costs and expenses as we adapt to potentially divergent regulatory frameworks from the rest of the European Union and as a result, our Visa operating rules and contractual commitments in the United Kingdom and the rest of the European Union may be impacted. In addition, applications will need to be made for regulatory authorization and permission in separate EU member states following the post-Brexit transition period. These factors may impact our ability to operate and process data in the European Union and United Kingdom seamlessly. This and other Brexit-related issues may require changes to our legal entity structure and/or operations in the United Kingdom and the European Union. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could harm our business and financial results.

Technology and Cybersecurity Risks

Failure to anticipate, adapt to, or keep pace with, new technologies in the payments industry could harm our business and impact future growth.

The global payments industry is undergoing significant and rapid technological change, including mobile and other proximity and in-app payment technologies, ecommerce, tokenization, cryptocurrencies, distributed ledger and blockchain technologies, and new authentication technologies such as biometrics, 3D Secure 2.0 and dynamic cardholder verification values or dCVV2. As a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve, including those developed by Visa such as our cross-border B2B payment service, Visa B2B Connect. In addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we work closely with third parties, including potential competitors, for the development of, and access to, new technologies. It is difficult, however, to predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. Moreover, some of the new technologies could be subject to intellectual property-related lawsuits or claims, potentially impacting our development efforts and/or requiring us to obtain licenses. If we or our partners fail to adapt and keep pace with new technologies in the payments space in a timely manner, it could harm our ability to




Tableof Contents

compete, decrease the value of our products and services to our clients, impact our intellectual property or licensing rights, harm our business and impact our future growth.

A disruption, failure or breach of our networks or systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could harm our business.

Our cybersecurity and processing systems, as well as those of financial institutions, merchants, and third-party service providers, have experienced in limited instances and may continue to experience errors, interruptions, delays or damage from a number of causes, including power outages, hardware, software and network failures, computer viruses, malware or other destructive software, internal design, manual or usage errors, cyber-attacks, terrorism, workplace violence or wrongdoing, catastrophic events, natural disasters, severe weather conditions and other effects from climate change.

Furthermore, our visibility and role in the global payments industry may also put our company at a greater risk of being targeted by hackers. In the normal course of our business, we have been the target of malicious cyber-attack attempts. We have been, and may continue to be, impacted by attacks and data security breaches of financial institutions, merchants, or third-party processors. We are also aware of instances where nation states have sponsored attacks against some of our financial institution clients, and other instances where merchants and issuers have encountered substantial data security breaches affecting their customers, some of whom were Visa account holders. Such attacks and breaches have resulted, and may continue to result in, fraudulent activity and ultimately, financial losses to Visa’s clients, and it is difficult to predict the direct or indirect impact of future attacks or breaches to our business.

These events could significantly disrupt our operations; impact our clients and consumers; damage our reputation and brand; result in litigation or claims, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, and increased regulatory review or scrutiny, investigations, actions, fines or penalties; result in damages or changes to our business practices; decrease the overall use and acceptance of our products; decrease our volume, revenues and future growth prospects; and be costly, time consuming and difficult to remedy. In the event of damage or disruption to our business due to these occurrences, we may not be able to successfully and quickly recover all of our critical business functions, assets, and data through our business continuity program. Furthermore, while we maintain insurance, our coverage may not sufficiently cover all types of losses or claims that may arise.

Structural and Organizational Risks

We may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or strategic investments, and may face risks and uncertainties as a result.

As part of our overall business strategy, we make acquisitions and strategic investments. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our current and future acquisitions and strategic investments and they may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:

•disruption to our ongoing business, including diversion of resources and management’s attention from our existing business;




Tableof Contents

•greater than expected investment of resources or operating expenses;

•failure to develop the acquired business adequately;

•the data security, cybersecurity and operational resilience posture of our acquired companies, or companies we invest in or partner with, may not be adequate;

•difficulty, expense or failure of implementing controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company;

•challenges of integrating new employees, business cultures, business systems and technologies;

•failure to retain employees, clients or partners of the acquired business;

•in the case of foreign acquisitions, risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages;

•disruptions, costs, liabilities, judgments, settlements or business pressures resulting from litigation matters, investigations or legal proceedings involving the acquisitions or strategic investments. For more information on the proposed acquisition of Plaid, please seeItem 1—Business—Mergers and Acquisitions and Strategic Investments;

•the inability to pursue aspects of the acquired business due to outcomes in litigation matters, investigations or legal proceedings;

•failure to obtain the necessary government or other approvals at all, on a timely basis or without the imposition of burdensome conditions or restrictions;

•the economic, political, regulatory and compliance risks associated with entering into a new business or operating in new regions or countries. For more information on regulatory risks, please seeItem 1—Business—Government RegulationsandItem 1A—Risk Factors—Regulatory Risksabove;

•discovery of unidentified issues and related liabilities after the acquisition or investment was made;

•failure to mitigate the deficiencies and liabilities of the acquired business;

•dilutive issuance of equity securities, if new securities are issued;

•the incurrence of debt;

•negative impact on our financial position and/or statement of operations; and

•anticipated benefits, synergies or value of the investment or acquisition not materializing.

We may be unable to attract, hire, and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management.

The talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. Our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. We may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. Ongoing changes in laws and policies regarding immigration and work authorizations have made it more difficult for employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which we have operations and could continue to impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, or to maintain a corporate culture that fosters innovation, and collaboration could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success.

The conversions of our class B and class C common stock or series A, B and C preferred stock into shares of class A common stock would result in voting dilution to, and could impact the market price of, our existing class A common stock.




Tableof Contents

Holders of our class B and C common stock and series A, B and C preferred stock may have different interests than our class A common stockholders concerning certain significant transactions.

Although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class B and C common stock and, in certain specified circumstances, holders of our series A, B and C preferred stock, can vote on certain significant transactions. With respect to our class B and C common stock, these transactions include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under Delaware law. With respect to our series A, B and C preferred stock, voting rights are limited to proposed consolidations or mergers in which holders of the series A, B and C preferred stock would receive shares of stock or other equity securities with preferences, rights and privileges that are not substantially identical to the preferences, rights and privileges of the applicable series of preferred stock; or, in the case of series B and C preferred stock, holders would receive securities, cash or other property that is different from what our class A common stockholders would receive. Because the holders of classes of capital stock other than class A common stock are our current and former financial institution clients, they may have interests that diverge from our class A common stockholders. As a result, the holders of these classes of capital stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class A common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with interests of our class A common stockholders.

Delaware law, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could make a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control difficult.

Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and our capital structure could delay or prevent a merger, takeover attempt, or change in control that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, except for limited exceptions:

•no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class A common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance;

•no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis;

•the affirmative votes of the class B and C common stock and series A, B and C preferred stock are required for certain types of consolidations or mergers;

•our stockholders may only take action during a stockholders’ meeting and may not act by written consent; and

•only the board of directors, Chairman, or CEO may call a special meeting of stockholders.






Tableof Contents

