ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The risks listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the Bancorp’s financial condition, the results of its
operations, or its business. Some of these risks are interrelated, and the occurrence of one or more of them may exacerbate the effect of others.

RISKS RELATING TO ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS

Weakness in the U.S. economy, including within Fifth Third’s geographic footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third in the past
and may adversely affect Fifth Third in the future.

If the strength of the U.S. economy in general or the strength of the local
economies in which Fifth Third conducts operations declines, this could result in, among other things, a decreased demand for Fifth Third’s products and services, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a
resultant effect on Fifth Third’s loan portfolio and ALLL and in the receipt of lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. These factors could result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses in
future periods, which could materially adversely affect Fifth Third’s financial condition and results of operations.

Global
financial conditions could hamper economic recovery or contribute to recessionary economic conditions and severe stress in the financial markets, including in the United States. Should the U.S. economy be adversely impacted by these factors, the
likelihood for loan and asset growth at U.S. financial institutions, like Fifth Third, may deteriorate.

The global financial
markets continue to be strained as a result of economic slowdowns, geopolitical concerns and the related path of commodity prices and interest rates. Divergence in economic growth in the U.S. and international economies and the resulting differences
in monetary policy are placing strains on financial markets and strengthening the U.S. dollar. The relative strength of the U.S. dollar may continue to negatively impact the U.S. manufacturing sector. These factors could negatively impact the U.S.
economy and affect the stability of global financial markets.

Changes in interest rates could affect Fifth Third’s income and
cash flows.

Fifth Third’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned
on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Fifth Third’s
control, including general economic conditions in the U.S. or abroad and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the
origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may
be magnified if Fifth Third does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third and its shareholders.

Changes and trends in the capital markets may affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows.

Fifth Third enters into and maintains trading and investment positions in the capital markets on its own behalf and manages
investment positions on behalf of its customers. These investment positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and profits Fifth Third derives from managing proprietary and customer trading and investment positions are dependent
on market prices. Market changes and trends may result in a decline in wealth and asset management revenue or investment or trading losses that may impact Fifth Third. Losses on behalf of its customers could expose Fifth Third to litigation, credit
risks or loss of revenue from those clients and customers. Additionally, losses in Fifth Third’s trading and investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely affect Fifth Third’s income, cash
flows and funding costs.

Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to Fifth Third could adversely
affect financial markets generally and have direct and indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third.

Fifth Third has exposure to
counterparties in the financial services industry and other industries, and routinely executes transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional
clients. Many of Fifth Third’s transactions with other financial institutions expose Fifth Third to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. In addition, Fifth Third’s credit risk may be affected when the collateral
it holds cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading,
clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other
institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Bancorp interacts on a
daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Fifth Third.

Fifth Third’s stock price is volatile.

Fifth Third’s stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the
future. These factors include, without limitation:

●Actual or anticipated variations in earnings;

●Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;

●Fifth Third’s announcements of developments related to its businesses;

●Operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;

●Actions by government regulators and changes in the regulatory regime;

●New technology used or services offered by traditional andnon-traditionalcompetitors;

●News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry;

●U.S. and global economic conditions;

●Natural disasters;

●Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism, military conflicts and withdrawal from the EU
by the U.K. or other EU members.





191




The price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock may fluctuate
significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to Fifth Third’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock,
and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of future market prices.

RISKS RELATING TO FIFTH THIRD’S GENERAL BUSINESS

Changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer behavior may adversely impact Fifth Third’s investments in its bank
premises and equipment and other assets and may lead to increased expenditures to change its retail distribution channel.

Fifth
Third has significant investments in bank premises and equipment for its branch network including its 1,191 full-service banking centers, 50 parcels of land held for the development of future banking centers and 10 properties that are developed or
in the process of being developed as branches, as well as its retail work force and other branch banking assets. Advances in technology such ase-commerce,telephone, internet and mobile banking, andin-branchself-service technologies including automatic teller machines and other equipment, as well as changing customer preferences for these other methods of accessing Fifth Third’s products and services,
could affect the value of Fifth Third’s branch network or other retail distribution assets and may cause it to change its retail distribution strategy, close and/or sell certain branches or parcels of land held for development and restructure
or reduce its remaining branches and work force. Further advances in technology and/or changes in customer preferences could have additional changes in Fifth Third’s retail distribution strategy and/or branch network. These actions could lead
to losses on these assets or could adversely impact the carrying value of other long-lived assets and may lead to increased expenditures to renovate and reconfigure remaining branches or to otherwise reform its retail distribution channel.

Deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted Fifth Third in the past and may adversely impact Fifth Third in the future.

When Fifth Third lends money or commits to lend money the Bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk of loss if borrowers do not
repay their loans. The credit performance of the loan portfolios significantly affects the Bancorp’s financial results and condition. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more customers may have difficulty in repaying their
loans or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and reserves for credit losses. Fifth Third reserves for credit losses by establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. The amount of these reserves is based on
Fifth Third’s assessment of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio including unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments is critical to Fifth Third’s
financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the environment, including analysis of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans.

Fifth Third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the
amount reserved. Fifth Third might increase the reserve because of

changing economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower’s behavior. As an example, borrowers may “strategically
default,” or discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments.

Fifth Third believes that both the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover inherent losses at
December 31, 2016; however, there is no assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions decline. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, Fifth Third
may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce earnings.

For more information, refer to the
Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A and the Allowance for Loan and Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Commitments subsections of the Critical Accounting Policies section of MD&A.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third primarily relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans Fifth Third makes and the operations of Fifth Third’s business. Core deposits, which
include transaction deposits and other time deposits, have historically provided Fifth Third with a sizeable source of relatively stable andlow-costfunds (average core deposits funded 70% of average total
assets at December 31, 2016). In addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include investments in the securities portfolio, Fifth Third’s sale or securitization of loans in secondary markets and the pledging of loans and
investment securities to access secured borrowing facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and Fifth Third’s ability to raise funds in domestic and international money and capital markets.

Fifth Third’s liquidity and ability to fund and run the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of
conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009,
which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms.

Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect Fifth Third’s liquidity and funding include:

●a lack of market or customer confidence in Fifth Third or negative news about Fifth Third or the financial
services industry generally, which also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to access the capital markets;

●the loss of customer deposits to alternative investments;

●inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets,

●increased regulatory requirements,

●and reductions in one or more of Fifth Third’s credit ratings.





192  Fifth Third Bancorp




A reduced credit rating could adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to
borrow funds and raise the cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to raise capital. Many of
the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which Fifth Third has little or no control such as what occurred during the financial crisis. While market conditions have stabilized and, in many cases, improved, there can be no
assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future.

Recent
regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk management may also negatively impact Fifth Third’s results of operations and competitive position. Various regulations recently adopted or proposed, and additional regulations under
consideration, impose or could impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including Fifth Third. These regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing, minimum liquidity requirements and
restrictions on short-term debt issued bytop-tierholding companies. Given the overlap and complex interactions of these regulations with other regulatory changes, including the resolution and recovery
framework applicable to Fifth Third, the full impact of the adopted and proposed regulations will remain uncertain until their full implementation. It is also uncertain whether adopted and proposed regulations will ultimately be rolled back or
modified as a result of the change in administration in the U.S. Uncertainty about the timing and scope of any such changes as well as the cost of complying with a new regulatory regime may negatively impact Fifth Third’s business.

If Fifth Third is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable
terms or if Fifth Third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively, then Fifth Third’s liquidity, operating margins, and financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. As
Fifth Third did during the financial crisis, it may also need to raise additional capital through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends to preserve
capital.

Fifth Third may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent loans are concentrated by location or
industry of the borrowers or collateral.

Fifth Third’s credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are
concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. Deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions and
commodity and real estate values in certain states or locations could result in materially higher credit losses if loans are concentrated in those locations. Fifth Third has significant exposures to businesses in certain economic sectors such as
manufacturing, real estate, financial services and insurance and weaknesses in those businesses may adversely impact Fifth Third’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally Fifth Third has a substantial portfolio of
commercial and residential real estate loans and weaknesses in residential or commercial real estate markets may adversely impact Fifth Third’s business, results of operations or financial condition.

Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans or reimburse
investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties.

Fifth Third sells residential
mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs and other financial institutions that purchase residential mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans,
indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within
a specified period (usually 60 days or less) after Fifth Third receives notice of the breach. Contracts for residential mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate
responses to repurchase requests. If economic conditions and the housing market deteriorate or future investor repurchase demand and Fifth Third’s success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, Fifth Third could have
increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase reserve.

If Fifth Third does not respond to rapid changes in the financial services industry or otherwise adapt to changing customer
preferences, its financial performance may suffer.

Fifth Third’s ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns
on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of competing against other banks in attracting and
retaining customers for traditional banking services, Fifth Third’s competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and specialty finance, telecommunications, technology and insurance companies who
seek to offerone-stopfinancial services that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or allowed to offer.

This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product
delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Rapidly changing technology and consumer preferences may require Fifth Third to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services
in order to compete and meet customer demands. Fifth Third may not be able to do so or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. As a result, Fifth Third’s ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new
business may be impaired, and its business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected.

Fifth Third may make strategic investments and may expand an existing line of business or enter into new lines of business
to remain competitive. If Fifth Third’s chosen strategies, for example, the NorthStar Strategy initiatives, are not appropriate to effectively compete or Fifth Third does not execute them in an appropriate or timely manner, Fifth Third’s
business and results may suffer. Additionally, these strategies, products and lines of business may bring with them unforeseeable or unforeseen risks and may not generate the expected results or returns, which could adversely affect Fifth
Third’s results of operations or future growth prospects and cause Fifth Third to fail to meet its stated goals and expectations.





193




Fifth Third may not be able to successfully implement future information technology
system enhancements, which could adversely affect Fifth Third’s business operations and profitability.

Fifth Third invests
significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. Fifth Third may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements, which could
adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and result in
reputational harm and have other negative effects. In addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as
ongoing operations. Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact Fifth Third’s financial condition and results of operations and could result in
significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, Fifth Third may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs
may continue for an extended period of time.

If Fifth Third is unable to grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher
funding costs.

The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is dependent, in part, on Fifth Third’s ability to
grow its deposits. If Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently grow its deposits to meet liquidity objectives, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. Fifth Third competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If
competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, Fifth Third’s funding costs may increase, either because Fifth Third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because Fifth Third loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of
funding. Higher funding costs reduce Fifth Third’s net interest margin and net interest income. Fifth Third’s bank customers could take their money out of the Bank and put it in alternative investments, causing Fifth Third to lose a lower
cost source of funding. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff.

The Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity
and ability to pay dividends.

Fifth Third Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. Fifth Third
Bancorp typically receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth Third Bancorp’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various
federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay. Regulatory scrutiny of capital levels at bank holding
companies and insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased since the financial crisis and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other distributions to shareholders of
banks such as the parent bank

holding companies. Also, Fifth Third Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that
subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on the Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and principal on its debt. For
further information refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The financial services industry is highly
competitive and creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect Fifth Third’s revenue and profitability.

The
financial services industry in which Fifth Third operates is highly competitive. Fifth Third competes not only with commercial banks, but also with insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, telecommunications and technology and other companies
offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over the internet. Fifth Third competes on the basis of several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation,
reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. These developments
could result in Fifth Third’s competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. Fifth Third may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as
some of its competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices.

Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could
be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies.

Fifth Third’s ability to access the capital markets is
important to its overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to Fifth Third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. The interest rates that Fifth Third pays on its
securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to Fifth Third or its subsidiaries’ credit rating could affect its
ability to access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth Third, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create obligations or liabilities of Fifth Third under
the terms of its outstanding securities that could increase Fifth Third’s costs or otherwise have a negative effect on its results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security
issued by Fifth Third or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.

Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel.

Fifth Third’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates
in the activities and markets that Fifth Third serves is intense, which may increase Fifth Third’s expenses and may result in Fifth Third not being able to hire candidates or retain them. If Fifth Third is not able to hire qualified candidates
or retain its key personnel, Fifth Third may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial condition.





194  Fifth Third Bancorp




Compensation paid by financial institutions such as Fifth Third has become
increasingly regulated, particularly under the DFA, which regulation affects the amount and form of compensation Fifth Third pays to hire and retain talented employees. If Fifth Third is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at
rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, Fifth Third’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely
affected.

Fifth Third’s mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter.

Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the
demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, revenue from MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and
the value of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a “natural hedge,” the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative
effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans would accrue over time. It is also possible that even if interest
rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.

Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. Fifth Third
generally does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third attempts to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. Fifth
Third may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. Fifth Third could incur significant losses from its hedging activities. There may be periods
where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.

Fifth Third
uses models for business planning purposes that may not adequately predict future results.

Fifth Third uses financial models to
aid in its planning for various purposes including its capital and liquidity needs and other purposes. The models used may not accurately account for all variables and may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or understate
certain effects. As a result of these potential failures, Fifth Third may not adequately prepare for future events and may suffer losses or other setbacks due to these failures.

Also, information Fifth Third provides to the public or to its regulators based on models could be inaccurate or misleading
due to inadequate design or implementation, for example. Decisions that its regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to its shareholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the models used to generate the
relevant information are unreliable or inadequate.

Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of MSRs.

Fifth Third acquires MSRs when it keeps the servicing rights after the sale or securitization of the loans that have been originated or when
it purchases the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. Fifth Third initially measures all residential MSRs at fair value and subsequently amortizes the MSRs in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing
income. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment monthly,
based on fair value, with temporary impairment recognized through a valuation allowance and other-than-temporary impairment recognized through awrite-offof the servicing asset and related valuation
allowance.

Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates fall,
borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of MSRs can decrease. Each quarter Fifth Third evaluates the fair value of MSRs, and
decreases in fair value of MSRs below amortized cost reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs.

The preparation
of financial statements requires Fifth Third to make subjective determinations and use estimates that may vary from actual results and materially impact its results of operations or financial position.

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that
affect the financial statements. If new information arises that results in a material change to a reserve amount, such a change could result in a change to previously announced financial results. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section of
MD&A for more information regarding management’s significant estimates.

Changes in accounting standards or interpretations
could impact Fifth Third’s reported earnings and financial condition.

The accounting standard setters, including the FASB,
the SEC and other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Fifth Third’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially
impact how Fifth Third records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the recasting of Fifth Third’s
prior period financial statements.

Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders’ ownership of Fifth Third and may
cause Fifth Third to become more susceptible to adverse economic events.

Future business acquisitions could be material to Fifth
Third and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to
incur debt. In those events, Fifth Third could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.





195




Difficulties in identifying suitable opportunities or combining the operations of
acquired entities or assets with Fifth Third’s own operations or assessing the effectiveness of businesses in which we make strategic investments or with which we enter into strategic contractual relationships may prevent Fifth Third from
achieving the expected benefits from these acquisitions, investments or relationships.

Inherent uncertainties exist when
assessing or integrating the operations of an acquired business or investment or relationship opportunity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an acquisition or strategic
relationship. In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth Third and its potential acquisition and investment targets operate are highly competitive. Acquisition or investment targets may lose customers or otherwise perform poorly or
unprofitably, in the case of an acquired business or strategic relationship, cause Fifth Third to lose customers or perform poorly or unprofitably. Future acquisition and integration activities and efforts to monitor new investments or reap the
benefits of a new strategic relationship may require Fifth Third to devote substantial time and resources and may cause these acquisitions, investments and relationships to be unprofitable or cause Fifth Third to be unable to pursue other business
opportunities.

After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain items were not accounted for properly in
accordance with financial accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity or assets. For example, Fifth Third could
experience higher charge-offs than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio. Additionally, acquired companies or businesses may increase Fifth Third’s risk of regulatory action or restrictions related to the operations of
the acquired business.

Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its businesses. Should it determine to sell such a
business, it may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in shareholders’ equity commensurate with desirable levels. Moreover, if Fifth Third sold such businesses, the loss of income could have an adverse effect on its
earnings and future growth.

Fifth Third owns, or owns a minority stake in, as applicable, severalnon-strategicbusinesses and other assets that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial services businesses or may no longer be aligned with Fifth Third’s strategic plans. Fifth Third
has, from time to time, considered and undertaken (and, in the case of Vantiv, has announced its intention to continue) the sale of such businesses and/or interests, including, for example, portions of Fifth Third’s stake in Vantiv Holding,
LLC. If it were to determine to sell such businesses and/or interests, Fifth Third would be subject to market forces that may make completion of a sale unsuccessful or may not be able to do so within a desirable time frame. If Fifth Third were to
complete the sale of any of its businesses and/or interests in third parties, it would lose the income from the sold businesses and/or interests, including those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and such loss of income could have
an adverse effect on its future earnings and growth. Additionally, Fifth Third may encounter difficulties in separating the operations of any businesses it sells, which may affect its business or results of operations.

Fifth Third relies on its systems and certain third party service providers, and certain
failures could materially adversely affect operations.

Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by
utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. Fifth Third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the systems
will not be inoperable. Fifth Third also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, Fifth Third cannot be certain that the
measures will be successful. A security breach in the systems and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could result in significant reputational harm and the loss of customers’ confidence in Fifth
Third. As a result, we may lose existing and new customers and incur significant costs, including privacy monitoring activities.

Fifth Third’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume poses the risk
that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be difficult to detect. Fifth Third may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are
beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages).





196  Fifth Third Bancorp




Any failures or disruptions of the Bancorp’s systems or operations could give rise to losses in service to customers and clients, adversely affect the Bancorp’s business and results of
operations by subjecting the Bancorp to losses or liability, or require the Bancorp to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption, as well as by exposing the Bancorp to reputational harm, litigation, regulatory fines or
penalties or losses not covered by insurance.

Fifth Third is exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial of service,
hacking, and identity theft, which could result in the disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information.

Fifth Third is exposed to operational and reputational risk.

Fifth Third is exposed to many types of operational risk, including but not limited to, business continuity risk, information management risk,
fraud risk, model risk, third party service provider risk, human resources risk, and process risk.

Fifth Third’s
actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as lending practices, data security, corporate governance and acquisitions, may result in negative public opinion and may damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Actions taken by government regulators and
community

organizations may also damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Additionally, whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the advent and
expansion of social media facilitates the rapid dissemination of information. Though Fifth Third monitors social media channels, the potential remains for rapid and widespread dissemination of inaccurate, misleading or false information that could
damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Negative public opinion can adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to attract and keep customers and can increase the risk that it will be a target of litigation and regulatory action.

Fifth Third’s framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating its risk and loss.

Fifth Third’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. Fifth Third has established processes and
procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, reputational risk, and
operational risk related to its employees, systems and vendors, among others. Any system of control and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable,
not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. A failure in Fifth Third’s internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on its earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and
investors may have of Fifth Third. Fifth Third continues to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving its controls and ensuring compliance with complex regulations.

Additionally, instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market
compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. As a result, Fifth Third may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or
against particular types of risk. If Fifth Third’s risk management framework proves ineffective, Fifth Third could incur litigation, negative regulatory consequences, reputational damages among other adverse consequences and Fifth Third could
suffer unexpected losses that may affect its financial condition or results of operations.

The results of Vantiv Holding, LLC
could have a negative impact on Fifth Third’s operating results and financial condition.

In 2009, Fifth Third sold an
approximate 51% interest in its processing business, Vantiv Holding, LLC (formerly Fifth Third Processing Solutions). As a result of additional share sales completed by Fifth Third in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, the Bancorp ownership share in Vantiv
Holding, LLC as of December 31, 2016, is approximately 18%. The Bancorp’s investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC is currently accounted for under the equity method of accounting and is not consolidated based on Fifth Third’s remaining
ownership share in Vantiv Holding, LLC. Vantiv Holding, LLC’s operating results could be poor and could negatively affect the operating results of Fifth Third. In addition, Fifth Third participates in a multi-lender credit facility to Vantiv
Holding, LLC and repayment of these loans is contingent on the future cash flows of Vantiv Holding, LLC, which are subject to their own risks and uncertainties.





197




Changes in Fifth Third’s ownership in Vantiv Holding, LLC could have an impact on
Fifth Third’s stock price, operating results, financial condition, and future outlook.

Fifth Third expects that it will
reduce its equity investments in Vantiv Holding, LLC and its publicly traded parent, Vantiv, Inc., in whole or in part, but there can be no assurance that such sales will occur or as to when they will occur or the value that might be received by
Fifth Third. A reduction in Fifth Third’s Vantiv ownership interest may result from a series of sale transactions similar to transactions in Vantiv securities engaged in by Fifth Third to date, or could occur as a result of one or more larger
transactions, depending on strategic considerations, market conditions, or other factors deemed important by Fifth Third. Additionally, Fifth Third’s ownership in Vantiv could be affected by transactions that Vantiv may undertake. The nature,
terms, and timing of transactions engaged in by Vantiv may not be entirely within Fifth Third’s control, if at all. If and when Fifth Third’s ownership in Vantiv is reduced, such changes in ownership could have a material impact, positive
or negative, on Fifth Third’s stock price, operating results, financial condition and future outlook.

Weather related events
or other natural disasters may have an effect on the performance of Fifth Third’s loan portfolios, especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting its results of operations.

Fifth Third’s footprint stretches from the upper Midwestern to lower Southeastern regions of the United States. These regions have
experienced weather events including hurricanes and other natural disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be predicted. If large scale events occur, they may
significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as well as impairing its borrowers’ ability to repay their loans.

RISKS RELATED TO THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT

As a regulated entity, the Bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.

The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding company. As such, it is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated
supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The Bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the FRB which
can change depending upon general economic conditions and the Bancorp’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive
use of capital and could adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels.

U.S. federal banking agencies’ capital rules implementing Basel III became effective for the Bancorp on January 1,
2015, subject tophase-inperiods for certain components and other provisions. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity could limit Fifth Third’s business
activities, including lending, and the ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. Moreover, although the capital requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. federal banking agencies take into account expectations regarding
the ability of banks to meet the capital requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases.

Failure by the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary to meet applicable capital
requirements could subject the Bank to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to
increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.

Fifth Third’s business, financial condition and
results of operations could be adversely affected by new or changed regulations and by the manner in which such regulations are applied by regulatory authorities.

Previous economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased focus
and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by introducing various actions and passing legislation such as
the DFA. Such programs and legislation subject Fifth Third and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or costs that may have an impact on Fifth Third’s business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of
its common stock.

Although there is uncertainty regarding whether the programs implemented and the legislation passed
following the financial crisis will remain in place or be modified or repealed under the new administration in the U.S., any new proposals for legislation and regulations introduced could further substantially increase compliance costs in the
financial services industry. In addition, changes to laws and regulations could have a negatively impact in the short term even if the longer-term impact of those changes may be expected to be positive for Fifth Third. Fifth Third cannot predict
whether any pending or future legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on Fifth Third. Changes in regulation could affect Fifth Third in a substantial way and could have an adverse effect on its business,
financial condition and results of operations.

Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its
operations and potential growth.

Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured
depository institutions and their holding companies, the FRB, the FDIC, the CFPB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions by Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary, Fifth Third Bank.
Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary are subject to such supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate decisions. There can be no
assurance that such approvals, if required, would be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair Fifth Third’s operations, restrict its growth
and/or affect its dividend policy. Such actions and activities subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its banking subsidiary, entering into a merger or acquisition transaction,
acquiring or establishing new branches, and entering into certain new businesses.





198  Fifth Third Bancorp




The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding company.
Failure by the Bancorp or Fifth Third Bank to meet the applicable eligibility requirements for financial holding company status (including capital and management requirements and that Fifth Third Bank maintain at least a “Satisfactory” CRA
rating) may result in restrictions on certain activities of the Bancorp, including the commencement of new activities and mergers with or acquisitions of other financial institutions, and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding
company status.

In the wake of the most recent global financial crisis, Fifth Third and other financial institutions
more generally have been subjected to increased scrutiny from government authorities, including bank regulatory authorities, stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, capital levels, asset quality,
provisioning, AML/BSA, consumer compliance and other prudential matters and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises.

In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, are also pursuing aggressive enforcement
actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to enter into
certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith.

In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit
a financial institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third’s regular examination process, Fifth Third’s and its banking subsidiary’s respective regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under various restrictions as
a prudential matter. Such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could negatively affect Fifth Third’s ability to engage in new activities and certain transactions, as well as have a material adverse effect on
Fifth Third’s business and results of operations and may not be publicly disclosed.

In July 2016, the FRB
announced that Fifth Third Bank received a rating of “Needs to Improve” on its CRA examination for the period covering 2011-2013 following its periodic examination to determine Fifth Third Bank’s compliance with the CRA from 2011
through 2013. While Fifth Third Bank’s CRA rating is “Needs to Improve” the Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank face limitations and conditions on certain activities (including the commencement of new activities and merger with or
acquisitions of other financial institutions) and the potential loss of financial holding company status. As a result of these limitations and conditions, Fifth Third may be unable or may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete transactions that might
have been strategically or competitively significant. The Bank’s next CRA examination commenced during the fourth quarter of 2016.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, investigations and
proceedings by various governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and
proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies, regarding their respective customers and businesses. In addition, the complexity of the federal and
state

regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S. means that a single event or topic may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings. Such matters may result in
material adverse consequences, including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third’s SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable,
and/or determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures.

There has been a trend of large
settlements with governmental agencies that may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions, to the extent they are used as a template for other settlements in the future. The uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it
difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and actual settlements or penalties.

Deposit insurance premiums levied against Fifth Third Bank may increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of
resolving failed banks increases.

The FDIC maintains a DIF to protect insured depositors in the event of bank failures. The DIF
is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions including Fifth Third Bank. Future deposit premiums paid by Fifth Third Bank depend on FDIC rules, which are subject to change, the level of the DIF and the magnitude and cost of future
bank failures. Fifth Third Bank may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums if market developments change such that the DIF balance is reduced or the FDIC changes its rules to require higher premiums.

Fifth Third is subject to extensive governmental regulation which could adversely impact Fifth Third or the businesses in which Fifth
Third is engaged.

Fifth Third is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern
almost all aspects of its operations and limit the businesses in which Fifth Third may engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers and depositors and are not designed to
protect security-holders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact Fifth Third or its ability to increase the value of its business. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies
or significant litigation against Fifth Third could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. Future changes in the laws, including tax
laws, or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse to Fifth Third and its shareholders or may require Fifth Third to expend significant time and resources to comply with such requirements.

The DFA, enacted in 2010, is complex and broad in scope and several of its provisions are still being implemented. The DFA
established the CFPB which has authority to regulate consumer financial products and services sold by banks andnon-bankcompanies and to supervise banks with assets of more than $10 billion and their
affiliates for compliance with Federal consumer protection laws. Since its formation, the CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules that could have a significant impact on Fifth Third’s business and the financial services industry more
generally including integrated mortgage disclosures under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act.





199




Compliance with the rules and policies adopted by the CFPB may limit the products Fifth Third may permissibly offer to customers, or limit the terms on which those products may be issued, or may
adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to conduct its business as previously conducted. Fifth Third may also be required to add additional compliance personnel or incur other significant compliance-related expenses. Fifth Third’s business,
results of operations or competitive position may be adversely affected as a result.

The reforms, both under the DFA
and otherwise, are having a significant effect on the entire financial industry. Fifth Third believes compliance with the DFA and implementing its regulations and other initiatives will likely continue to negatively impact revenue and increase the
cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis, and may also limit Fifth Third’s ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities. Any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing
requirements could require changes to Fifth Third’s businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. Additionally, reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that Fifth Third deals with
in the course of business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. The extent to which Fifth Third can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known at this time.

We may become subject to more stringent regulatory requirements and activity restrictions if the FRB and FDIC determine that Fifth
Third’s resolution plan is not credible.

The DFA and implementing regulations jointly issued by the FRB and FDIC require
bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets to annually submit a resolution plan to the FRB and the FDIC that, in the event of material financial distress or failure, establish the rapid, orderly resolution under the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code. If the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine that Fifth Third’s resolution plan is not “credible,” Fifth Third could become subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions, or
restrictions on Fifth Third’s growth, activities or operations, and could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations in ways that could negatively impact its operations and strategy.

Conforming Covered Activities to the Volcker Rule may require the expenditure of resources and management attention and result in
forced sales of assets.

Among other restricted activities, the DFA “Volcker Rule” generally restricts banks and their
affiliates from sponsoring or retaining an interest in certain private equity and hedge funds. A forced sale of some or all (“Legacy Covered Funds”) could result in Fifth Third receiving less value than it would otherwise have received.

If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important bank holding company ornon-bankfinancial company were triggered, Fifth Third could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund.

The DFA created authority
for the orderly liquidation of systemically important bank holding companies andnon-bankfinancial companies and is based on the FDIC’s bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may
trigger liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the

boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon atwo-thirdsvote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund established under
the DFA, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk-based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the
liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Fifth Third. Any such assessments may adversely affect Fifth
Third’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

Regulation of Fifth Third by the CFTC imposes additional
operational and compliance costs.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become the subject of litigation or regulatory or other enforcement proceedings that
could result in substantial legal liability and damage to Fifth Third’s reputation.

Fifth Third and certain of its directors
and officers have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to Fifth Third’s business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for
substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. Enforcement authorities may seek admissions of wrongdoing and, in some cases, criminal pleas as part of the resolutions of matters, and any such
resolution of a matter involving Fifth Third which could lead to increased exposure to private litigation, could adversely affect Fifth Third’s reputation, and could result in limitations on Fifth Third’s ability to do business in certain
jurisdictions. Legal, regulatory and other enforcement proceedings could also result in





200  Fifth Third Bancorp




non-compliance

Fifth Third’s ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to
repurchase its capital stock is restricted.Fifth Third’s ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to
regulatory requirements and the need to meet regulatory expectations. As part of CCAR, Fifth Third’s capital plan is subject to an annual assessment by the FRB, and the FRB may object to Fifth Third’s capital plan if Fifth Third does not
demonstrate an ability to maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon. If the FRB objects to Fifth Third’s capital plan, Fifth Third would be
subject to limitations on its ability to make capital distributions (including paying dividends and repurchasing stock).





201




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Bancorp’s executive offices and the main office of Fifth Third Bank are located on Fountain Square Plaza in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio
in a32-storyoffice tower, a five-story office building with an attached parking garage and a separateten-storyoffice building known as the Fifth Third Center, the
William S. Rowe Building and the 530 Building, respectively. The Bancorp’s main operations campus is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, and is comprised of a three-story building with an attached parking garage known as the George A. Schaefer, Jr.
Operations Center, and atwo-storybuilding with surface parking known as the Madisonville Office Building. The Bank owns 100% of these buildings.

At December 31, 2016, the Bancorp, through its banking andnon-bankingsubsidiaries, operated 1,191 banking centers, of which 859 were owned, 229 were leased and 103 for which the buildings are owned but the land is leased. The banking centers are located in the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois,
Florida, Tennessee, North Carolina, West Virginia, and Georgia. The Bancorp’s significant owned properties are owned free from mortgages and major encumbrances.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP

Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the meeting of Directors immediately following the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. The names, ages and positions of the Executive Officers of the Bancorp as of February 24, are listed below along with their business experience during the past five years:

Greg D. Carmichael, 55. Chief Executive Officer of the Bancorp since November 2015 and President since September 2012. Previously,
Mr. Carmichael was Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp from June 2006 to August 2015, Executive Vice President of the Bancorp from June 2006 to September 2012 and Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp from June 2003 to June 2006.

Lars C. Anderson, 55. Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp since August 2015. Previously,
Mr. Anderson was Vice Chairman of Comerica Incorporated and Comerica Bank since December 2010.

Chad M. Borton, 46. Executive
Vice President of the Bancorp since April 2014. Previously, Mr. Borton was Head of Retail Banking for Fifth Third Bank from July 2012 to April 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Borton served in multiple positions at JP Morgan Chase including the
Head of Branch Administration from August 2011 to July 2012; Senior Vice President and Market Manager from August 2010 to August 2011; Head of Retail Distribution from 2008 to 2010 and Consumer Bank Chief Financial Officer from 2006 to 2008.

Frank R. Forrest, 62. Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Bancorp since April 2014. Previously, Mr. Forrest was
Executive Vice President and Chief Risk and Credit Officer of the Bancorp since September 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Forrest served with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. From March 2012 until June 2013, Mr. Forrest served as Managing Director
and Quality Control Executive for Legacy Asset Services, a division of Bank of America. From September 2008 until March 2012, Mr. Forrest was Managing Director and Global Debt Products Executive for Global Corporate and Investment Banking.
Formerly from January 2007 to September 2008, Mr. Forrest was Risk Management Executive for Commercial Banking.

Mark D. Hazel,
51. Senior Vice President and Controller of the Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hazel was the Assistant Bancorp Controller since 2006 and was the Controller of Nonbank entities since 2003.

Aravind Immaneni, 46. Executive Vice President and Chief Operations and Technology
Officer since November 14, 2016. Previously Mr. Immaneni worked for TD Bank as Executive Vice President and Head of Retail Distribution Strategy & Operations since November 2014, Senior Vice President and Head of Retail Bank
Operations from August 2013 to November 2014, and Senior Vice President and Head of Deposit & Debit Operations from February 2011 to August 2013.

James C. Leonard, 47.Executive Vice President since September 2015 and Treasurer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously,
Mr. Leonard was Senior Vice President from October 2013 to September 2015, the Director of Business Planning and Analysis from 2006 to 2013 and the Chief Financial Officer of the Commercial Banking Division from 2001 to 2006.

Philip R. McHugh, 52. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since December 2014. Previously, Mr. McHugh was Executive Vice
President of Fifth Third Bank since June 2011 and was Senior Vice President of Fifth Third Bank from June 2010 through June 2011. Prior to that, Mr. McHugh was the President and CEO of the Louisville Affiliate of Fifth Third Bank from
January 2005 through June 2010.

Jelena McWilliams, 43. Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary since
January 9, 2017. Previously Ms. McWilliams was Chief Counsel since January 2015 and Deputy Staff Director since July 2016 of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. Previously she was Senior Counsel to the U.S.
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs from July 2012 to December 2015. Prior to that, she served as Assistant Chief Counsel to the U.S. Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee and before that as an attorney at the
Federal Reserve Board of Governors. Prior to government service, she practiced as an attorney with Morrison & Foerster LLP in Palo Alto, California and then with Hogan & Hartson LLP (now Hogan Lovells LLP) in Washington, D.C.

Timothy N. Spence, 38. Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of the Bancorp since September 2015. Previously,
Mr. Spence was a senior partner in the Financial Services practice at Oliver Wyman since 2006, a global strategy and risk management consulting firm.

Teresa J. Tanner, 48. Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since September 2015. Previously, Ms. Tanner was
the Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010 and Senior Vice President and Director of Enterprise Learning since September 2008. Prior to that, she was Human Resources Senior Vice President and
Senior Business Partner for the Information Technology and Central Operations divisions since July 2006. Previously, she was Vice President and Senior Business Partner for Operations since September 2004.

Tayfun Tuzun, 52. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously, Mr. Tuzun was
the Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bancorp from December 2011 to October 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Tuzun was the Assistant Treasurer and Balance Sheet Manager of Fifth Third Bancorp. Previously, Mr. Tuzun was the Structured
Finance Manager since 2007.





202  Fifth Third Bancorp




PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The Bancorp’s common stock is traded in theover-the-countermarket and is listed under the symbol “FITB” on the NASDAQ® Global Select Market System.



High and Low Stock Prices and Dividends Paid Per Share2016HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$27.88$19.57$0.14Third Quarter$21.11$16.26$0.13Second Quarter$19.34$16.02$0.13First Quarter$19.73$13.84$0.132015HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$21.14$18.15$0.13Third Quarter$21.93$18.21$0.13Second Quarter$21.90$18.63$0.13First Quarter$20.53$17.14$0.13

See a discussion of dividend limitations that the subsidiaries can pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 3 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 31, 2016, the Bancorp had 42,892 shareholders of record.



Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPeriodTotal Number ofShares Purchased(a)Average Price PaidPer ShareTotal Number of SharesPurchased as Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plans or ProgramsMaximum Number of Sharesthat May Yet be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms(b)October 2016120,199$                        20.24-87,584,352November 20161,468,61520.871,099,20586,485,147December 20164,965,66527.174,843,75081,641,397Total6,554,479$                        25.635,942,95581,641,397

(a)The Bancorp repurchased 120,199, 369,410 and 121,915 shares during October, November and December of 2016,
respectively, in connection with various employee compensation plans of the Bancorp. These purchases do not count against the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the Board of Directors’ authorization.

(b)In March 2016, the Bancorp announced that its Board of Directors had authorized management to purchase
100 million shares of the Bancorp’s common stock through the open market or in any private transaction. The authorization does not include specific price targets or an expiration date. This share repurchase authorization replaces the
Board’s previous authorization pursuant to which approximately 14 million shares remained available for repurchase by the Bancorp.

See further discussion on accelerated share repurchase transactions and stock-based compensation in Note 23 and Note 24 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



203




The following performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material and should not be
deemed filed or incorporated by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Bancorp specifically incorporates the performance graphs by reference therein.

Total Return Analysis

The graphs below summarize the cumulative return experienced by the Bancorp’s shareholders over the years 2011 through 2016, and 2006
through 2016, respectively, compared to the S&P 500 Stock and the S&P Banks indices.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP VS. MARKET INDICES



Shares Issued Under Certain Employee Benefit Plans

As previously disclosed, during the fourth quarter of 2016, the Bancorp determined that a number of shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock
offered under our 401(k) Plan were previously inadvertently omitted from inclusion in the correspondingS-8registration statement. As a result, approximately 207,444 unregistered shares were sold through the
401(k) Plan during the fourth quarter of 2016.

The Bancorp filed the required FormS-8for the 401(k) Plan on November 10, 2016 and plans to make a voluntary rescission offer to eligible plan participants in order to remediate the registration defect during the first half of 2017. The
Bancorp also plans to make rescission offers to participants of other plans as well for previously disclosed registration and prospectus delivery failures. Based on the market price of Fifth Third Bancorp’s common stock in February 2017, the
Bancorp does not expect that the exercise of any applicable rescission rights will have a material impact on its results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.



204  Fifth Third Bancorp




PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item relating to the Executive Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under “EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.”

The information required by this item concerning Directors and the nomination process is
incorporated herein by reference under the caption “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning the Audit Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is incorporated
herein by reference under the captions “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is
incorporated herein by reference under the caption “SECTION 16 (a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS,”
“COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT” and “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2017 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated herein by reference under the captions
“CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,” “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS” and “COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2017
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning Equity Compensation Plan information
is included in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions
“CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS”, “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS”, “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2017 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the caption “PRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT

EXTERNAL AUDIT FIRM FEES” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

PagesPublic Accounting Firm93-94Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements95-99Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements100-182

The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted because of the absence of conditions under
which they are required, or because the information is set forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.

The
following lists the Exhibits to the Annual Report onForm 10-K.



2.1Master Investment Agreement (excluding exhibits and schedules) dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as
of June 30, 2009, among Fifth Third Bank, Fifth Third Financial Corporation, Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., FTPS Holding, LLC and Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s Current
Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

3.1Amended Articles of Incorporation of Fifth Third Bancorp, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1
to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2014.

3.2Code of Regulations of Fifth Third Bancorp, as Amended as of September 15, 2014. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled with the SEC on February 25, 2016.

4.1Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust
Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.2Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.3Global Security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.4First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2006, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington
Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.5First Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust
Company, as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Wilmington Trust Company. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2007.

4.6Global Security dated as of March 4, 2008 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 8.25%
Subordinated Notes due 2038. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. (1)

4.7Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington
Trust Company, as trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.





205




4.8First Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 25, 2011 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between
Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 25, 2011.

4.9Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 7, 2012 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust
Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Wilmington Trust Company. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2012.

4.10Global Security dated as of March 7, 2012 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 3.500%
Senior Notes due 2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-K/Afiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2012.

4.11Deposit Agreement dated as of May 16, 2013, between Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust,
National Association, as depositary and calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.12Form of Certificate Representing the 5.10%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.13Form of Depositary Receipt for the 5.10%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.14Global Security dated as of November 20, 2013 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.30%
Subordinated Notes due 2024. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 20, 2013.

4.15Deposit Agreement dated December 9, 2013, between Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust,
National Association, as depositary and calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.16Form of Certificate Representing the 6.625%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.17Form of Depositary Receipt for the 6.625%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.18Deposit Agreement dated June 5, 2014, among Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National
Association, as depositary and calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.19Form of Certificate Representing the 4.90%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.20Form of Depositary Receipt for the 4.90%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s

Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.21Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 28, 2014 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington
Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on February 28, 2014.

4.22Global Security dated as of February 28, 2014, representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 in
principal amount of its 2.30% Senior Notes due 2019. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on February 28, 2014.

4.23Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 27, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust
Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 27, 2015.

4.24Global Security dated as of July 27, 2015, representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $1,100,000,000 in
principal amount of its 2.875% Senior Notes due 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 27, 2015.

4.25Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of RegulationS-K.The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the SEC, upon request, copies of any such instruments.

10.1Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan forNon-EmployeeDirectors, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended
June 30, 2013. *

10.2Indenture effective November 19, 1992 between Fifth Third Bancorp, Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A., Trustee.
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 1992 and as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Registration
Statement on FormS-3,RegistrationNo. 33-54134.

10.3Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.5 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.4First Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.5Second Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2012.*

10.6Third Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.7Fifth Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.8First Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled with the SEC on February 25, 2016.*

10.9The Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.8 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.**

10.10First Amendment to The Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled with the SEC on February 25, 2016.*

10.11Second Amendment to The Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated.*

10.12Fifth Third Bancorp Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex 2 to the Registrant’s
Proxy Statement dated February 19, 2004.*





206  Fifth Third Bancorp




10.13Fifth Third Bancorp 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex 2 to the
Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2008.*

10.14Fifth Third Bancorp 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex A to the
Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2014.*

10.15Amended and Restated Fifth Third Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to
the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.16Fifth Third BancorpNon-qualifiedDeferred Compensation Plan, as
Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2013.*

10.17Amendment to the Fifth Third BancorpNon-qualifiedDeferred
Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.18Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Proxy
Statement dated February 9, 2001.*

10.19Amendment No. 1 to Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 26, 2005. *

10.20Amended and Restated First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.10 to First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2003. *

10.21Fifth Third Bancorp Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, effective January 1, 2015. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 21, 2014.*

10.22Warrant dated June 30, 2009 issued by Vantiv Holding, LLC to Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit L to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D/A filed with the Commission on December 30, 2015.

10.23Second Amended & Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (excluding certain exhibits) dated as of
March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, Vantiv Holding, LLC and each person who becomes a member after March 21, 2012. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit C to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D
filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.24Amendment and Restatement Agreement and Reaffirmation (excluding certain schedules) dated as of June 30,
2009 among Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC, FTPS Holding, LLC, Card Management Company, LLC, Fifth Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.25Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS
Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit E to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.26Exchange Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third
Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC and such other holders of Class B Units and Class CNon-VotingUnits that are from time to time parties of the Exchange Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to
the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.27Recapitalization Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC,
Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit D to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.28Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.29Performance Share Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.30Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.31Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.32Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of the Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.33Performance Share Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 of the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.34Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.36 of the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.35Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 of the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.36Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase
transaction dated October 20, 2014 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.**

10.37Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase
transaction dated July 29, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled
with the Commission on November 5, 2015.**

10.38Supplemental Confirmation dated September 3, 2015, to Master Confirmation, dated May 21, 2013, for
accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. acting as agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 5, 2015. Master Confirmation is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on August 7, 2013.**

10.39Separation Agreement between Fifth Third Bancorp and Dan Poston dated October 2, 2015. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-K/Afiled with the Commission on October 6, 2015.

10.40Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase
transaction dated April 27, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Barclays Bank PLC, through its agent Barclays Capital Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on August 5, 2015.**

10.41Offer letter from Fifth Third Bancorp to Lars C. Anderson. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 16, 2015**

10.42Master Confirmation, dated January 22, 2015, and Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share
repurchase transaction dated January 22, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on May 11, 2015.**

10.43Supplemental Confirmation dated December 9, 2015, to Master Confirmation dated January 22, 2015, for
accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled with the SEC on February 25, 2016.**

10.44Supplemental Confirmation dated March 1, 2016, to Master Confirmation dated July 29, 2015, for
accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on May 6, 2016**

10.45Supplemental Confirmation dated August 2, 2016, to Master Confirmation dated January 22, 2015, for
accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 9, 2016**





207




10.46Bancorp Director Pay Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 9, 2016*

10.47Supplemental Confirmation dated December 15, 2016, to Master Confirmation dated May 21, 2013, for
accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch.**

10.482016 Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement (for Directors).*

10.492017 Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement (for Executive Officers).*

10.502017 Performance Share Award Agreement.*

10.512017 Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement (for Executive Officers).*

10.52Long-Term Incentive Award Overview February 2017 Grants.*

12.1Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed 12.1Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to
Fixed Charges.

12.2Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend
Requirements.

21Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2016.

23Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-Deloitte & Touche LLP.

31(i)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.

31(ii)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer.

32(i)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.

32(ii)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer.

99.1Consent Order pursuant to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, dated September 28, 2015, between
Fifth Third Bank and the U.S. Department of Justice regarding indirect auto loans. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on
September 29, 2015.

99.2Consent Order pursuant to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, dated September 28, 2015, between
Fifth Third Bank and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, including the Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order, dated September 28, 2015, by Fifth Third Bank regarding indirect auto loans. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on September 29, 2015.

99.3Consent Order pursuant to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, dated September 28, 2015, between
Fifth Third Bank and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, including the Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order, dated September 28, 2015, by Fifth Third Bank regarding credit cardadd-onproducts. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on September 29, 2015.

99.4Settlement Agreement entered into on September 30, 2015, between the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development and Fifth Third Bancorp and its subsidiaries. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on October 7,
2015.

99.5Stipulation and Order of Settlement and Dismissal entered into on September 30, 2015, by and among
plaintiff the United States of America and on behalf of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Federal Housing Administration and Fifth Third Bancorp and its subsidiaries (excluding exhibits). Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on October 7, 2015.

101Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of RegulationS-T:(i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity, (v) the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements tagged as blocks of text and in detail.

(1)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on March 4, 2008 representing an additional
$500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038.(2)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on November 20, 2013
representing an additional $250,000,000 in principal amount of its 4.30% Subordinated Notes due 2024.*
    Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.**   An application for
confidential treatment for selected portions of this exhibit has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.





208  Fifth Third Bancorp




SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.FIFTH THIRD BANCORPRegistrant/s/ Greg D. CarmichaelGreg D. CarmichaelPresident and CEOPrincipal Executive OfficerFebruary 24, 2017Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed on
February 24, 2017 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated.OFFICERS:/s/
Greg D. CarmichaelGreg D. CarmichaelPresident and CEOPrincipal Executive Officer/s/
Tayfun TuzunTayfun TuzunExecutive Vice President and CFOPrincipal Financial Officer/s/
Mark D. HazelMark D. HazelSeniorVice President and ControllerPrincipal Accounting Officer

DIRECTORS:/s/ Marsha C. WilliamsMarsha C. WilliamsBoard Chair/s/ Nicholas K. AkinsNicholas K. AkinsB. Evan Bayh III/s/ Jorge L. BenitezJorge L. Benitez/s/ Katherine B. BlackburnKatherine B. Blackburn/s/ Emerson L. BrumbackEmerson L. Brumback/s/ Jerry W. BurrisJerry W. Burris/s/ Greg D. CarmichaelGreg D. Carmichael/s/ Gary R. HemingerGary R. Heminger/s/ Jewell D. HooverJewell D. Hoover/s/ Eileen A. MalleschEileen A. MalleschMichael B. McCallister/s/ Hendrik G. MeijerHendrik G. Meijer





209




CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISON



AVERAGE ASSETS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS)Interest-Earning AssetsYearLoans andLeasesFederal FundsSold(a)Interest-BearingDeposits inBanks(a)SecuritiesTotalCash and Duefrom BanksOther Assets(c)Total AverageAssets(c)2016$94,32011,86530,099126,2852,30314,963142,266201593,33913,25726,987123,5842,60815,179140,078201491,127-3,04321,823115,9932,89214,505131,909201389,09312,41616,444107,9542,48215,025123,704201284,82221,49315,319101,6362,35515,643117,562201180,21412,03015,43797,6822,35215,259112,590201079,232113,31716,37198,9312,24514,758112,351200983,391121,02317,100101,5262,32914,179114,769200885,83543818313,42499,8802,49013,326114,211200778,34825714711,63090,3822,27510,578102,442

AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS)DepositsYearDemandInterestCheckingSavingsMoneyMarketOther TimeCertificates$100,000 andOverForeignOffice andOtherTotalShort-TermBorrowingsTotal2016$35,86225,14314,34619,5234,0102,735830102,4493,351105,800201535,16426,16014,95118,1524,0512,869874102,2212,641104,862201431,75525,38216,08014,6703,7623,9291,82897,4062,33199,737201329,92523,58218,4409,4673,7606,3391,51893,0313,52796,558201227,19623,09621,3934,9034,3063,1021,55585,5514,80690,357201123,38918,70721,6525,1546,2603,6563,49782,3153,12285,437201019,66918,21819,6124,80810,5266,0833,36182,2771,92684,203200916,86215,07016,8754,32014,10310,3672,26579,8626,98086,842200814,01714,19116,1926,12711,1359,5314,22075,41310,76086,173200713,26114,82014,8366,30810,7786,4663,15569,6246,89076,514

INCOME (LOSS) FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Per Share(b)Originally ReportedYearInterestIncomeInterestExpenseNoninterestIncomeNoninterestExpenseNet Income (Loss)Availableto CommonShareholdersEarningsDilutedEarningsDividendsDeclaredEarningsDilutedEarnings2016$4,1935782,6963,9031,4891.951.930.531.951.9320154,0284953,0033,7751,6372.032.010.522.032.0120144,0304512,4733,7091,4141.681.660.511.681.6620133,9734123,2273,9611,7992.052.020.472.052.0220124,1075122,9994,0811,5411.691.660.361.691.6620114,2186612,4553,7581,0941.201.180.281.201.1820104,4898852,7293,8555030.630.630.040.630.6320094,6681,3144,7823,8265110.730.670.040.730.6720085,6082,0942,9464,564(2,180)(3.91)(3.91)0.75(3.94)(3.94)20076,0273,0182,4673,3111,0751.991.981.702.001.99

MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Bancorp Shareholders’ EquityYearCommon SharesOutstandingCommonStockPreferredStockCapitalSurplusRetainedEarningsAccumulated OtherComprehensiveIncomeTreasuryStockTotalBook ValuePer ShareAllowance forLoan andLease Losses2016750,479,299$2,0511,3312,75613,44159(3,433)16,20519.821,2532015785,080,3142,0511,3312,66612,358197(2,764)15,83918.481,2722014824,046,9522,0511,3312,64611,141429(1,972)15,62617.351,3222013855,305,7452,0511,0342,56110,15682(1,295)14,58915.851,5822012882,152,0572,0513982,7588,768375(634)13,71615.101,8542011919,804,4362,0513982,7927,554470(64)13,20113.922,2552010796,272,5221,7793,6541,7156,719314(130)14,05113.063,0042009795,068,1641,7793,6091,7436,326241(201)13,49712.443,7492008577,386,6121,2954,2418485,82498(229)12,07713.572,7872007532,671,9251,29591,7798,413(126)(2,209)9,16117.18937

(a)Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in banks are combined in other short-term investments in
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)Adjusted for accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share, which was adopted
retroactively on January 1, 2009.

(c)Upon adoption of ASU2015-03on January 1, 2016, the
Consolidated Balance Sheets for the years ended 2007-2015 were adjusted to reflect the reclassification of average debt issuance costs from average other assets to average long-term debt, respectively. For further information, refer to Note 1 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



210  Fifth Third Bancorp




DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS



FIFTH THIRD BANCORP DIRECTORSMarsha C. Williams, Board ChairRetired Chief Financial OfficerOrbitz Worldwide, Inc.Nicholas K. AkinsChairman, President &Chief Executive OfficerAmerican Electric Power CompanyB. Evan Bayh IIIPartnerMcGuireWoods LLPJorge L. BenitezRetired Chief Executive OfficerNorth America of Accenture plcKatherine B. BlackburnExecutive Vice PresidentCincinnati Bengals, Inc.Emerson L. BrumbackRetired President &
Chief Operating OfficerM&T BankJerry W.
BurrisRetired President and Chief Executive OfficerAssociated Materials Group, Inc.Greg D. CarmichaelPresident & Chief Executive OfficerFifth Third
BancorpGary R. HemingerPresident, Chief Executive
Officer & ChairmanMarathon Petroleum CorporationJewell D. HooverRetired Senior OfficialComptroller of the CurrencyEileen A. MalleschRetired Chief Financial OfficerNationwide
Property & Casualty Segment,Nationwide Mutual Insurance CompanyMichael B. McCallisterRetired Chairman & Chief
Executive OfficerHumana Inc.Hendrik G. MeijerCo-Chairman,Chief Executive Officer &DirectorMeijer, Inc.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP OFFICERSGreg D. CarmichaelPresident &Chief Executive OfficerLars C. AndersonExecutive Vice President &Chief Operating OfficerChad M. BortonExecutive Vice PresidentFrank R. ForrestExecutive Vice President &Chief Risk OfficerMark D. HazelSenior Vice President &ControllerAravind ImmaneniExecutive Vice President &Chief Operationsand Technology OfficerJames C. LeonardExecutive Vice President &TreasurerPhilip R. McHughExecutive Vice PresidentJelena McWilliamsExecutive Vice President,Chief Legal Officer &Corporate SecretaryTimothy N. SpenceExecutive Vice President &Chief Strategy
OfficerTeresa J. TannerExecutive Vice President
&Chief Administrative OfficerTayfun TuzunExecutive Vice President &Chief Financial
Officer

REGIONAL PRESIDENTSRalph S. Michael III(Group Regional President)Michael AshSteven AlonsoDavid A. CallHal ClemmerTimothy Elsbrock(Market President)David GirodatThomas HeiksJerry KelsheimerRandy KoporcRobert W. LaClairJordan A. Miller, Jr.Eric Smith(Market President)Robert A. SullivanThomas G. Welch, Jr.FIFTH THIRD BANCORP BOARD COMMITTEESAudit CommitteeEmerson L. Brumback, ChairKatherine B. BlackburnJerry W. BurrisJewell D. HooverMarsha C. WilliamsFinance CommitteeGary R. Heminger, ChairNicholas K. AkinsEmerson L. BrumbackJewell D. HooverMichael B. McCallisterMarsha C. WilliamsHuman Capital and Compensation CommitteeMichael B.
McCallister, ChairNicholas K. AkinsGary R. HemingerHendrik G. MeijerNominating and Corporate Governance
CommitteeNicholas K. Akins, ChairB. Evan Bayh IIIJorge L. BenitezGary R. HemingerMarsha C. WilliamsRisk and Compliance CommitteeJewell D. Hoover, ChairB. Evan Bayh IIIJorge L. BenitezEileen A. MalleschHendrik G. MeijerMarsha C. Williams





211

