ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The risks listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the Bancorp’s
financial condition, the results of its operations, or its business.

RISKS RELATING TO ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS

Weakness in the U.S. economy, including within Fifth Third’s geographic footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third in the past
and may adversely affect Fifth Third in the future.

If the strength of the U.S. economy in general or the strength of the local
economies in which Fifth Third conducts operations declines this could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on Fifth Third’s loan portfolio and ALLL and in
the receipt of lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. These factors could result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses in future periods, which could materially adversely affect Fifth
Third’s financial condition and results of operations.

The global financial markets continue to be strained as a result of
economic slowdowns and concerns, especially about the creditworthiness of the European Union member states and financial institutions in the European Union. These factors could have international implications, which could hinder the U.S. economic
recovery and affect the stability of global financial markets.

Certain European Union member states have fiscal obligations
greater than their fiscal revenue, which has caused investor concern over such countries’ ability to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth in their economies. The European debt crisis and measures adopted to address it have
significantly weakened European economies. A weaker European economy may cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of European financial institutions and the stability of European member economies. A failure to adequately
address sovereign debt concerns in Europe could hamper economic recovery or contribute to recessionary economic conditions and severe stress in the financial markets, including in the United States. Should the U.S. economic recovery be adversely
impacted by these factors, the likelihood for loan and asset growth at U.S. financial institutions, like Fifth Third, may deteriorate.

Changes in interest rates could affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows.

Fifth Third’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning
assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Fifth Third’s control, including
general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of
loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth Third does not
effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third and its shareholders.

Changes and trends in the capital markets may affect Fifth Third’s income and cash
flows.

Fifth Third enters into and maintains trading and investment positions in the capital markets on its own behalf and
manages investment positions on behalf of its customers. These investment positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and profits Fifth Third derives from managing proprietary and customer trading and investment positions are
dependent on market prices. Market changes and trends may result in a decline in investment advisory revenue or investment or trading losses that may impact Fifth Third. Losses on behalf of its customers could expose Fifth Third to litigation,
credit risks or loss of revenue from those customers. Additionally, losses in Fifth Third’s trading and investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely affect cash flows and funding costs.

Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial markets generally
and have indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third.

The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely
interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit
problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with
which the Bancorp interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Fifth Third.

Fifth Third’s stock price is
volatile.

Fifth Third’s stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate
substantially in the future. These factors include:

—

Actual or anticipated variations in earnings;

—

Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;

—

Fifth Third’s announcements of developments related to its businesses;

—

Operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;

—

Actions by government regulators;

—

New technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors;

—

News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry;

—

Natural disasters;

—

Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.

The price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to
Fifth Third’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock, and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of
future market prices.




Changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer behavior may adversely impact
Fifth Third’s investments in its bank premises and equipment and other assets and may lead to increased expenditures to change its retail distribution channel

Fifth Third has significant investments in bank premises and equipment for its branch network including its 1,302 full service banking
centers, 93 parcels of land held for the development of future banking centers, as well as its retail work force and other branch banking assets. Advances in technology such as e-commerce, telephone, internet and mobile banking, and in-branch
self-service technologies including automatic teller machines and other equipment, as well as changing customer preferences for these other methods of accessing Fifth Third’s products and services, could decrease the value of Fifth Third’s
branch network or other retail distribution assets and may cause it to change its retail distribution strategy, close and/or sell certain branches or parcels of land held for development and restructure or reduce its remaining branches and work
force. These actions could lead to losses on these assets or could adversely impact the carrying value of other long-lived assets and may lead to increased expenditures to renovate and reconfigure remaining branches or to otherwise reform its retail
distribution channel.

RISKS RELATING TO FIFTH THIRD’S GENERAL BUSINESS

Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted Fifth Third in the past and may adversely
impact Fifth Third in the future.

When Fifth Third lends money or commits to lend money the Bancorp incurs credit risk or the
risk of loss if borrowers do not repay their loans. The credit performance of the loan portfolios significantly affects the Bancorp’s financial results and condition. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more customers may
have difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and reserves for credit losses. Fifth Third reserves for credit losses by establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. The
amount of these reserves is based on Fifth Third’s assessment of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments
is critical to Fifth Third’s financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the environment, including analysis of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of borrowers to repay
their loans.

Fifth Third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its loan portfolio and have credit losses in
excess of the amount reserved. Fifth Third might increase the reserve because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower’s behavior. As an example,
borrowers may “strategically default,” or discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments.

Fifth Third believes that both the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover inherent losses at
December 31, 2014; however, there is no assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, Fifth Third
may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce earnings.

For more information, refer to the
“Risk Management - Credit Risk Management,” “Critical Accounting Policies - Allowance for

Loan and Leases,” and “Reserve for Unfunded Commitments” sections of MD&A.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third primarily relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans Fifth Third makes and the operations of Fifth Third’s business. Core customer
deposits, which include transaction deposits and other time deposits, have historically provided Fifth Third with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds (average core deposits funded 71% of average total assets at
December 31, 2014). In addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include investments in the securities portfolio, Fifth Third’s sale or securitization of loans in secondary markets and the pledging of loans and investment
securities to access secured borrowing facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and Fifth Third’s ability to raise funds in domestic and international money and capital markets.

Fifth Third’s liquidity and ability to fund and run the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of
conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009,
which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms.

Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect Fifth Third’s liquidity and funding include a lack
of market or customer confidence in Fifth Third or negative news about Fifth Third or the financial services industry generally which also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to access the capital markets; the loss
of customer deposits to alternative investments; inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, increased regulatory requirements, and reductions in one or more of Fifth Third’s credit ratings. A reduced credit rating could adversely
affect Fifth Third’s ability to borrow funds and raise the cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect Fifth
Third’s ability to raise capital. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which Fifth Third has little or no control such as what occurred during the financial crisis. While market conditions have stabilized and,
in many cases, improved, there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future.

Recent regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk management may also negatively impact Fifth Third’s results of
operations and competitive position. Various regulations recently adopted or proposed, and additional regulations under consideration, impose or could impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including Fifth
Third. These regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing, minimum liquidity requirements and restrictions on short-term debt issued by top-tier holding companies. Given the overlap and complex interactions of these regulations
with other regulatory changes, including the resolution and recovery framework applicable to Fifth Third, the full impact of the adopted and proposed regulations will remain uncertain until their full implementation.

If Fifth Third is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable
terms or if Fifth Third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise

28  Fifth
Third Bancorp


MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

fails to manage liquidity effectively; liquidity, operating margins, financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. As Fifth Third did during the financial crisis, it may
also need to raise additional capital through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends to preserve capital.

Fifth Third may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent loans are concentrated by location or industry of the
borrowers or collateral.

Fifth Third’s credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are concentrated to borrowers
engaged in the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. Deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions and real estate values in these states
and generally across the country could result in materially higher credit losses.

Fifth Third may be required to repurchase
residential mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties.

Fifth Third sells residential mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs and other financial institutions that purchase residential
mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer
for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 60 days or less) after Fifth Third receives notice of the breach. Contracts for residential
mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. If economic conditions and the housing market deteriorate or future investor repurchase
demand and success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, Fifth Third could have increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase reserve.

If Fifth Third does not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer.

Fifth Third’s ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its
ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, Fifth
Third’s competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, specialty finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services that may include services that banks have not been able
or allowed to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, as
well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers.

If Fifth Third is unable to grow its deposits,
it may be subject to paying higher funding costs.

The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is dependent, in part,
on Fifth Third’s ability to grow its deposits. If Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently grow its deposits to meet liquidity objectives, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. Fifth Third competes with banks and other financial
services

companies for deposits. If competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, Fifth Third’s funding costs may increase, either because Fifth Third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or
because Fifth Third loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. Fifth Third’s bank customers could take their money out of the bank and put it
in alternative investments, causing Fifth Third to lose a lower cost source of funding. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock
market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff.

The Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts
for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends.

Fifth Third Bancorp is a
separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. Fifth Third Bancorp typically receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth Third
Bancorp’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary and certain nonbank
subsidiaries may pay. Regulatory scrutiny of capital levels at bank holding companies and insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased since the financial crisis and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital
planning, including dividends and other distributions to shareholders of banks such as the parent bank holding companies. Also, Fifth Third Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or
reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on the Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay
dividends on stock or interest and principal on its debt.

The financial services industry is highly competitive and creates
competitive pressures that could adversely affect Fifth Third’s revenue and profitability.

The financial services industry
in which Fifth Third operates is highly competitive. Fifth Third competes not only with commercial banks, but also with insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over
the internet. Fifth Third competes on the basis of several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial
services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. These developments could result in Fifth Third’s competitors gaining greater
capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. Fifth Third may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of its competitors seek to increase market share by
reducing prices.

Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating
agencies.

Fifth Third’s ability to access the capital markets is important to its overall funding profile. This access is
affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to Fifth Third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. The interest rates that Fifth Third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among other things,
the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its

29  

securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to Fifth Third or its subsidiaries’ credit rating could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase its
borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth Third, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create obligations or liabilities to Fifth Third under the terms of its outstanding securities that could
increase Fifth Third’s costs or otherwise have a negative effect on its results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by Fifth Third or its subsidiaries could
negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.

Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel.

Fifth Third’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates
in the activities and markets that Fifth Third serves is great and Fifth Third may not be able to hire these candidates and retain them. If Fifth Third is not able to hire or retain these key individuals, Fifth Third may be unable to execute its
business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial condition.

In June
2010, the federal banking agencies issued joint guidance on executive compensation designed to help ensure that a banking organization’s incentive compensation policies do not encourage imprudent risk taking and are consistent with the safety
and soundness of the organization. In addition, the DFA requires those agencies, along with the SEC, to adopt rules to require reporting of incentive compensation and to prohibit certain compensation arrangements. The federal banking agencies and
the SEC proposed such rules in April 2011. In addition, in June 2012, the SEC issued final rules to implement DFA’s requirement that the SEC direct the national securities exchanges to adopt certain listing standards related to the compensation
committee of a company’s board of directors as well as its compensation advisers. If Fifth Third is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if compensation costs
required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, Fifth Third’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.

Fifth Third’s mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter.

Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the
demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, revenue from MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and
the value of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a “natural hedge,” the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative
effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans would accrue over time. It is also possible that even if interest
rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.

Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. Fifth Third
generally does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third attempts to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated

models and constant monitoring. Fifth Third may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged.
Fifth Third could incur significant losses from its hedging activities. There may be periods where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.

Fifth Third uses financial models for business planning purposes that may not adequately predict future results.

Fifth Third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various purposes including its capital and liquidity needs, potential charge-
offs, reserves, and other purposes. The models used may not accurately account for all variables that could affect future results, may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or understate certain effects. As a result of these
potential failures, Fifth Third may not adequately prepare for future events and may suffer losses or other setbacks due to these failures.

Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of MSRs.

Fifth Third acquires MSRs when it keeps the servicing rights after the sale or securitization of the loans that have been originated or when
it purchases the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. Fifth Third initially measures all residential MSRs at fair value and subsequently amortizes the MSRs in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing
income. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment monthly,
based on fair value, with temporary impairment recognized through a valuation allowance and permanent impairment recognized through a write-off of the servicing asset and related valuation allowance.

Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are
usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of MSRs can decrease. Each quarter Fifth Third evaluates the fair value of MSRs, and decreases in fair
value below amortized cost reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs.

The preparation of Fifth Third’s
financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results.

The preparation of consolidated financial
statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. If new information arises that results in a material change to a reserve amount, such a change could result in a change
to previously announced financial results. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Policies” section of MD&A for more information regarding management’s significant estimates.

Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could impact Fifth Third’s reported earnings and financial condition.

The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial
accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Fifth Third’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third records and reports its financial condition and
results of operations. In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the recasting of Fifth Third’s prior period financial statements.




Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders’ ownership of Fifth Third and
may cause Fifth Third to become more susceptible to adverse economic events.

Subject to requisite regulatory approvals, future
business acquisitions could be material to Fifth Third and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use
substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, Fifth Third could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.

Difficulties in combining the operations of acquired entities with Fifth Third’s own operations may prevent Fifth Third from
achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions.

Upon receipt of requisite governmental approvals and consummation of such
transactions, inherent uncertainties exist when integrating the operations of an acquired entity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an acquisition. In addition, the markets
and industries in which Fifth Third and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. Fifth Third may lose customers or the customers of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. Future acquisition and integration
activities may require Fifth Third to devote substantial time and resources and as a result Fifth Third may not be able to pursue other business opportunities.

After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain items are not accounted for properly in accordance with
financial accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity. For example, Fifth Third could experience higher charge-offs
than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio.

Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its
businesses. Should it determine to sell such a business, it may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in shareholders’ equity commensurate with desirable levels. Moreover, if Fifth Third sold such businesses, the loss of
income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future growth.

Fifth Third owns, or owns a minority stake in, as
applicable, several non-strategic businesses that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial services businesses. Fifth Third has, from time to time, considered the sale of such businesses and/or interests, including, for example,
portions of our stake in Vantiv Holding, LLC. If it were to determine to sell such businesses and/or interests, Fifth Third would be subject to market forces that may make completion of a sale unsuccessful or may not be able to do so within a
desirable time frame. If Fifth Third were to complete the sale of non-core businesses and/or interests, it would suffer the loss of income from the sold businesses and/or interests, including those accounted for under the equity method of
accounting, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on its future earnings and growth.

Fifth Third relies on its
systems and certain service providers, and certain failures could materially adversely affect operations.

Fifth Third collects,
processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. Fifth Third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a
business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be

inoperable. Fifth Third also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However,
Fifth Third cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. A security breach in the systems and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could result in losing the customers’ confidence and
thus the loss of their business as well as additional significant costs for privacy monitoring activities.

Fifth
Third’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be
difficult to detect. Fifth Third may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). Fifth Third is further exposed
to the risk that its third party service providers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors as Fifth Third). These disruptions may interfere with service to Fifth
Third’s customers and result in a financial loss or liability.

Fifth Third is exposed to cyber-security risks, including
denial of service, hacking, and identity theft.

Fifth Third relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct
its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in disruptions to its accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and adversely affect our customer relationships. While Fifth Third has policies and
procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently remediated. There have
been increasing efforts on the part of third parties, including through cyber attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been several recent instances involving financial services
and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data, by both private individuals and foreign governments. In addition, because the techniques used to
cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, Fifth Third may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to
implement adequate preventative measures. Furthermore, there has been a well-publicized series of apparently related distributed denial of service attacks on large financial services companies, including Fifth Third Bank. Distributed denial of
service attacks are designed to saturate the targeted online network with excessive amounts of network traffic, resulting in slow response times, or in some cases, causing the site to be temporarily unavailable. To date these attacks have not been
intended to steal financial data, but meant to interrupt or suspend a company’s Internet service. These events did not result in a breach of Fifth Third’s client data and account information remained secure; however, the attacks did
adversely affect the performance of Fifth Third’s website and in some instances prevented customers from accessing Fifth Third’s website. While the event was resolved in a timely fashion and primarily resulted in inconvenience to our
customers, future cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and damaging. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and Fifth Third may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. Fifth Third may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize
these risks or in the investigation of such cyber-attacks or related to the protection of the Bancorp’s customers from identity theft as a result




of such attacks. Nevertheless, the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach
of our systems, or of our third-party service providers, particularly if widespread or resulting in financial losses to customers, could also seriously damage Fifth Third’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to
additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and financial liability.

Fifth Third is exposed to operational
and reputational risk.

Fifth Third is exposed to many types of operational risk, including but not limited to, business
continuity risk, information management risk, fraud risk, model risk, third party service provider risk, human resources risk, and process risk.

Negative public opinion can result from Fifth Third’s actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as lending
practices, data security, corporate governance and acquisitions, and may damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Additionally, actions taken by government regulators and community organizations may also damage Fifth Third’s reputation. This
negative public opinion can adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action.

The results of Vantiv Holding, LLC could have a negative impact on Fifth Third’s operating results and financial condition.

In 2009, Fifth Third sold an approximate 51% interest in its processing business, Vantiv Holding, LLC (formerly Fifth Third
Processing Solutions). As a result of additional share sales completed by Fifth Third in 2012, 2013 and 2014 the Bancorp’s current ownership share in Vantiv Holding, LLC is approximately 23%. The Bancorp’s investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC
is accounted for under the equity method of accounting and is not consolidated based on Fifth Third’s remaining ownership share in Vantiv Holding, LLC. Vantiv Holding, LLC’s operating results could be poor or favorable and could affect the
operating results of Fifth Third. In addition, Fifth Third participates in a multi-lender credit facility to Vantiv Holding, LLC and repayment of these loans is contingent on future cash flows from Vantiv Holding, LLC.

Weather related events or other natural disasters may have an effect on the performance of Fifth Third’s loan portfolios,
especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting its results of operations.

Fifth Third’s footprint stretches
from the upper Midwestern to lower Southeastern regions of the United States. This area has experienced weather events including hurricanes and other natural disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of global climate change
upon their frequency and severity cannot be predicted. If large scale events occur, they may significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as well as impairing its borrowers’ ability to repay their loans.

RISKS RELATED TO THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT

As a regulated entity, the Bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.

The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding company. As such, it is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated
supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The Bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the FRB which
can change depending upon general economic conditions and the Bancorp’s

particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could
adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels.

In June 2012, Federal
banking agencies proposed enhancements to the regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations, which implemented aspects of Basel III, such as re-defining the regulatory capital elements and minimum capital ratios, introducing
regulatory capital buffers above those minimums, revising the agencies’ rules for calculating risk-weighted assets and introducing a new Tier I common equity ratio. In July 2013, the Federal banking agencies issued final rules for the enhanced
regulatory capital requirements, which included modifications to the proposed rules. The final rules provide the option for certain banking organizations, including the Bancorp, to opt out of including AOCI in Tier I capital and retain the treatment
of residential mortgage exposures consistent with the current Basel I capital rules. The new capital rules are effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain components and other provisions. The need to
maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity going forward could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. Moreover, although these new
requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. Federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that
represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases.

The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary must
remain well-capitalized, well-managed and maintain at least a “Satisfactory” CRA rating for the Bancorp to retain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet these requirements could result in the FRB placing limitations or
conditions on the Bancorp’s activities (and the commencement of new activities) and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status. In addition, failure by the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary to meet applicable
capital guidelines could subject the bank to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital
directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.

Fifth Third’s business, financial
condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new or changed regulations and by the manner in which such regulations are applied by regulatory authorities.

Previous economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased focus
on and scrutiny of the financial services industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by introducing various actions and passing legislation such
as the DFA. Such programs and legislation subject Fifth Third and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or costs that may have an impact on Fifth Third’s business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of
its common stock.

New proposals for legislation and regulations continue to be introduced that could further
substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry. Fifth Third cannot predict whether any pending or future legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on Fifth Third. Additional regulation
could affect Fifth Third in a substantial way and could




have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.

Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.

Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding
companies, the FRB, the FDIC, the CFPB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions by Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary. Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary are subject to such
supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate decisions. There can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would be forthcoming or
that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair Fifth Third’s operations, restrict its growth and/or affect its dividend policy. Such actions and activities
subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its banking subsidiary, entering into a merger or acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing new branches, and entering into certain new
businesses.

In addition, Fifth Third, as well as other financial institutions more generally, have recently been
subjected to increased scrutiny from government authorities, including bank regulatory authorities, stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, capital levels, asset quality, provisioning, AML/BSA,
consumer compliance and other prudential matters and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises. In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies,
are also pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect our
ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith.

In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit
a financial institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third’s regular examination process, Fifth Third’s and its banking subsidiary’s respective regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under various restrictions as
a prudential matter. Such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could have a material adverse effect on Fifth Third’s business and results of operations and may not be publicly disclosed.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, investigations and
proceedings by various governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and
proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies, regarding their respective businesses. Such matters may result in material adverse consequences,
including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third’s SEC filings

and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures.

Deposit insurance premiums levied against Fifth Third Bank may increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of resolving failed banks
increases.

The FDIC maintains a DIF to protect insured depositors in the event of bank failures. The DIF is funded by fees
assessed on insured depository institutions including Fifth Third Bank. Future deposit premiums paid by Fifth Third Bank depend on the level of the DIF and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. Fifth Third Bank may be required to pay
significantly higher FDIC premiums if market developments change such that the DIF balance is reduced.

Legislative or regulatory
compliance, changes or actions or significant litigation, could adversely impact Fifth Third or the businesses in which Fifth Third is engaged.

Fifth Third is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations
and limit the businesses in which Fifth Third may engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers and depositors. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other
actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact Fifth Third or its ability to increase the value of its business. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against Fifth Third could cause it to devote significant
time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. Future changes in the laws, including tax laws, or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially
adverse to Fifth Third and its shareholders or may require Fifth Third to expend significant time and resources to comply with such requirements.

On July 21, 2010 the President of the United States signed into law the DFA. Many parts of the DFA are now in effect,
while others are in an implementation stage likely to continue for several years. A number of reform provisions are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including Fifth Third and its bank subsidiary,
conduct their business:

—

The CFPB has been given authority to regulate consumer financial products and services sold by banks and non-bank companies and to supervise banks
with assets of more than $10 billion and their affiliates for compliance with Federal consumer protection laws. Any new regulatory requirements promulgated by the CFPB could require changes to our consumer businesses, result in increased compliance
costs and affect the streams of revenue of such businesses. The FSOC has been charged with identifying systemic risks, promoting stronger financial regulation and identifying those non-bank companies that are systemically important and thus should
be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve.

—

The DFA “Volcker Rule” provisions and implementing final rule generally prohibit any banking entity from (i) engaging in short-term
proprietary trading for its own account and (ii) sponsoring or acquiring ownership interests in private equity or hedge funds. The Volcker Rule, however, contains a number of exceptions to these

33  Fifth
Third Bancorp


MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

prohibitions. For example, transactions on behalf of customers or in connection with certain underwriting and market making activities, as well as risk-mitigating hedging activities and certain
foreign banking activities are permitted. The risk-mitigating hedging exemption applies to hedging activities that are designed to reduce or significantly mitigate specific, identifiable risks of individual or aggregated positions. Fifth Third is
required to conduct an analysis supporting its hedging strategy and the effectiveness of hedges must be monitored and recalibrated as necessary. Fifth Third will be required to document, contemporaneously with the transaction, the hedging rationale
for certain transactions that present heighted compliance risks. Under the market-making exemption, a trading desk is required to routinely stand ready to purchase and sell one or more types of financial instruments. The trading desk’s
inventory in these types of financial instruments has to be designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near-term demands of customers.

—

The Volcker Rule and the rulemakings promulgated thereunder restrict banks and their affiliated entities from investing in or sponsoring certain
private equity and hedge funds. Fifth Third does not sponsor any private equity or hedge funds that it is prohibited from sponsoring. As of December 31, 2014, the Bancorp had approximately $165 million in interests and approximately $60 million
in binding commitments to invest in private equity funds likely to be affected by the Volcker rule. It is expected that the Bancorp may need to eliminate these investments although it is likely that these investments will be reduced over time in the
ordinary course before compliance is required. In December 2014, the FRB extended the conformance period through July 2016 for investments in and relationships with such covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013, and indicated
that it intends to further extend the compliance period for such investments through July 2017. An ultimate forced sale of some of these investments could result in Fifth Third receiving less value than it would otherwise have received.

—

The FDIC and the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule that requires bank holding companies that have $50 billion or more in assets, like Fifth
Third, to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the FSOC a plan discussing how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. In a related
rulemaking, the FDIC adopted a final rule that requires insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in assets, like Fifth Third, to annually prepare and submit a resolution plan to the FDIC, which would include, among other things, an
analysis of how the institution could be resolved under the FDIA in a manner that protects depositors and limits losses or costs to creditors of the bank. Initial plans for Fifth Third and its bank subsidiary have been submitted, in accordance with
the final

regulatory rules, for review by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the FSOC. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on Fifth Third or its bank subsidiary, including
additional capital requirements or limitations on growth, if the agencies determine that the institution’s plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of Fifth Third under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, or Fifth Third
Bank under the FDIA, and additionally could require Fifth Third to divest assets or take other actions if it did not submit an acceptable resolution within two years after any such restrictions were imposed.

—

Title VII of DFA imposes a new regulatory regime on the U.S. derivatives markets. While most of the provisions related to derivatives markets are
now in effect, several additional requirements await final regulations from the relevant regulatory agencies for derivatives, the CFTC and the SEC. One aspect of this new regulatory regime for derivatives is that substantial oversight responsibility
has been provided to the CFTC, which, as a result, now has a meaningful supervisory role with respect to some of Fifth Third’s businesses. In 2014, Fifth Third Bank registered as a swap dealer with the CFTC and became subject to new substantive
requirements, including real time trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and
conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of all standardized swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be cleared. Although the ultimate impact will depend on the promulgation of all final
regulations, Fifth Third’s derivatives business will likely be further subject to new substantive requirements, including margin requirements in excess of current market practice and capital requirements specific to this business. These
requirements will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on Fifth Third and will introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of
action). Once finalized, the rules may raise the costs and liquidity burden associated with Fifth Third’s derivatives businesses and adversely affect or cause Fifth Third to change its derivatives products.

—

Financial institutions may be required, regardless of risk, to pay taxes or other fees to the U.S. Treasury. Such taxes or other fees could be
designed to reimburse the U.S. Treasury for the many government programs and initiatives it has taken or may undertake as part of its economic stimulus efforts. The Department of Treasury issued an interim final rule in 2012 to establish an
assessment schedule for the collection of fees from bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets and foreign banks with at least $50 billion in assets in the U.S. to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research and FSOC. In
August 2013, the FRB also adopted a final

34  Fifth
Third Bancorp


MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

rule to implement an assessment provision under the DFA equal to the expense the FRB estimates are necessary or appropriate to supervise and regulate bank holding companies with $50 billion or
more in assets.

—

On July 31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued an order granting summary judgment to the plaintiffs in a case
challenging certain provisions of the FRB’s rule concerning electronic debit card transaction fees and network exclusivity arrangements (the “Current Rule”) that were adopted to implement Section 1075 of the DFA, known as the
Durbin Amendment. The Court held that, in adopting the Current Rule, the FRB violated the Durbin Amendment’s provisions concerning which costs are allowed to be taken into account for purposes of setting fees that are reasonable and
proportional to the costs incurred by the issuer and therefore the Current Rule’s maximum permissible fees were too high. In addition, the Court held that the Current Rule’s network non-exclusivity provisions concerning unaffiliated
payment networks for debit cards also violated the Durbin Amendment. The Court vacated the Current Rule, but stayed its ruling to provide the FRB an opportunity to replace the invalidated portions. The FRB appealed this decision and on
March 21, 2014, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the District Court’s grant of summary judgment and remanded the case for further proceedings in accordance with its opinion. The merchants have filed a petition for writ of
certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court. However, on January 20, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of the Circuit Court reversal, thereby largely upholding the Current Rule and substantially reducing uncertainty surrounding
debit card interchange fees the Bancorp is permitted to charge. Refer to the Noninterest Income subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&A for further information regarding the Bancorp’s debit card interchange revenue.

It is clear that the reforms, both under the DFA and otherwise, are having a significant effect on the entire
financial industry. Fifth Third believes compliance with the DFA and implementing its regulations and other initiatives will likely continue to negatively impact revenue and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses
and on an ongoing basis, and may also limit Fifth Third’s ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities. Any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements could require changes to Fifth Third’s businesses,
result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. Additionally, reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that we deal with in the course of our business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and
investors. The extent to which Fifth Third can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known at this time.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become the subject of litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to Fifth
Third’s reputation.

Fifth Third and certain of its directors and officers have been named from time to time as defendants in
various class actions and

other litigation relating to Fifth Third’s business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive
damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. The SEC has announced a policy of seeking admissions of liability in certain settled cases, which could adversely impact the defense of private litigation. These matters could result in
material adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third’s SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable and/or determinations of material weaknesses in its
disclosure controls and procedures. Like other large financial institutions and companies, Fifth Third is also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential
information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against Fifth Third could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to its business.

Fifth Third’s ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its capital stock is restricted.

Fifth Third’s ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to regulatory requirements and the need to meet
regulatory expectations. Fifth Third is subject to an annual assessment by the FRB as part of CCAR. The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment of the expected use and sources of capital over the planning horizon, a description of
all planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the Bancorp’s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the
Bancorp’s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp’s capital policy. The capital plan must reflect the revised capital framework that the FRB adopted in connection with the implementation of the Basel III accord, including
the framework’s minimum regulatory capital ratios and transition arrangements. Fifth Third’s stress testing results and 2015 capital plan were submitted to the FRB on January 5, 2015.

The FRB’s review of the capital plan will assess the comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the
assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. Additionally, the FRB will review the robustness of the capital adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp’s ability to maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital
ratios and above a Tier I common ratio of 5 percent under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon.




