ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The risks listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the
Bancorp’s financial condition, the results of its operations, or its business.

RISKS RELATING TO ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS

Weakness in the U.S. economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within Fifth Third’s
geographic footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third and may continue to adversely affect Fifth Third.

If the
strength of the U.S. economy in general or the strength of the local economies in which Fifth Third conducts operations declines or does not improve in a reasonable time frame, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit
quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on Fifth Third’s loan portfolio and ALLL and in the receipt of lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. A portion of Fifth Third’s residential
mortgage and commercial real estate loan portfolios are comprised of borrowers in Florida, whose markets have been particularly adversely affected by job losses, declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home
building. These factors could result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses on foreclosed real estate in future periods, which could materially adversely affect Fifth Third’s financial condition and results of
operations.

The global financial markets continue to be strained as a result of economic slowdowns and concerns,
especially about the creditworthiness of the European Union member states and financial institutions in the European Union. These factors could have international implications, which could hinder the U.S. economic recovery and affect the stability
of global financial markets.

Certain European Union member states have fiscal obligations greater than their fiscal
revenue, which has caused investor concern over such countries’ ability to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth in their economies. During 2011, the European debt crisis caused spreads to widen in the fixed income debt
markets and liquidity to be less abundant. The European debt crisis and measures adopted to address it have significantly weakened European economies. A weaker European economy may cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of
European financial institutions and the stability of European member economies. A failure to adequately address sovereign debt concerns in Europe could hamper economic recovery or contribute to recessionary economic conditions and severe stress in
the financial markets, including in the United States. Should the U.S. economic recovery be adversely impacted by these factors, the likelihood for loan and asset growth at U.S. financial institutions, like Fifth Third, may deteriorate.

Changes in interest rates could affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows.

Fifth Third’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning
assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Fifth Third’s control, including
general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of
loans, the purchase of investments, the

generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth Third does
not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third and its shareholders.

Potential changes in determining LIBOR could affect Fifth Third’s debt securities and other financial obligations.

Beginning in 2008, concerns have been raised about the accuracy of the calculation of the daily LIBOR, which is
currently overseen by the BBA. Fifth Third was not and is not a LIBOR panelist surveyed for LIBOR estimates. The BBA has taken steps to change the process for determining LIBOR by increasing the number of banks surveyed to set LIBOR and to
strengthen the oversight of the process. In addition a report published in September 2012, set forth recommendations relating to the setting and administration of LIBOR, and the United Kingdom government has announced that it intends to incorporate
these recommendations in the new legislation.

At the present time, it is uncertain what changes, if any, may
be required or made by the United Kingdom government or other governmental or regulatory authorities in the method for determining LIBOR. Accordingly, it is not apparent whether or to what extent any such changes would have an adverse impact on the
value of any LIBOR-linked debt securities issued by Fifth Third or any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit for which Fifth Third is an obligor, or whether or to what extent any such changes would have an
adverse effect on the value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to Fifth Third or on Fifth Third’s financial condition or results of operations.

Changes and trends in the capital markets may affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows.

Fifth Third enters into and maintains trading and investment positions in the capital markets on its own behalf and manages investment
positions on behalf of its customers. These investment positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and profits Fifth Third derives from managing proprietary and customer trading and investment positions are dependent on market
prices. Market changes and trends may result in a decline in investment advisory revenue or investment or trading losses that may materially affect Fifth Third. Losses on behalf of its customers could expose Fifth Third to litigation, credit risks
or loss of revenue from those customers. Additionally, substantial losses in Fifth Third’s trading and investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely affect cash flows and funding costs.

The removal or reduction in stimulus activities sponsored by the Federal Government and its agents may have a negative
impact on Fifth Third’s results and operations.

The Federal Government has intervened in an unprecedented manner
to stimulate economic growth. The expiration or rescission of any of these programs and actions may have an adverse impact on Fifth Third’s operating results by increasing interest rates, increasing the cost of funding, and reducing the demand
for loan products, including mortgage loans.




Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to Fifth Third
could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third.

The commercial
soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could
lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies,
clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Bancorp interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Fifth Third.

Fifth Third’s stock price is volatile.

Fifth Third’s
stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include:

•

Actual or anticipated variations in earnings;

•

Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;

•

Fifth Third’s announcements of developments related to its businesses;

•

Operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;

•

Actions by government regulators;

•

New technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors;

•

News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry;

•

Natural disasters;

•

Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.

The price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated
to Fifth Third’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock, and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of
future market prices.

RISKS RELATING TO FIFTH THIRD’S GENERAL BUSINESS

Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted Fifth Third and may continue to adversely
impact Fifth Third.

When Fifth Third lends money or commits to lend money the Bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk
of losses if borrowers do not repay their loans. The credit performance of the loan portfolios significantly affects the Bancorp’s financial results and condition. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more customers may have
difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and reserves for credit losses. Fifth Third reserves for credit losses by establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. The amount of
these reserves is based on Fifth Third’s assessment of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for
unfunded commitments is critical to Fifth Third’s financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the environment, including analysis of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability
of borrowers to repay their loans.

Fifth Third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its loan
portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. Fifth Third might increase the reserve because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in
borrower’s behavior. As an example, borrowers may “strategically default,” or discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still
financially able to make the payments.

Fifth Third believes that both the allowance for loan and lease losses
and reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover inherent losses at December 31, 2012; however, there is no assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen.
In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, Fifth Third may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce earnings.

For more information, refer to the “Risk Management—Credit Risk Management,” “Critical Accounting
Policies—Allowance for Loan and Leases,” and “Reserve for Unfunded Commitments” of the MD&A.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third primarily relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans Fifth Third makes and the operations of Fifth Third’s business. Core customer
deposits, which include transaction deposits and other time deposits, have historically provided Fifth Third with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds (average core deposits funded 70% of average total assets at
December 31, 2012). In addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include investments in the securities portfolio, Fifth Third’s ability to sell or securitize loans in secondary markets and to pledge loans to access secured
borrowing facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and Fifth Third’s ability to raise funds in domestic and international money and capital markets.

Fifth Third’s liquidity and ability to fund and run the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market
disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of
cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms.

Other conditions and factors
that could materially adversely affect Fifth Third’s liquidity and funding include a lack of market or customer confidence in Fifth Third or negative news about Fifth Third or the financial services industry generally which also may result in a
loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to access the capital markets; the loss of customer deposits to alternative investments; inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, and reductions in one or more of Fifth Third’s
credit ratings. A reduced credit rating could adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to borrow funds and raise the cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take
other actions that could adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to raise capital. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which Fifth Third has little or no control such as what occurred during the financial
crisis. While market conditions have stabilized and, in many cases, improved, there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the
future.

Fifth Third Bancorp



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Other material adverse effects could include a reduction in Fifth
Third’s credit ratings resulting from a further decrease in the probability of government support for large financial institutions such as Fifth Third assumed by the ratings agencies in their current credit ratings.

If Fifth Third is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access capital markets on
favorable terms or if Fifth Third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively; liquidity, operating margins, financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. As Fifth Third did
during the financial crisis, it may also need to raise additional capital through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends to preserve capital.

Fifth Third may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent loans are concentrated by location of the borrower or
collateral.

Fifth Third’s credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are concentrated to borrowers
engaged in the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. Deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions and real estate values in these states
and generally across the country could result in materially higher credit losses.

Fifth Third may be required to
repurchase residential mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties.

Fifth Third sells residential mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs and other financial institutions that purchase residential mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization.
Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of
contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 60 days or less) after Fifth Third receives notice of the breach. Contracts for residential mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific
remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. If economic conditions and the housing market do not recover or future investor repurchase demand and success at appealing repurchase requests differ from
past experience, Fifth Third could continue to have increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase reserve.

If Fifth Third does not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer.

Fifth Third’s ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns on investment to shareholders will
depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional
banking services, Fifth Third’s competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, specialty finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services that may include services that
banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product
delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers.

If Fifth Third is unable to grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher
funding costs.

The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is dependent, in part, on Fifth Third’s
ability to grow its deposits. If Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. Fifth Third competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If competitors raise the
rates they pay on deposits, Fifth Third’s funding costs may increase, either because Fifth Third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because Fifth Third loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding
costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. Fifth Third’s bank customers could take their money out of the bank and put it in alternative investments, causing Fifth Third to lose a lower cost source of funding. Checking and
savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff.

The Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its
liquidity and ability to pay dividends.

Fifth Third Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its
subsidiaries. Fifth Third Bancorp typically receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth Third Bancorp’s stock and interest and
principal on its debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay. Regulatory scrutiny of
capital levels at bank holding companies and insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased since the financial crisis and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other
distributions to shareholders of banks such as the parent bank holding companies. Also, Fifth Third Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims
of that subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on the Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and principal on its
debt.

The financial services industry is highly competitive and creates competitive pressures that could adversely
affect Fifth Third’s revenue and profitability.

The financial services industry in which Fifth Third operates is
highly competitive. Fifth Third competes not only with commercial banks, but also with insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over the internet. Fifth Third competes
on the basis of several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more
concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. These developments could result in Fifth Third’s competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a
broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. Fifth Third may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of its competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices.




Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be adversely affected by
unfavorable ratings from rating agencies.

Fifth Third’s ability to access the capital markets is important to its
overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to Fifth Third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. The interest rates that Fifth Third pays on its securities are
also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to Fifth Third or its subsidiaries’ credit rating could affect its ability to access
the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth Third, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create obligations or liabilities to Fifth Third under the terms of its
outstanding securities that could increase Fifth Third’s costs or otherwise have a negative effect on its results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by Fifth
Third or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.

Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel.

Fifth Third’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates in the activities and markets that Fifth Third serves is great
and Fifth Third may not be able to hire these candidates and retain them. If Fifth Third is not able to hire or retain these key individuals, Fifth Third may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its
business, operations and financial condition.

In June 2010, the federal banking agencies issued joint
guidance on executive compensation designed to help ensure that a banking organization’s incentive compensation policies do not encourage imprudent risk taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. In addition,
the Dodd-Frank Act requires those agencies, along with the SEC, to adopt rules to require reporting of incentive compensation and to prohibit certain compensation arrangements. The federal banking agencies and the SEC proposed such rules in April
2011. In addition, in June 2012, the SEC issued final rules to implement Dodd-Frank’s requirement that the SEC direct the national securities exchanges to adopt certain listing standards related to the compensation committee of a company’s
board of directors as well as its compensation advisers. If Fifth Third is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain
employees become more expensive, Fifth Third’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.

Fifth Third’s mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter.

Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue
Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, revenue from MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting
revenue effect. Even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a “natural hedge,” the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential
MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans would accrue over time. It is also possible that, because of the

recession and deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the
decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.

Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other
instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. Fifth Third generally does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third attempts to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be successful. Hedging is a complex
process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. Fifth Third may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. Fifth Third could
incur significant losses from its hedging activities. There may be periods where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.

Fifth Third uses financial models for business planning purposes that may not adequately predict future results.

Fifth Third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various purposes including its capital and liquidity needs, potential
charge-offs, reserves, and other purposes. The models used may not accurately account for all variables that could affect future results, may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or understate certain effects. As a result of
these potential failures, Fifth Third may not adequately prepare for future events and may suffer losses or other setbacks due to these failures.

Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of MSRs.

Fifth Third acquires MSRs when it keeps the servicing rights after the sale or securitization of the loans that have been originated or
when it purchases the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. Fifth Third initially measures all residential MSRs at fair value and subsequently amortizes the MSRs in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net
servicing income. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Servicing rights are assessed for
impairment monthly, based on fair value, with temporary impairment recognized through a valuation allowance and permanent impairment recognized through a write-off of the servicing asset and related valuation allowance.

Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are
usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of MSRs can decrease. Each quarter Fifth Third evaluates the fair value of MSRs, and decreases in fair
value below amortized cost reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs.

The preparation of Fifth
Third’s financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results.

The preparation of
consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. See the “Critical Accounting Policies” section of the MD&A for more information
regarding management’s significant estimates. Additionally, Fifth Third’s litigation reserve is a management estimate which is regularly reviewed for accuracy.

Fifth Third regularly reviews its litigation reserve for adequacy considering its litigation risks and probability of
incurring losses related to litigation. However, Fifth Third cannot be certain that its current litigation reserves will be adequate over time to cover its losses in litigation due to higher than anticipated settlement costs, prolonged litigation,
adverse judgments, or other factors that are largely outside of Fifth Third’s control. If Fifth Third’s litigation

Fifth Third Bancorp



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

reserves are not adequate, Fifth Third’s business, financial condition, including its liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally,
in the future, Fifth Third may increase its litigation reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on its capital and results of operations.

Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could impact Fifth Third’s reported earnings and financial condition.

The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial accounting
and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Fifth Third’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third records and reports its financial condition and results of
operations. In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the recasting of Fifth Third’s prior period financial statements.

Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders’ ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to become more
susceptible to adverse economic events.

Future business acquisitions could be material to Fifth Third and it may issue
additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those
events, Fifth Third could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.

Difficulties in
combining the operations of acquired entities with Fifth Third’s own operations may prevent Fifth Third from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions.

Inherent uncertainties exist when integrating the operations of an acquired entity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an
acquisition. In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth Third and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. Fifth Third may lose customers or the customers of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition.
Future acquisition and integration activities may require Fifth Third to devote substantial time and resources and as a result Fifth Third may not be able to pursue other business opportunities.

After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain items are not accounted for properly in accordance with
financial accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity. For example, Fifth Third could experience higher charge-offs
than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio.

Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more
of its businesses. Should it determine to sell such a business, it may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in shareholders’ equity commensurate with desirable levels. Moreover, if Fifth Third sold such businesses, the loss
of income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future growth.

Fifth Third owns several non-strategic
businesses that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial services businesses. Fifth Third has, from time to time, considered the sale of such businesses. If it were to determine to sell such businesses, Fifth Third would be subject
to market forces that may make completion of a sale unsuccessful or may not be able to do so within a desirable

time frame. If Fifth Third were to complete the sale of non-core businesses, it would suffer the loss of income from the sold businesses, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on
its future earnings and growth.

Fifth Third relies on its systems and certain service providers, and certain failures
could materially adversely affect operations.

Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by
utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. Fifth Third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the system
will not be inoperable. Fifth Third also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the system. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, Fifth Third cannot be certain that the
measures will be successful. A security breach in the system and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could result in losing the customers’ confidence and thus the loss of their business as well
as additional significant costs for privacy monitoring activities.

Fifth Third’s necessary dependence
upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be difficult to detect. Fifth Third may also
be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). Fifth Third is further exposed to the risk that its third party service
providers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors as Fifth Third). These disruptions may interfere with service to Fifth Third’s customers and result in a
financial loss or liability.

Fifth Third is exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial of service, hacking, and
identity theft.

Recently, there has been a well-publicized series of apparently related distributed denial of service
attacks on large financial services companies, including Fifth Third Bank. Distributed denial of service attacks are designed to saturate the targeted online network with excessive amounts of network traffic, resulting in slow response times, or in
some cases, causing the site to be temporarily unavailable. To date these attacks have not been intended to steal financial data, but meant to interrupt or suspend a company’s Internet service. These events did not result in a breach of Fifth
Third’s client data and account information remained secure; however, the attacks did adversely affect the performance of Fifth Third’s website and in some instances prevented customers from accessing Fifth Third’s website. While the
event was resolved in a timely fashion and primarily resulted in inconvenience to our customers, future cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and damaging. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm.
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and Fifth Third may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. Fifth Third may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss.

Fifth Third is exposed to operational and reputational risk.

Fifth Third is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, environmental risks from
its properties, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, customers or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees, operating system disruptions or operational errors.




Negative public opinion can result from Fifth Third’s actual or
alleged conduct in activities, such as lending practices, data security, corporate governance and acquisitions, and may damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Additionally, actions taken by government regulators and community organizations may also
damage Fifth Third’s reputation. This negative public opinion can adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action.

The results of Vantiv, LLC could have a negative impact on Fifth Third’s operating results and financial condition.

During the second quarter of 2009, Fifth Third sold an approximate 51% interest in its processing business, Vantiv, LLC (formerly Fifth
Third Processing Solutions). As a result of the Vantiv, Inc. IPO, the Bancorp’s ownership of Vantiv Holding, LLC was reduced to approximately 39% in the first quarter of 2012. In addition, Fifth Third sold an approximate 6% interest during the
fourth quarter of 2012. Based on Fifth Third’s current ownership share in Vantiv Holding, LLC, of approximately 33%, Vantiv Holding, LLC is accounted for under the equity method and is not consolidated. Poor operating results of Vantiv, LLC
could negatively affect the operating results of Fifth Third. In addition, Fifth Third participates in a multi lender credit facility to Vantiv Holding, LLC and repayment of these loans is contingent on future cash flows from Vantiv Holding, LLC.

Weather related events or other natural disasters may have an effect on the performance of Fifth Third’s loan
portfolios, especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting its results of operations.

Fifth
Third’s footprint stretches from the upper Midwestern to lower Southeastern regions of the United States. This area has experienced weather events including hurricanes and other natural disasters. The nature and level of these events and the
impact of global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be predicted. If large scale events occur, they may significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as well as impairing its
borrowers’ ability to repay their loans.

RISKS RELATED TO THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT

As a regulated entity, the Bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.

The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding company. As such, it is subject to the comprehensive,
consolidated supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements. The Bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by its banking regulators and which can change depending
upon general economic conditions and the Bancorp’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and
could adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels.

Comprehensive revisions to the regulatory capital framework were proposed by the FRB, OCC, and FDIC in June 2012.
Included within those revisions is the Basel III NPR, which incorporates changes made by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to the Basel Capital framework in addition to implementing relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Basel III
NPR specifically revises what qualifies as regulatory capital, raises minimum requirements and introduces the concept of additional capital buffers. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well

as greater liquidity going forward could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. In addition, the new liquidity
standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. Moreover, although these
new requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. Federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that
represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases.

The Bancorp’s banking
subsidiary must remain well-capitalized, well-managed and maintain at least a “Satisfactory” CRA rating for the Bancorp to retain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet these requirements could result in the FRB placing
limitations or conditions on the Bancorp’s activities (and the commencement of new activities) and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status. In addition, failure by the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary to meet
applicable capital guidelines could subject the bank to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a
capital directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.

Fifth Third’s
business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new or changed regulations and by the manner in which such regulations are applied by regulatory authorities.

Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased
focus on and scrutiny of the financial services industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by introducing various actions and passing legislations
such as the Dodd-Frank Act. Such programs and legislation subject Fifth Third and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or costs that may have an impact on Fifth Third’s business, financial condition, results of operations
or the price of its common stock.

New proposals for legislation and regulations continue to be introduced
that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry. Fifth Third cannot predict whether any pending or future legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on Fifth Third.
Additional regulation could affect Fifth Third in a substantial way and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.

During the third quarter of 2012, the OCC, a national bank regulatory agency, issued interpretive guidance that requires
Chapter 7 non-reaffirmed loans to be accounted for as nonperforming TDRs and collateral dependent loans regardless of their payment history and capacity to pay in the future. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is a state chartered bank which
therefore is not directly subject to the guidance of the OCC. At December 31, 2012, the Bancorp had loans with unpaid principal balances totaling approximately $175 million that could potentially be impacted by this guidance, of which
approximately 87% are current with their original contractual payments and approximately one third are already classified as TDRs.

Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.

Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding

Fifth Third Bancorp



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

companies, the FRB, the CFPB, and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions by Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary. Fifth Third and
its banking subsidiary are subject to such supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate decisions. There can be no assurance that such
approvals, if required, would be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair Fifth Third’s operations, restrict its growth and/or affect its
dividend policy. Such actions and activities subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its banking subsidiary, entering into a merger or acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing
new branches, and entering into certain new businesses.

In addition, Fifth Third, as well as other financial
institutions more generally, have recently been subjected to increased scrutiny from regulatory authorities stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, capital levels, asset quality, provisioning and
other prudential matters, arising as a result of the recent financial crisis and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises.

In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or
limit a financial institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third’s regular examination process, Fifth Third’s and its banking subsidiary’s respective regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under various
restrictions as a prudential matter. Such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could have a material adverse effect on Fifth Third’s business and results of operations and may not be publicly disclosed.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests,
investigations and proceedings by government and self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations
and proceedings (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies, including the SEC, regarding their respective businesses. Such matters may result in material adverse consequences, including without limitation, adverse
judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third’s SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure
controls and procedures. The SEC is investigating and has made several requests for information, including by subpoena, and interviews of certain of our current and former officers and employees and others, concerning issues which Fifth Third
understands relate to accounting and reporting matters involving certain of its commercial loans. This could lead to an enforcement proceeding by the SEC which, in turn, may result in one or more such material adverse consequences.

Deposit insurance premiums levied against Fifth Third may increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of resolving failed banks
increases.

The FDIC maintains a DIF to resolve the cost of bank failures. The DIF is funded by fees assessed on
insured depository institutions including Fifth Third. The magnitude and cost of resolving an increased number of bank failures have reduced the DIF. Future deposit premiums paid by Fifth Third depend on the level of the DIF and the magnitude and
cost of future bank failures. Fifth Third also may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the DIF of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.

Legislative or regulatory compliance, changes or actions or significant litigation, could adversely
impact Fifth Third or the businesses in which Fifth Third is engaged.

Fifth Third is subject to extensive state and
federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations and limit the businesses in which Fifth Third may engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the
protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact Fifth Third or its ability to increase the value of its business.
Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against Fifth Third could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect Fifth Third and its shareholders.
Future changes in the laws, including tax laws, or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse to Fifth Third and its shareholders or may require Fifth Third to expend significant time and resources to comply
with such requirements.

On July 21, 2010 the President of the United States signed into law the
Dodd-Frank Act. Many parts of the Dodd-Frank Act are now in effect, while others are in an implementation stage likely to continue for several years. A number of reform provisions are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank
holding companies, including Fifth Third and its bank subsidiary, conduct their business:

•

The newly created regulatory bodies include the CFPB and the FSOC. The CFPB has been given authority to regulate consumer financial products and
services sold by banks and non-bank companies and to supervise banks with assets of more than $10 billion and their affiliates for compliance with Federal consumer protection laws. Any new regulatory requirements promulgated by the CFPB could
require changes to our consumer businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the streams of revenue of such businesses. The FSOC has been charged with identifying systemic risks, promoting stronger financial regulation and identifying
those non-bank companies that are systemically important and thus should be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve. In addition, in extraordinary cases and together with the Federal Reserve, the FSOC could break up financial firms that are
deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States.

•

The Dodd-Frank Act “Volcker Rule” provisions prohibit banks and bank holding companies from engaging in certain types of proprietary
trading. The scope of the proprietary trading prohibition, and its impact on Fifth Third, will depend on the definitions in the final rule, particularly those definitions related to statutory exemptions for risk-mitigating hedging activities;
market-making; and customer-related activities.

•

The Volcker Rule and the rulemakings promulgated thereunder are also expected to restrict banks and their affiliated entities from investing in or




sponsoring certain private equity and hedge funds. Fifth Third does not sponsor any private equity or hedge funds that, under the proposed rule, it is prohibited from sponsoring. As of
December 31, 2012, the Bancorp had approximately $163 million in interests and approximately $108 million binding commitments to invest in private equity funds likely to be affected by the Volcker rule. It is expected that over time the Bancorp
may need to eliminate these investments although it is likely that these amounts will be reduced over time in the ordinary course before compliance is required. Under the proposed rulemaking announced on October 11, 2011, Fifth Third expects to
be able to hold these investments until July 2014 with no restriction, and be eligible to obtain up to three one-year extension periods, subject to regulatory approvals. A forced sale of some of these investments could result in Fifth Third
receiving less value than it would otherwise have received. Depending on the provisions of the final rule, it is possible that other structures through which Fifth Third conduct business but that are not typically referred to as private equity or
hedge funds could be restricted, with an impact that cannot be evaluated.

•

The FDIC and the Federal Reserve have adopted a final rule that requires bank holding companies that have $50 billion or more in assets, like Fifth
Third, to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the FSOC a plan discussing how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. In a related
rulemaking, the FDIC adopted a final rule that requires insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in assets, like Fifth Third, to prepare and submit a resolution plan to the FDIC. The initial plans for Fifth Third and its bank
subsidiary are due December 31, 2013. Fifth Third and its bank subsidiary will be required to submit updated plans annually thereafter. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on Fifth Third or its bank subsidiary,
including additional capital requirements or limitations on growth, if the agencies determine that the institution’s plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of Fifth Third under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, or
Fifth Third Bank under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDIA”), and additionally could require Fifth Third to divest assets or take other actions if it did not submit an acceptable resolution within two years after any
such restrictions were imposed.

•

Dodd-Frank imposes a new regulatory regime on the U.S. derivatives markets. While some of the provisions related to derivatives markets went into
effect on July 16, 2011, most of the new requirements await final regulations from the relevant regulatory agencies for derivatives, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC. One aspect of this new regulatory
regime for derivatives is that substantial oversight responsibility has been

provided to the CFTC, which, as a result, will for the first time have a meaningful supervisory role with respect to some of our businesses. Although the ultimate impact will depend on the final
regulations, Fifth Third expects that its derivatives business will likely be subject to new substantive requirements, including registration with the CFTC, margin requirements in excess of current market practice, capital requirements specific to
this business, real time trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of
interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of all standardized swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be cleared. These requirements will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on
Fifth Third and will introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action). Depending on the final rules that relate to Fifth Third’s swaps
businesses, the nature and extent of those businesses may change.

•

Financial institutions may be required, regardless of risk, to pay taxes or other fees to the U.S. Treasury. Such taxes or other fees could be
designed to reimburse the U.S. Treasury for the many government programs and initiatives it has taken or may undertake as part of its economic stimulus efforts.

It is clear that the reforms, both under the Dodd-Frank Act and otherwise, will have a significant effect on the entire
financial industry. Although it is difficult to predict the magnitude and extent of these effects at this stage, Fifth Third believes compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations and other initiatives will likely negatively
impact revenue and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis, and may also limit Fifth Third’s ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities. Any new regulatory requirements
or changes to existing requirements could require changes to Fifth Third’s businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. Additionally, reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that
we deal with in the course of our business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. The extent to which Fifth Third can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known at this time.

Fifth Third and other financial institutions have been the subject of litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to
its reputation.

Fifth Third and certain of its directors and officers have been named from time to time as defendants
in various class actions and other litigation relating to Fifth Third’s business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for
indeterminate amounts of damages. Fifth Third is also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding its business. These matters also
could result in

Fifth Third Bancorp



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Like other large financial institutions and companies, Fifth Third is also subject to risk from potential employee
misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against Fifth Third could materially adversely affect its business, financial
condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to its business.

Fifth Third’s
ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its capital stock is restricted.

Fifth
Third’s ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to regulatory requirements and the need to meet regulatory expectations. The FRB launched the 2013 stress testing program and CCAR on November 9, 2012. The CCAR requires bank
holding companies to submit a capital plan in addition to their stress testing results. The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment of the expected use and sources of capital over the planning horizon, a description of all planned
capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the Bancorp’s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the Bancorp’s process
for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp’s capital policy. The stress testing results and capital plan were submitted to the FRB on January 7, 2013.

The FRB’s review of the capital plan will assess the comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of
the assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. Additionally, the FRB will review the robustness of the capital adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp’s ability to maintain capital above the minimum regulatory
capital ratios and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the planning horizon. The FRB will also assess the Bancorp’s strategies for addressing proposed revisions to the
regulatory capital framework agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and requirements arising from the Dodd-Frank Act.




