ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The risks listed here are not the only risks that Fifth Third faces. Additional risks that
are not presently known or that Fifth Third presently deems to be immaterial could also have a material, adverse impact on its financial condition, the results of its operations, or its business.

RISKS RELATING TO ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS

Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within Fifth Third’s geographic footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third and may continue to adversely
affect Fifth Third.

If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which
Fifth Third conducts operations declines or does not improve in a reasonable time frame, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on Fifth Third’s
loan portfolio and ALLL and in the receipt of lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. A significant portion of Fifth Third’s residential mortgage and commercial real estate loan portfolios are comprised of borrowers in
Michigan, Northern Ohio and Florida, which markets have been particularly adversely affected by job losses, declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. These factors could result in higher
delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses on the sale of foreclosed real estate in future periods, which could materially adversely affect Fifth Third’s financial condition and results of operations.

Changes in interest rates could affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows.

Fifth Third’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning
assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Fifth Third’s control, including
general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of
loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth Third does not
effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third and its shareholders.

Changes and trends in the capital markets may affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows.

Fifth Third enters into and maintains trading and investment positions in the capital markets on its own behalf and manages investment
positions on behalf of its customers. These investment positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and profits Fifth Third derives from managing proprietary and customer trading and investment positions are dependent on market
prices. If Fifth Third does not correctly anticipate market changes and trends, Fifth Third may experience a decline in investment advisory revenue or investment or trading losses that may materially affect Fifth Third. Losses on behalf of its
customers could expose Fifth Third to litigation, credit risks or loss of revenue from those customers. Additionally, substantial losses in Fifth Third’s

trading and investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely affect cash flows and funding costs.

The removal or reduction in stimulus activities sponsored by the Federal Government and its agents may have a negative impact on
Fifth Third’s results and operations.

The Federal Government has intervened in an unprecedented manner to
stimulate economic growth. Some of these activities have included the following:

•

Target fed funds rates which have remained close to zero percent;

•

Mortgage rates that have remained at historical lows in part due to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s $1.25 trillion mortgage-backed
securities purchase program;

•

Bank funding that has remained stable through an increase in FDIC deposit insurance to a covered limit of $250,000 per account from the previous
coverage limit of $100,000; and

•

Housing demand that has been stimulated by homebuyer tax credits.

The expiration or rescission of any of these programs may have an adverse impact on Fifth Third’s operating results
by increasing interest rates, increasing the cost of funding, and reducing the demand for loan products, including mortgage loans.

Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third.

The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading,
clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other
institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Bancorp interacts on a
daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Fifth Third.

Fifth Third’s stock price is volatile.

Fifth Third’s stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate
substantially in the future. These factors include:

•

Actual or anticipated variations in earnings;

•

Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;

•

Fifth Third’s announcements of developments related to its businesses;

•

Operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;

•

Actions by government regulators;

•

New technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors; and

•

News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry.

The price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated
to Fifth Third’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock, and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of
future market prices.

Fifth Third Bancorp



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS

RISKS RELATING TO FIFTH THIRD’S GENERAL BUSINESS

Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted Fifth Third and may continue to adversely
impact Fifth Third.

Fifth Third has experienced a downturn in credit performance and credit conditions and the
performance of its loan portfolio could deteriorate in the future. The downturn caused Fifth Third to increase its ALLL, driven primarily by higher allocations related to residential mortgage and home equity loans, commercial real estate loans and
loans of entities related to or dependent upon the real estate industry. If the performance of Fifth Third’s loan portfolio does not continue to improve and/or stabilize, additional increases in the ALLL may be necessary in the future.
Accordingly, a decrease in the quality of Fifth Third’s credit portfolio could have a material adverse effect on earnings and results of operations.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third’s ability to maintain sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which it operates. Additionally, if Fifth Third sought additional
sources of capital, liquidity or funding, those additional sources could dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests.

If Fifth Third does not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer.

Fifth Third’s ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns on investment to shareholders will
depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional
banking services, Fifth Third’s competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, specialty finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services that may include services that
banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product
delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers.

If Fifth Third is
unable to grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs.

The total amount that Fifth Third pays
for funding costs is dependent, in part, on Fifth Third’s ability to grow its deposits. If Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. This could materially adversely affect Fifth
Third’s earnings and results of operations.

Fifth Third’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries
accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends.

Fifth Third Bancorp is
a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. Fifth Third Bancorp typically receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth
Third Bancorp’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the

amount of dividends that Fifth Third’s bank and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay. Also, Fifth Third Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a
subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on Fifth Third’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on Fifth
Third’s liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and principal on its debt.

The financial
services industry is highly competitive and creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect Fifth Third’s revenue and profitability.

The financial services industry in which Fifth Third operates is highly competitive. Fifth Third competes not only with commercial banks, but also with insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, and
other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over the internet. Fifth Third competes on the basis of several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution,
innovation, reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms.
Recently, this trend accelerated considerably, as several major U.S. financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge, received substantial government assistance or were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. Government. These developments
could result in Fifth Third’s competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. Fifth Third may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as
some of its competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices.

Fifth Third and/or the holders of its
securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies.

Fifth Third’s ability to
access the capital markets is important to its overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to Fifth Third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. The interest
rates that Fifth Third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to Fifth Third or its
subsidiaries’ credit rating could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth Third, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create
obligations or liabilities to Fifth Third under the terms of its outstanding securities that could increase Fifth Third’s costs or otherwise have a negative effect on the Bancorp’s results of operations or financial condition.
Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by Fifth Third or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such
securities may be sold. On November 1, 2010, citing their view that the likelihood of government support in the future for larger regional banks had declined, Moody’s downgraded ten large regional banks, including Fifth Third’s
subsidiary bank, Fifth Third Bank. Fifth Third Bank’s credit ratings for short-term obligations, long-term deposit and senior debt were downgraded to P2, A3 and A3, respectively, from P1, A2 and A2, respectively. During 2010, DBRS Investors
Service downgraded Fifth Third’s issuer rating to “AL” from “A” and downgraded the long term debt rating and deposit ratings for Fifth Third’s bank subsidiary to “A” from “AH.”


Fifth Third Bancorp


MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS

Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel.

As Fifth Third continues to grow, its success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key
individuals. Competition for qualified candidates in the activities and markets that Fifth Third serves is great and Fifth Third may not be able to hire these candidates and retain them. If Fifth Third is not able to hire or retain these key
individuals, Fifth Third may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial condition.

Pursuant to the standardized terms of the CPP, among other things, Fifth Third has agreed to institute certain
restrictions on the compensation of certain senior management positions, which could have an adverse effect on Fifth Third’s ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior management. It is possible that the U.S. Treasury may, as it is
permitted to do, impose further requirements on Fifth Third. In June 2010, the federal banking agencies issued joint guidance on executive compensation intended to ensure that a bank organization’s incentive compensation policies don’t
encourage excessive risk taking. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires those agencies to adopt guidance or rules to enhance the reporting of incentive compensation and to prohibit certain compensation arrangements. Also in 2010, the FDIC issued a
request for comments on whether banks with compensation plans that encourage excessive risk taking should be charged at higher deposit assessment rates than such banks would otherwise be charged. If Fifth Third is unable to attract and retain
qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, Fifth Third’s performance, including its competitive position, could
be materially adversely affected.

Fifth Third’s mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter.

Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans.
When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, revenue from MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations
tend to increase and the value of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though they can act as a “natural hedge,” the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on
revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans would accrue over time. It is also possible that, because of the recession
and deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.

Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk.
Fifth Third generally does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third attempts to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant
monitoring, and is not a perfect science. Fifth Third may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. Fifth Third could incur significant losses
from its hedging activities. There may be periods where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.

The preparation of Fifth Third’s financial statements requires the use of
estimates that may vary from actual results.

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
U.S. GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Two of Fifth Third’s most critical estimates are the level of the ALLL and the valuation of mortgage servicing rights. Due to the uncertainty of
estimates involved, Fifth Third may have to significantly increase the ALLL and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance and could recognize a significant provision for impairment of its mortgage servicing
rights. If Fifth Third’s ALLL is not adequate, Fifth Third’s business, financial condition, including its liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

Fifth Third regularly reviews its litigation reserves for adequacy considering its litigation risks and probability of
incurring losses related to litigation. However, Fifth Third cannot be certain that its current litigation reserves will be adequate over time to cover its losses in litigation due to higher than anticipated settlement costs, prolonged litigation,
adverse judgments, or other factors that are largely outside of Fifth Third’s control. If Fifth Third’s litigation reserves are not adequate, Fifth Third’s business, financial condition, including its liquidity and capital, and
results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in the future, Fifth Third may increase its litigation reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on its capital and results of operations.

Changes in accounting standards could impact Fifth Third’s reported earnings and financial condition.

The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and
reporting standards that govern the preparation of Fifth Third’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third records and reports its financial condition and results of
operations. In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the recasting of Fifth Third’s prior period financial statements.

Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders’ ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to become more
susceptible to adverse economic events.

Future business acquisitions could be material to Fifth Third and it may issue
additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those
events, Fifth Third could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.

Difficulties in
combining the operations of acquired entities with Fifth Third’s own operations may prevent Fifth Third from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions.

Inherent uncertainties exist when integrating the operations of an acquired entity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an
acquisition. In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth Third and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. Fifth Third may lose customers or the customers of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition.
Future acquisition and integration activities may require Fifth Third to devote substantial time and resources and as a result Fifth Third may not be able to pursue other business opportunities.

After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain items are not accounted for properly in accordance

Fifth Third Bancorp



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS

with financial accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity. For
example, Fifth Third could experience higher charge offs than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio.

Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its businesses. Should it determine to sell such a business, it may not be
able to generate gains on sale or related increase in shareholders’ equity commensurate with desirable levels. Moreover, if Fifth Third sold such businesses, the loss of income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future growth.

Fifth Third owns several non-strategic businesses that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial
services businesses. Fifth Third has, from time to time, considered the sale of such businesses. If it were to determine to sell such businesses, Fifth Third would be subject to market forces that may make completion of a sale unsuccessful or may
not be able to do so within a desirable time frame. If Fifth Third were to complete the sale of non-core businesses, it would suffer the loss of income from the sold businesses, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on its future
earnings and growth.

Material breaches in security of Fifth Third’s systems may have a significant effect on Fifth
Third’s business.

Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer
systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. Fifth Third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the system will not be
inoperable. Fifth Third also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the system. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, Fifth Third cannot be certain that the measures will
be successful. A security breach in the system and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could result in losing the customers’ confidence and thus the loss of their business as well as additional
significant costs for privacy monitoring activities.

Fifth Third is exposed to operational and reputational risk.

Fifth Third is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk,
environmental risks from its properties, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, customers or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees, operating system disruptions or operational errors.

Negative public opinion can result from Fifth Third’s actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as
lending practices, data security, corporate governance and acquisitions, and may damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Negative public opinion has been observed in relation to banks participating in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP program, in which
Fifth Third was a participant. Additionally, actions taken by government regulators and community organizations may also damage Fifth Third’s reputation. This negative public opinion can adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to attract
and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action.

Fifth Third’s necessary
dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be difficult to detect. Fifth
Third may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). Fifth Third is further exposed to the risk that its third
party service providers

may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors as Fifth Third). These disruptions may interfere with service to Fifth
Third’s customers and result in a financial loss or liability.

The inability of FTPS to succeed as a stand-alone
entity could have a negative impact on Fifth Third’s operating results and financial condition.

During the second
quarter of 2009, Fifth Third sold an approximate 51% interest in FTPS to Advent International. Prior to the sale, FTPS relied on Fifth Third to support its operating and administrative functions. Fifth Third has entered into agreements to provide
FTPS certain services during the deconversion period. Fifth Third’s operating results may suffer if the cost of providing these services exceeds the amount received from FTPS. As part of the sale, FTPS also assumed loans owed Fifth Third.
Repayment of these loans is contingent on future cash flows and profitability at FTPS.

In connection with
the sale, Fifth Third provided Advent International with certain put rights that are exercisable in the event of three unlikely circumstances. Based on Fifth Third’s current ownership share in FTPS of approximately 49%, FTPS is accounted for
under the equity method and is not consolidated. The exercise of the put rights would result in FTPS becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Fifth Third. As a result, FTPS would be consolidated and would subject Fifth Third to the risks inherent in
integrating a business. Additionally, such a change in the accounting treatment for FTPS may adversely impact Fifth Third’s capital.

Weather related events or other natural disasters may have an effect on the performance of Fifth Third’s loan portfolios, especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting its
results of operations.

Fifth Third’s footprint stretches from the upper Midwestern to lower Southeastern regions
of the United States. This area has experienced weather events including hurricanes and other natural disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be predicted. If
large scale events occur, they may significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as well as impairing its borrower’s ability to repay their loans.

RISKS RELATED TO THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT

As a regulated
entity, Fifth Third must maintain certain capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.

Fifth Third is a bank holding company and a financial holding company. As such, Fifth Third is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated
supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements. Fifth Third must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by its banking regulators and which can change depending upon general
economic conditions and Fifth Third’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely
affect Fifth Third’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels.

Fifth Third’s
subsidiary bank must remain well-capitalized, well-managed and maintain at least a “Satisfactory” CRA rating for Fifth Third to retain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet these requirements could result in the FRB
placing limitations or conditions on Fifth Third’s activities (and the commencement of new activities) and could




ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status. In addition, failure by Fifth Third’s bank subsidiary to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the bank to a
variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, and the termination of
deposit insurance by the FDIC.

Fifth Third’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be
adversely affected by new or changed regulations and by the manner in which such regulations are applied by regulatory authorities.

Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased focus on and scrutiny of the financial services industry. The U.S.
Government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis. In addition to the Bancorp’s participation in U.S. Treasury’s CPP and Capital Assistance Program, the U.S.
Government has taken steps that include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and
increasing insured deposits. These programs subject the Bancorp and other financial institutions who have participated in these programs to additional restrictions, oversight and/or costs that may have an impact on the Bancorp’s business,
financial condition, results of operations or the price of its common stock.

Compliance with such regulation
and scrutiny may significantly increase the Bancorp’s costs, impede the efficiency of its internal business processes, require it to increase its regulatory capital and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner.
The Bancorp also may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The increased costs associated
with anticipated regulatory and political scrutiny could adversely impact the Bancorp’s results of operations.

New proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry. The Bancorp cannot predict whether any
pending or future legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on the Bancorp. Additional regulation could affect the Bancorp in a substantial way and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that limit its operations
and potential growth.

Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured
depository institutions and their holding companies, the FRB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions by Fifth Third and its subsidiary bank. Fifth Third and its subsidiary bank are
subject to such supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate decisions. There can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would
be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair Fifth Third’s operations, restrict its growth and/or affect its dividend policy. Such actions
and activities subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its subsidiary bank, purchasing or redeeming any shares of its stock, entering into a merger or

acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing new branches, and entering into new businesses.

In addition, Fifth Third, as well as other financial institutions more generally, have recently been subjected to increased scrutiny from regulatory authorities stemming from broader systemic regulatory
concerns, including with respect to stress testing, capital levels, asset quality, provisioning and other prudential matters, arising as a result of the recent financial crisis and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve
their risk management and prevent future crises.

In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory
actions that are considered to be confidential supervisory information which may not be publicly disclosed. Finally, as part of Fifth Third’s regular examination process, Fifth Third’s and its subsidiary bank’s respective regulators
may advise it and its subsidiary bank to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. Such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could have a material adverse effect on Fifth Third’s business and
results of operations.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in
information-gathering requests, investigations and proceedings by government and self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by government and
self-regulatory agencies, including the SEC, regarding their respective businesses. Such matters may result in material adverse consequences, including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other
actions, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third’s SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures. The SEC is investigating and has made
several requests for information, including by subpoena, concerning issues which Fifth Third understands relate to accounting and reporting matters involving certain of its commercial loans. This could lead to an enforcement proceeding by the SEC
which, in turn, may result in one or more such material adverse consequences.

Deposit insurance premiums levied against
Fifth Third may increase if the number of bank failures do not subside or the cost of resolving failed banks increases.

The FDIC maintains a DIF to resolve the cost of bank failures. The DIF is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions
including Fifth Third. The magnitude and cost of resolving an increased number of bank failures have reduced the DIF. In 2009, the FDIC collected a special assessment to replenish the DIF. In addition, a prepayment of an estimated amount of future
deposit insurance premiums was made on December 30, 2009. Future deposit premiums paid by Fifth Third depend on the level of the DIF and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures.

Legislative or regulatory compliance, changes or actions or significant litigation, could adversely impact the Bancorp or the
businesses in which the Bancorp is engaged.

The Bancorp is subject to extensive state and federal regulation,
supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations and limit the businesses in which the Bancorp may engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of
consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact the Bancorp or

Fifth Third Bancorp



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS

its ability to increase the value of its business. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against the Bancorp could cause it to devote significant time and
resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect the Bancorp and its shareholders. Future changes in the laws, including tax laws, or, as a participant in the CPP under the EESA, the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder or the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse to the Bancorp and its shareholders or may require the Bancorp to expend significant time and
resources to comply with such requirements.

On July 21, 2010 the President of the United States signed
into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act will have material implications for Fifth Third and the entire financial services industry. Among other things it will or potentially could:

•

Result in Fifth Third being subject to enhanced oversight and scrutiny as a result of being a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in
consolidated assets;

•

Result in the appointment of the FDIC as receiver of Fifth Third in an orderly liquidation proceeding, if the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, upon
recommendation of two-thirds of the FRB and the FDIC and in consultation with the President of the United States, finds Fifth Third to be in default or danger of default;

•

Affect the levels of capital and liquidity with which Fifth Third must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels (including a phased-in
elimination of Fifth Third’s existing trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital);

•

Subject Fifth Third to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the FDIC;

•

Impact Fifth Third’s ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities;

•

Impact a number of Fifth Third’s business and risk management strategies;

•

Restrict the revenue that Fifth Third generates from certain businesses, including interchange fee revenue generated by Fifth Third’s credit
card business;

•

Subject Fifth Third to a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which will have very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities; and

•

Subject Fifth Third to oversight and regulation by a new and different litigation and regulatory regime.

As the Dodd-Frank Act requires that many studies be conducted and that hundreds of regulations be written in order to fully implement it,
the full impact of this legislation on Fifth Third, its business strategies and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for a number of years. However, these impacts are expected to be substantial and some of them
are likely to adversely affect Fifth Third and its financial performance. The extent to which Fifth Third can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known at this time.

Fifth Third and other financial institutions have been the subject of increased
litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to its reputation.

Fifth Third and certain of its
directors and officers have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to Fifth Third’s business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims
for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. Fifth Third is also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and
self-regulatory agencies regarding its business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Like other large financial institutions and companies, Fifth Third is also subject to
risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against Fifth Third could materially adversely
affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to its business.

Fifth Third’s ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its capital stock is restricted.

Fifth Third’s ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to regulatory requirements and the need to
meet regulatory expectations.




