ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The risks listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the Bancorp’s financial condition, the results of its
operations, or its business. Some of these risks are interrelated, and the occurrence of one or more of them may exacerbate the effect of others.

CREDIT RISKS

Deteriorating
credit quality has adversely impacted Fifth Third in the past and may adversely impact Fifth Third in the future.

When Fifth
Third lends money or commits to lend money the Bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk of loss if borrowers do not repay their loans, leases, credit cards or other credit obligations. The performance of these credit portfolios significantly affects
the Bancorp’s financial results and condition. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more customers may have difficulty in repaying their credit obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and reserves
for credit losses. Fifth Third reserves for credit losses by establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. The amount of these reserves is based on Fifth Third’s assessment of credit losses inherent in the credit portfolios including
unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments is critical to Fifth Third’s financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about
the environment, including analysis of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans.

Fifth Third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its portfolios and have credit losses in excess of the amount
reserved. Fifth Third might increase the reserve because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower’s behavior. As an example, borrowers may
“strategically default,” or discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments.

Fifth Third believes that both the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover inherent losses at
December 31, 2017; however, there is no assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions decline. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, Fifth Third
may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce earnings.

For more information, refer to the
Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A and the Allowance for Loan and Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Commitments subsections of the Critical Accounting Policies section of MD&A.

Fifth Third may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent loans are concentrated by location or industry of the
borrowers or collateral.

Fifth Third’s credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are concentrated to borrowers
engaged in the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. Deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions and commodity and real estate values
in certain states or locations could result in materially higher credit losses if loans are

concentrated in those locations. Fifth Third has significant exposures to businesses in certain economic sectors such as manufacturing, real estate, financial services and insurance and
weaknesses in those businesses may adversely impact Fifth Third’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally Fifth Third has a substantial portfolio of commercial and residential real estate loans and weaknesses in
residential or commercial real estate markets may adversely impact Fifth Third’s business, results of operations or financial condition.

Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial markets generally
and have direct and indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third.

Fifth Third has exposure to counterparties in the financial services
industry and other industries, and routinely executes transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of Fifth Third’s
transactions with other financial institutions expose Fifth Third to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. In addition, Fifth Third’s credit risk may be affected when the collateral it holds cannot be realized or is
liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships
between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred
to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Bancorp interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely
affect Fifth Third.

LIQUIDITY RISKS

Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third primarily relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans Fifth Third makes and the operations of Fifth Third’s business. Core deposits, which
include transaction deposits and other time deposits, have historically provided Fifth Third with a sizeable source of relatively stable andlow-costfunds (average core deposits funded 71% of average total
assets for the year ending December 31, 2017). In addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include investments in the securities portfolio, Fifth Third’s sale or securitization of loans in secondary markets and the pledging of
loans and investment securities to access secured borrowing facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and Fifth Third’s ability to raise funds in domestic and international money and capital markets.

Fifth Third’s liquidity and ability to fund and run the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of
conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which
may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms.





186  Fifth Third Bancorp




Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect Fifth
Third’s liquidity and funding include:

●a lack of market or customer confidence in Fifth Third or negative news about Fifth Third or the financial services industry generally, which also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to
access the capital markets;

●the loss of customer deposits to alternative investments;

●inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets,

●increased regulatory requirements,

●and reductions in one or more of Fifth Third’s credit ratings.

A
reduced credit rating could adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to borrow funds and raise the cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that
could adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to raise capital. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which Fifth Third has little or no control such as what occurred during the financial crisis. While market
conditions have stabilized and, in many cases, improved, there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future.

Recent regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk management may also negatively impact Fifth Third’s results of
operations and competitive position. Various regulations have been adopted to impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including Fifth Third. These regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress
testing and minimum liquidity requirements. In addition, the NSFR has been proposed. Given the overlap and complex interactions of these new and prospective liquidity-related regulations with other regulatory changes, including the resolution and
recovery framework applicable to Fifth Third, the full impact of these regulations will remain uncertain until their full implementation. It is also uncertain whether adopted and proposed regulations will ultimately be rolled back or modified as a
result of the change in administration in the U.S. Uncertainty about the timing and scope of any such changes as well as the cost of complying with a new regulatory regime may negatively impact Fifth Third’s business.

If Fifth Third is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable
terms or if Fifth Third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively, then Fifth Third’s liquidity, operating margins, and financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. Fifth
Third may also need to raise additional capital through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends or share repurchases to preserve capital.

Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies.

Fifth Third’s ability to access the capital markets is important to its overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings
assigned by rating agencies to Fifth Third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. The interest rates that Fifth Third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that
it, its subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to Fifth Third or its subsidiaries’ credit

rating could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth Third, its subsidiaries or their
securities could also create obligations or liabilities of Fifth Third under the terms of its outstanding securities that could increase Fifth Third’s costs or otherwise have a negative effect on its results of operations or financial
condition. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by Fifth Third or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any
such securities may be sold.

If Fifth Third is unable to maintain or grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding
costs.

The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is dependent, in part, on Fifth Third’s ability to maintain
or grow its deposits. If Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently maintain or grow its deposits to meet liquidity objectives, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. Fifth Third competes with banks and other financial services companies for
deposits. If competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, Fifth Third’s funding costs may increase, either because Fifth Third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because Fifth Third loses deposits and must rely on more expensive
sources of funding. Also, customers typically move money from bank deposits to alternative investments during rising interest rate environments, an environment that the U.S. is expected to see over the medium-term. Checking and savings account
balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. Fifth Third’s bank customers could take their money out of the
Bank and put it in alternative investments, causing Fifth Third to lose a lower cost source of funding. Higher funding costs reduce Fifth Third’s net interest margin and net interest income.

The Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity
and ability to pay dividends.

Fifth Third Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. Fifth Third
Bancorp typically receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth Third Bancorp’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various
federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay. Regulatory scrutiny of liquidity and capital levels at
bank holding companies and insured depository institution subsidiaries has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other distributions to shareholders of banks such as the parent bank
holding companies. Also, Fifth Third Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on the
Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and principal on its debt. For further information refer to Note 3 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.





187  




OPERATIONAL RISKS

Fifth Third is exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial of service, hacking, and identity theft, which could result in the
disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information.

Fifth Third relies heavily on communications and information
systems to conduct its business. This includes the use of networks, the internet, digital applications, and the telecommunications and computer systems of third parties to perform business activities. Additionally, digital and mobile technologies
are leveraged to interact with customers, which increases the risk of information security breaches. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in disruptions to Fifth Third’s accounting, deposit, loan and
other systems, and adversely affect its customer relationships. While Fifth Third has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security
breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently remediated.

There have been increasing efforts
on the part of third parties, including through cyber-attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been several recent instances involving financial services, credit bureaus, and
consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data, by both private individuals and foreign governments. Specifically, the recent Equifax breach included the
compromise of millions of consumer records, some of which were Fifth Third customers. In addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may
originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, Fifth Third may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Furthermore, there has been a well-publicized series of apparently
related distributed denial of service attacks on large financial services companies, including Fifth Third Bank, and “ransom” attacks where hackers have requested payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information.

Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and Fifth Third may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. These risks
are heightened through the increasing use of digital and mobile solutions which allow for rapid money movement and increase the difficulty to detect and prevent fraudulent transactions. Fifth Third may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize
these risks or in the investigation of such cyber-attacks or related to the protection of the Bancorp’s customers from identity theft as a result of such attacks. Fifth Third may also be required to incur significant costs in connection with
any regulatory investigation or civil litigation resulting from a cyber-attack. Despite its efforts, the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of Fifth Third’s systems or third-party service providers (or providers to such
third-party service providers), particularly if widespread or resulting in financial losses to customers, could also seriously damage Fifth Third’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in substantial remediation costs,
additional cyber-security protection costs and increased insurance premiums, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and financial liability.

Fifth Third relies on its systems and certain third party service providers, and certain failures could materially adversely affect
operations.

Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and
telecommunications networks operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. Fifth Third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as

well as a business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be inoperable. Fifth Third also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. In addition, Fifth Third requires its
third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, Fifth Third cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. A security breach in the systems and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related
information could result in significant reputational harm and the loss of customers’ confidence in Fifth Third. As a result, we may lose existing and new customers and incur significant costs, including privacy monitoring activities.

Fifth Third’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume poses the risk
that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be difficult to detect. Fifth Third may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are
beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages).





188  Fifth Third Bancorp




Any failures or disruptions of the Bancorp’s systems or operations could
give rise to losses in service to customers and clients, adversely affect the Bancorp’s business and results of operations by subjecting the Bancorp to losses or liability, or require the Bancorp to expend significant resources to correct the
failure or disruption, as well as by exposing the Bancorp to reputational harm, litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance. The Bancorp could also be adversely affected if it loses access to information or services
from a third party service provider as a result of a security breach or system or operational failure or disruption affecting the third party service provider.

Fifth Third may not be able to effectively manage organizational changes and implement key initiatives in a timely fashion, or at all,
due to competing priorities which could adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation.

Fifth Third is subject to rapid changes in technology, regulation, and product innovation, and faces intense competition for customers,
sources of revenue, capital, services, qualified employees, and other essential business resources. In order to meet these challenges, Fifth Third is or may be engaged in numerous critical strategic initiatives at the same time. Accomplishing these
initiatives may be complex, time intensive and require significant financial, technological, management and other resources. These initiatives may consume management’s attention and may compete for limited resources. In addition, organizational
changes may need to be implemented throughout Fifth Third as a result of the new products, services, partnerships and processes that arise from the execution of the various strategic initiatives. Fifth Third may have difficulty managing these
organizational changes and executing these initiatives effectively in a timely fashion, or at all. Fifth Third’s failure to do so could expose it to litigation or regulatory action and may damage Fifth Third’s business, results of
operations, financial condition and reputation.

Fifth Third may not be able to successfully implement future information
technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect Fifth Third’s business operations and profitability.

Fifth
Third invests significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. Fifth Third may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements,
or may not be able to do so on a cost-effective basis, which could adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from
regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and result in reputational harm and have other negative effects. In addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies,
which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations. Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact Fifth
Third’s financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, Fifth Third may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and
amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time.

Fifth Third’s framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating its
risk and loss.

Fifth Third’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. Fifth Third has established
processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, legal risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, reputational risk, and
operational risk related to its employees, systems and vendors, among others. Any system of control and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable,
not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. A failure in Fifth Third’s internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on its earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and
investors may have of Fifth Third. Fifth Third continues to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving its controls and ensuring compliance with complex regulations.

Additionally, instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market
compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. As a result, Fifth Third may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or
against particular types of risk. If Fifth Third’s risk management framework proves ineffective, Fifth Third could incur litigation, negative regulatory consequences, reputational damages among other adverse consequences and Fifth Third could
suffer unexpected losses that may affect its financial condition or results of operations.

Fifth Third may experience losses
related to fraud, theft or violence.

Fifth Third may experience losses incurred due to customer or employee fraud, theft or
physical violence. Additionally, physical violence may negatively affect Fifth Third’s key personnel, facilities or systems. These losses may be material and negatively affect Fifth Third’s results of operations, financial condition or
prospects. These losses could also lead to significant reputational risks and other effects. The sophistication of external fraud actors increases and in some cases includes large criminal rings, which increases the resources and infrastructure
needed to thwart these attacks. The industry fraud threat continues to evolve, including but not limited to card fraud, check fraud, social engineering and phishing attacks for identity theft and account takeover. Fifth Third continues to invest in
fraud prevention in the forms of people and systems designed to prevent, detect and mitigate the customer and financial impacts.

Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel.

Fifth Third’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates
in the activities and markets that Fifth Third serves is intense, which may increase Fifth Third’s expenses and may result in Fifth Third not being able to hire candidates or retain them. If Fifth Third is not able to hire qualified candidates
or retain its key personnel, Fifth Third may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial condition.

Compensation paid by financial institutions such as Fifth Third has become increasingly regulated, particularly under the
DFA, which regulation affects the amount and form of compensation Fifth Third pays to hire and retain talented employees.





189  




If Fifth Third is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain
employees become more expensive, Fifth Third’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.

REGULATORY COMPLIANCE RISKS

Fifth Third is subject to extensive governmental regulation which could adversely impact Fifth Third or the businesses in which Fifth
Third is engaged.

Government regulation and legislation subject Fifth Third and other financial institutions to restrictions,
oversight and/or costs that may have an impact on Fifth Third’s business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of its common stock.

Fifth Third is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects
of its operations and limit the businesses in which Fifth Third may engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers and depositors and are not designed to protect
security-holders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact Fifth Third or its ability to increase the value of its business. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or
significant litigation against Fifth Third could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. Future changes in the laws, including tax laws,
or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse to Fifth Third and its shareholders or may require Fifth Third to expend significant time and resources to comply with such requirements.

Although there is uncertainty regarding whether the programs implemented and the legislation passed following the financial
crisis will remain in place or be modified or repealed under the new administration in the U.S., any new proposals for legislation and regulations introduced could further substantially increase compliance costs in the financial services industry.
In addition, changes to laws and regulations could have a negative impact in the short term even if the longer-term impact of those changes may be expected to be positive for Fifth Third. Fifth Third cannot predict whether any pending or future
legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on Fifth Third. Changes in regulation could affect Fifth Third in a substantial way and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results
of operations. Additionally, legislation or regulatory reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that Fifth Third deals with in the course of business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. The extent to which Fifth
Third can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known at this time.

In addition, changes in
laws or regulations that affect Fifth Third’s customers and business partners could negatively affect Fifth Third’s revenues and expenses. Certain changes in laws such as recent tax law reforms that impose limitations on the deductibility
of interest may decrease the demand for Fifth Third’s products or services and could negatively affect its revenues and results of operations. Other changes in laws or regulations could cause Fifth Third’s third party service providers and
other vendors to increase the prices they charge to Fifth Third and negatively affect Fifth Third’s expenses and financial results.

Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its operations
and potential growth.

Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository
institutions and their holding companies, the FRB, the FDIC, the CFPB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions by Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary, Fifth Third Bank. Fifth Third
and its banking subsidiary are subject to such supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate decisions. There can be no assurance that such
approvals, if required, would be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair Fifth Third’s operations, restrict its growth and/or affect its
dividend policy. Such actions and activities subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its banking subsidiary, entering into a merger or acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing
new branches, and entering into certain new businesses.

Failure by the Bancorp or Fifth Third Bank to meet the
applicable eligibility requirements for FHC status (including capital and management requirements and that Fifth Third Bank maintain at least a “Satisfactory” CRA rating) may result in restrictions on certain activities of the Bancorp,
including the commencement of new activities and mergers with or acquisitions of other financial institutions, and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status.

Fifth Third and other financial institutions are subject to scrutiny from government authorities, including bank regulatory
authorities, stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, capital levels, asset quality, provisioning, AML/BSA, consumer compliance and other prudential matters and efforts to ensure that financial
institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises.

In this regard, government
authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies and law enforcement, are also pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with
actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith. The government
enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking
organizations and institution-affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices.

In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit
a financial institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third’s regular examination process, Fifth Third’s and its banking subsidiary’s respective regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under various restrictions as
a prudential matter. Such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could negatively affect Fifth Third’s ability to engage in new activities and certain transactions, as well as have a material adverse effect on
Fifth Third’s business and results of operations and may not be publicly disclosed.





190  Fifth Third Bancorp




Fifth Third could face serious negative consequences if its third party service
providers, business partners or investments fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations.

Fifth Third is expected to
oversee the legal and regulatory compliance of its business endeavors, including those performed by third party service providers, business partners, other vendors and certain companies in which Fifth Third has invested. Legal authorities and
regulators could hold Fifth Third responsible for failures by these parties to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. These failures could expose Fifth Third to significant litigation or regulatory action that could limit its activities
or impose significant fines or other financial losses. Additionally, Fifth Third could be subject to significant litigation from consumers or other parties harmed by these failures and could suffer significant losses of business and revenue, as well
as reputational harm as a result of these failures.

As a regulated entity, the Bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements
that may limit its operations and potential growth.

As a BHC and an FHC, the Bancorp is subject to the comprehensive,
consolidated supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The Bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the
FRB which can change depending upon general economic conditions and the Bancorp’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the
intensive use of capital and could adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels.

U.S. federal banking agencies’ capital rules implementing Basel III became effective for the Bancorp on January 1,
2015, subject tophase-inperiods for certain components and other provisions. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity could limit Fifth Third’s business
activities, including lending, and the ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. Moreover, although the capital requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. federal banking agencies take into account expectations regarding
the ability of banks to meet the capital requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases.

Failure by the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary to meet applicable capital requirements could subject the Bank to a variety
of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit
insurance by the FDIC.

Fifth Third’s ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its capital
stock is restricted.

Fifth Third’s ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to regulatory requirements and
the need to meet regulatory expectations. As part of CCAR, Fifth Third’s capital plan is subject to an annual assessment by the FRB, and the FRB may object to Fifth Third’s capital plan if Fifth Third does not demonstrate an ability to
maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon. If the FRB objects to Fifth Third’s capital plan, Fifth Third would be subject to limitations on
its ability to make capital distributions (including paying dividends and repurchasing stock).

Regulation of Fifth Third by the CFTC imposes additional operational and compliance
costs.

We may become subject to more stringent regulatory requirements and activity restrictions if
the FRB and FDIC determine that Fifth Third’s resolution plan is not credible.

The DFA and implementing regulations jointly
issued by the FRB and FDIC require bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets to annually submit a resolution plan to the FRB and the FDIC that, in the event of material financial distress or failure, establish the rapid,
orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine that Fifth Third’s resolution plan is not “credible,” Fifth Third could become subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity
requirements or restrictions, or restrictions on Fifth Third’s growth, activities or operations, and could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations in ways that could negatively impact its operations and strategy.

Deposit insurance premiums levied against Fifth Third Bank may increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of
resolving failed banks increases.

The FDIC maintains a DIF to protect insured depositors in the event of bank failures. The DIF
is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions including Fifth Third Bank. Future deposit premiums paid by Fifth Third Bank depend on FDIC rules, which are subject to change, the level of the DIF and the magnitude and cost of future
bank failures. Fifth Third Bank may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums if market developments change such that the DIF balance is reduced or the FDIC changes its rules to require higher premiums.





191  




If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important bank holding company ornon-bankfinancial company were triggered, Fifth Third could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund.

The DFA created authority for the orderly liquidation of systemically important bank holding companies andnon-bankfinancial companies and is based on the FDIC’s bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of
the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon atwo-thirdsvote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund
established under the DFA, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk-based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have
received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Fifth Third. Any such assessments may adversely affect
Fifth Third’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

MARKET RISKS

Interest rates on our outstanding financial instruments might be subject to change based on regulatory developments, which could
adversely affect our revenue, expenses, and the value of those financial instruments.

LIBOR and certain other
“benchmarks” are the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. These reforms may cause such benchmarks to perform differently than in the past or have other consequences which cannot
be predicted. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, publicly announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. It is unclear whether, at
that time, LIBOR will cease to exist or if new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established. If LIBOR ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating LIBOR change from current methods for any reason, interest rates on our floating rate
obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to LIBOR rates, as well as the revenue and expenses associated with those financial instruments, may be adversely affected. Further, any uncertainty regarding the
continued use and reliability of LIBOR as a benchmark interest rate could adversely affect the value of our floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to LIBOR rates.

Weakness in the U.S. economy, including within Fifth Third’s geographic footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third in the past
and may adversely affect Fifth Third in the future.

If the strength of the U.S. economy in general or the strength of the local
economies in which Fifth Third conducts operations declines, this could result in, among other things, a decreased demand for Fifth Third’s products and services, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a
resultant effect on Fifth Third’s loan portfolio and ALLL and in the receipt of lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. These factors could result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses in
future periods, which could materially adversely affect Fifth Third’s financial condition and results of operations.

Global political and economic uncertainties and changes may adversely affect Fifth Third.

Global financial markets, including the United States, face political and economic uncertainties that may delay investment and
hamper economic activity. International events such as separatist movements, leadership changes and political and military conflicts could adversely affect global financial activity and markets and could negatively affect the U.S. economy.
Additionally, the Federal Reserve and other major central banks have begun the process of removing or reducing monetary accommodation, increasing the risk of recession and may also negatively impact asset values and credit spreads that were impacted
by extraordinary monetary stimulus. These potential negative effects on financial markets and economic activity could lead to reduced revenues, increased costs, increased credit risks, and volatile markets and could negatively impact Fifth
Third’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition.

Changes in interest rates could affect Fifth Third’s
income and cash flows.

Fifth Third’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest
rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Fifth
Third’s control, including general economic conditions in the U.S. or abroad and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will
influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding as well as
customers’ ability to repay loans. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth Third does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Fluctuations in these areas
may adversely affect Fifth Third, its customers and its shareholders.

Changes and trends in the capital markets may affect Fifth
Third’s income and cash flows.

Fifth Third enters into and maintains trading and investment positions in the capital markets
on its own behalf and manages investment positions on behalf of its customers. These investment positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and profits Fifth Third derives from managing proprietary and customer trading and
investment positions are dependent on market prices. Market changes and trends may result in a decline in wealth and asset management revenue or investment or trading losses that may impact Fifth Third. Losses on behalf of its customers could expose
Fifth Third to litigation, credit risks or loss of revenue from those clients and customers. Additionally, losses in Fifth Third’s trading and investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely affect
Fifth Third’s income, cash flows and funding costs.





192  Fifth Third Bancorp




Fifth Third’s stock price is volatile.

Fifth Third’s stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the
future. These factors include, without limitation:

●Actual or anticipated variations in earnings;

●Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;

●Fifth Third’s announcements of developments related to its businesses;

●Operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;

●Actions by government regulators and changes in the regulatory regime;

●New technology used or services offered by traditional andnon-traditionalcompetitors;

●News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry;

●U.S. and global economic conditions;

●Natural disasters;

●Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism, military conflicts and withdrawal from the EU
by the U.K. or other EU members.

The price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock may
fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to Fifth Third’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of Fifth Third’s
common stock, and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of future market prices.

Fifth Third’s
mortgage banking net revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter.

Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for
originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, revenue from MSRs can increase through
increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a “natural hedge,”
the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to
the new loans would accrue over time. It is also possible that even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the
lower rates.

Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate
risk. Fifth Third generally does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third attempts to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant
monitoring. Fifth Third may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. Fifth Third could incur significant losses from its hedging activities.
There may be periods where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.



LEGAL RISKS

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, investigations and
litigation, regulatory or other enforcement proceedings by various governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences.

Each
of the matters described above may result in material adverse consequences, including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third’s SEC
filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, responding to information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings,
regardless of the ultimate outcome of the matter, could be time-consuming and expensive.

Like other large financial
institutions and companies, Fifth Third is also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, includingnon-compliancewith policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information.
Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory or other enforcement action against Fifth Third could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to its
business. The outcome of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings may be difficult to predict or estimate. Although Fifth Third establishes accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters
indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, Fifth Third does not have accruals for all legal proceedings where it faces a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the
assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to Fifth Third from the legal proceedings in question.





193  




Thus, Fifth Third’s ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies, which could adversely affect Fifth Third’s
results of operations.

In addition, there has been a trend of public settlements with governmental agencies that may
adversely affect other financial institutions, to the extent such settlements are used as a template for future settlements. The uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to
substantial disparities between legal reserves and actual settlements or penalties.

Please see “Legal and
Regulatory Proceedings” in Fifth Third’s Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on specific legal and regulatory proceedings.

Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in
contractual representations and warranties.

Fifth Third sells residential mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs and
other financial institutions that purchase residential mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or
reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a specified period (usually 60 days or less) after Fifth
Third receives notice of the breach. Contracts for residential mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. If economic conditions and
the housing market deteriorate or future investor repurchase demand and Fifth Third’s success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, Fifth Third could have increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on
repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase reserve.

STRATEGIC RISKS

If Fifth Third does not respond to intense competition and rapid changes in the financial services industry or otherwise adapt to
changing customer preferences, its financial performance may suffer.

Fifth Third’s ability to deliver strong financial
performance and returns on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of competing against other
banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, Fifth Third’s competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and specialty finance, telecommunications, technology and
insurance companies as well as large retailers who seek to offerone-stopfinancial services in addition to other products and services desired by consumers that may include services that banks have not been
able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. Many of these other firms may be significantly larger than Fifth Third and may have access to customers, and financial resources that are
beyond Fifth Third’s capability. Fifth Third competes with these firms with respect to capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price.

This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in
regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Rapidly changing technology and consumer preferences may require Fifth Third to effectively
implement new technology-driven products and services in order to compete and meet customer demands. Fifth Third may not be able to do so or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. As a result, Fifth Third’s
ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and its business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected.

Fifth Third may make strategic investments and may expand an existing line of business or enter into new lines of business
to remain competitive. If Fifth Third’s chosen strategies, for example, the NorthStar Strategy initiatives, are not appropriate to effectively compete or Fifth Third does not execute them in an appropriate or timely manner, Fifth Third’s
business and results may suffer. Additionally, these strategies, products and lines of business may bring with them unforeseeable or unforeseen risks and may not generate the expected results or returns, which could adversely affect Fifth
Third’s results of operations or future growth prospects and cause Fifth Third to fail to meet its stated goals and expectations.

Changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer behavior may adversely impact Fifth Third’s investments in its bank
premises and equipment and other assets and may lead to increased expenditures to change its retail distribution channel.

Fifth
Third has significant investments in bank premises and equipment for its branch network including its 1,194 full-service banking centers, 50 parcels of land held for the development of future banking centers and 8 properties that are developed or in
the process of being developed as branches, as well as its retail work force and other branch banking assets. Advances in technology such ase-commerce,telephone, internet and mobile banking, andin-branchself-service technologies including automatic teller machines and other equipment, as well as changing customer preferences for these other methods of accessing Fifth Third’s products and services,
could affect the value of Fifth Third’s branch network or other retail distribution assets and may cause it to change its retail distribution strategy, close and/or sell certain branches or parcels of land held for development and restructure
or reduce its remaining branches and work force. Further advances in technology and/or changes in customer preferences could have additional changes in Fifth Third’s retail distribution strategy and/or branch network. These actions could lead
to losses on these assets or could adversely impact the carrying value of other long-lived assets and may lead to increased expenditures to renovate and reconfigure remaining branches or to otherwise reform its retail distribution channel.

Difficulties in identifying suitable opportunities or combining the operations of acquired entities or assets with Fifth Third’s
own operations or assessing the effectiveness of businesses in which we make strategic investments or with which we enter into strategic contractual relationships may prevent Fifth Third from achieving the expected benefits from these acquisitions,
investments or relationships.

Inherent uncertainties exist when assessing or integrating the operations of an acquired business
or investment or relationship opportunity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an acquisition or strategic relationship.





194  Fifth Third Bancorp




In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth Third and its potential acquisition and investment targets operate are highly competitive. Acquisition or investment targets may lose
customers or otherwise perform poorly or unprofitably, in the case of an acquired business or strategic relationship, cause Fifth Third to lose customers or perform poorly or unprofitably. Future acquisition and integration activities and efforts to
monitor new investments or reap the benefits of a new strategic relationship may require Fifth Third to devote substantial time and resources and may cause these acquisitions, investments and relationships to be unprofitable or cause Fifth Third to
be unable to pursue other business opportunities.

After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain items
were not accounted for properly in accordance with financial accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity or assets.
For example, Fifth Third could experience higher charge-offs than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio. Additionally, acquired companies or businesses may increase Fifth Third’s risk of regulatory action or restrictions
related to the operations of the acquired business.

Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders’ ownership of Fifth
Third and may cause Fifth Third to become more susceptible to adverse economic events.

Future business acquisitions could be
material to Fifth Third and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use substantial cash or other liquid
assets or to incur debt. In those events, Fifth Third could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.

Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its businesses or investments. Should it determine to sell such a business or
investment, it may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in shareholders’ equity commensurate with desirable levels. Moreover, if Fifth Third sold such businesses or investments, the loss of income could have an adverse
effect on its earnings and future growth.

Fifth Third owns, or owns a minority stake in, as applicable, severalnon-strategicbusinesses, investments and other assets that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial services businesses or, in the future, may no longer be aligned with Fifth Third’s strategic
plans or regulatory expectations. Further, Fifth Third is expected to conform to the final Volcker Rule with respect to certain illiquid funds within an extended compliance period. Fifth Third has, from time to time, considered and undertaken (and,
in the case of Vantiv, has announced its intention to continue) the sale of such businesses, investments and/or interests, including, for example, portions of Fifth Third’s stake in Vantiv Holding, LLC and certain illiquid funds that do not
conform to the Volcker Rule. In any such sales, Fifth Third would be subject to market forces that may affect the timing, pricing or result in an unsuccessful sale. If Fifth Third were to complete the sale of any of its businesses, investments
and/or interests in third parties, it would lose the income from the sold businesses and/or interests, including those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on its future earnings
and growth. Additionally, Fifth Third may encounter difficulties in separating

the operations of any businesses it sells, which may affect its business or results of operations.

The results of Vantiv Holding, LLC could have a negative impact on Fifth Third’s operating results and financial condition.

In 2009, Fifth Third sold an approximate 51% interest in its processing business, Vantiv Holding, LLC (formerly Fifth Third
Processing Solutions). As a result of additional share sales completed by Fifth Third between 2013 and 2017, the Bancorp ownership share in Vantiv Holding, LLC as of December 31, 2017, was approximately 8.6% (which was reduced further to
approximately 4.9% after the closing of Vantiv’s acquisition of Worldpay Group plc.). The Bancorp’s investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC is currently accounted for under the equity method of accounting and is not consolidated based on the
nature of Vantiv Holding, LLC’s structure as a limited liability company and contractual arrangements between Vantiv Holding, LLC and Fifth Third. Vantiv Holding, LLC’s operating results could be poor and could negatively affect the
operating results of Fifth Third. Also, Fifth Third participates in a multi-lender credit facility to Vantiv Holding, LLC and repayment of these loans is contingent on the future cash flows of Vantiv Holding, LLC, which are subject to their own
risks and uncertainties. Additionally, Fifth Third’s contractual arrangements with Vantiv Holding, LLC are subject to further unique risks and uncertainties.

Changes in Fifth Third’s ownership in Vantiv Holding, LLC could have an impact on Fifth Third’s stock price, operating
results, financial condition, and future outlook.

Fifth Third expects that it will reduce its equity investments in Vantiv
Holding, LLC and its publicly traded parent, Worldpay, Inc. (formerly, Vantiv, Inc.), in whole or in part, but there can be no assurance that such sales will occur or as to when they will occur or the value that might be received by Fifth Third. A
reduction in Fifth Third’s Vantiv ownership interest may result from a series of sale transactions similar to transactions in Vantiv securities engaged in by Fifth Third to date, or could occur as a result of one or more larger transactions,
depending on strategic considerations, market conditions, or other factors deemed important by Fifth Third. Additionally, Fifth Third’s ownership in Vantiv could be affected by additional transactions that Vantiv may undertake. The nature,
terms, and timing of transactions engaged in by Vantiv may not be entirely within Fifth Third’s control, if at all. If and when Fifth Third’s ownership in Vantiv is reduced, such changes in ownership could have a material impact, positive
or negative, on Fifth Third’s stock price, operating results, financial condition and future outlook.

GENERAL BUSINESS RISKS

Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could impact Fifth Third’s reported earnings and financial condition.

The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial
accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Fifth Third’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third records and reports its financial condition and
results of operations. In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the recasting of Fifth Third’s prior period financial statements.





195  




Fifth Third uses models for business planning purposes that may not adequately predict
future results.

Fifth Third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various purposes including its capital and liquidity
needs and other purposes. The models used may not accurately account for all variables and may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or understate certain effects. As a result of these potential failures, Fifth Third may not
adequately prepare for future events and may suffer losses or other setbacks due to these failures.

Also, information
Fifth Third provides to the public or to its regulators based on models could be inaccurate or misleading due to inadequate design or implementation, for example. Decisions that its regulators make, including those related to capital distributions
to its shareholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the models used to generate the relevant information are unreliable or inadequate.

The preparation of financial statements requires Fifth Third to make subjective determinations and use estimates that may vary from
actual results and materially impact its results of operations or financial position.

The preparation of consolidated financial
statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. If new information arises that results in a material change to a reserve amount, such a change could result in a change
to previously announced financial results. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section of MD&A for more information regarding management’s significant estimates.

Weather related events or other natural disasters may have an effect on the performance of Fifth Third’s loan portfolios,
especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting its results of operations.

Fifth Third’s footprint stretches
from the upper Midwestern to lower Southeastern regions of the United States. These regions have experienced weather events including hurricanes and other natural disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of global climate
change upon their frequency and severity cannot be predicted. If large scale events occur, they may significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as well as impairing its borrowers’ ability to repay their
loans.

Fifth Third is exposed to reputational risk.

Fifth Third’s actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as certain sales and lending practices, data security, corporate governance
and acquisitions, behavior of employees, association with particular customers, business partners, investment or vendors, as well as developments from any of the other risks described above, may result in negative public opinion and may damage Fifth
Third’s reputation. Actions taken by government regulators, shareholder activists and community organizations may also damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Additionally, whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news
coverage in traditional media, the advent and expansion of social media facilitates the rapid dissemination of information. Though Fifth Third monitors social media channels, the potential remains for rapid and widespread dissemination of
inaccurate, misleading or false information that could damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Negative public opinion can adversely affect Fifth

Third’s ability to attract and keep customers and can increase the risk that it will be a target of litigation and regulatory action.





196  Fifth Third Bancorp




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Bancorp’s executive offices and the main office of Fifth Third Bank are located on Fountain Square Plaza in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio
in a32-storyoffice tower, a five-story office building with an attached parking garage and a separateten-storyoffice building known as the Fifth Third Center, the
William S. Rowe Building and the 530 Building, respectively. The Bancorp’s main operations campus is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, and is comprised of a three-story building with an attached parking garage known as the George A. Schaefer, Jr.
Operations Center, and atwo-storybuilding with surface parking known as the Madisonville Office Building. The Bank owns 100% of these buildings.

At December 31, 2017, the Bancorp, through its banking andnon-bankingsubsidiaries, operated 1,154 banking centers, of which 835 were owned, 221 were leased and 98 for which the buildings are owned but the land is leased. The banking centers are located in the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois,
Florida, Tennessee, West Virginia, Georgia and North Carolina. The Bancorp’s significant owned properties are owned free from mortgages and major encumbrances.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP

Officers
are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the meeting of Directors immediately following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The names, ages and positions of the Executive Officers of the Bancorp as of February 28, 2018 are listed
below along with their business experience during the past five years:

Greg D. Carmichael, 56. Chairman of the Board since February
2018, Chief Executive Officer of the Bancorp since November 2015 and President since September 2012. Previously, Mr. Carmichael was Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp from June 2006 to August 2015, Executive Vice President of the Bancorp
from June 2006 to September 2012 and Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp from June 2003 to June 2006.

Lars C. Anderson, 56.
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp since August 2015. Previously, Mr. Anderson was Vice Chairman of Comerica Incorporated and Comerica Bank since December 2010.

Frank R. Forrest, 63. Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Bancorp since April 2014. Previously, Mr. Forrest was
Executive Vice President and Chief Risk and Credit Officer of the Bancorp since September 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Forrest served with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. From March 2012 until June 2013, Mr. Forrest served as Managing Director
and Quality Control Executive for Legacy Asset Services, a division of Bank of America. From September 2008 until March 2012, Mr. Forrest was Managing Director and Global Debt Products Executive for Global Corporate and Investment Banking.
Formerly from January 2007 to September 2008, Mr. Forrest was Risk Management Executive for Commercial Banking.

Mark D. Hazel,
52. Senior Vice President and Controller of the Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hazel was the Assistant Bancorp Controller since 2006 and was the Controller of Nonbank entities since 2003.

Aravind Immaneni, 47. Executive Vice President and Chief Operations and Technology Officer since November 2016. Previously
Mr. Immaneni worked for TD Bank as Executive Vice

President and Head of Retail Distribution Strategy & Operations since November 2014, Senior Vice President and Head of Retail Bank Operations from August 2013 to November 2014, and
Senior Vice President and Head of Deposit & Debit Operations from February 2011 to August 2013.

James C. Leonard, 48.
Executive Vice President since September 2015 and Treasurer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously, Mr. Leonard was Senior Vice President from October 2013 to September 2015, the Director of Business Planning and Analysis from 2006 to
2013 and the Chief Financial Officer of the Commercial Banking Division from 2001 to 2006.

Philip R. McHugh, 53. Executive Vice
President of the Bancorp since December 2014. Previously, Mr. McHugh was Executive Vice President of Fifth Third Bank since June 2011 and was Senior Vice President of Fifth Third Bank from June 2010 through June 2011. Prior to that,
Mr. McHugh was the President and CEO of the Louisville Affiliate of Fifth Third Bank from January 2005 through June 2010.

Jelena
McWilliams, 44. Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary since January 2017. Previously Ms. McWilliams was Chief Counsel since January 2015 and Deputy Staff Director since July 2016 of the U.S. Senate Committee
on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. Previously she was Senior Counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs from July 2012 to December 2015. Prior to that, she served as Assistant Chief Counsel to the U.S. Senate
Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee and before that as an attorney at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. Prior to government service, she practiced as an attorney with Morrison & Foerster LLP in Palo Alto, California and then
with Hogan & Hartson LLP (now Hogan Lovells LLP) in Washington, D.C.

Timothy N. Spence, 39. Executive Vice President and
Head of Payments, Strategy and Digital Solutions since 2017, Chief Strategy Officer of the Bancorp since September 2015. Previously, Mr. Spence was a senior partner in the Financial Services practice at Oliver Wyman since 2006, a global
strategy and risk management consulting firm.

Teresa J. Tanner, 49. Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since
September 2015. Previously, Ms. Tanner was the Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010 and Senior Vice President and Director of Enterprise Learning since September 2008. Prior to that, she
was Human Resources Senior Vice President and Senior Business Partner for the Information Technology and Central Operations divisions since July 2006. Previously, she was Vice President and Senior Business Partner for Operations since September
2004.

Tayfun Tuzun, 53. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously,
Mr. Tuzun was the Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bancorp from December 2011 to October 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Tuzun was the Assistant Treasurer and Balance Sheet Manager of Fifth Third Bancorp. Previously, Mr. Tuzun was
the Structured Finance Manager since 2007.





197  




PART II

ITEM  5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The Bancorp’s common stock is traded in theover-the-countermarket and is listed under the symbol “FITB” on the NASDAQ®Global Select Market
System.



High and Low Stock Prices and Dividends Paid Per Share2017HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$31.83$27.38$0.16Third Quarter$28.06$24.66$0.16Second Quarter$26.69$23.20$0.14First Quarter$28.97$24.02$0.142016HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$27.88$19.57$0.14Third Quarter$21.11$16.26$0.13Second Quarter$19.34$16.02$0.13First Quarter$19.73$13.84$0.13

See a discussion of dividend limitations that the subsidiaries can pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 3 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, the Bancorp had 40,387 shareholders of record.



Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPeriodTotal Numberof SharesPurchased(a)Average Price PaidPer ShareTotal Number of SharesPurchased as Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plans orProgramsMaximum Number ofShares that May Yet bePurchased Under the Plansor Programs(b)October 2017108,119$27.63-35,166,334November 201776,40327.87-35,166,334December 201712,124,85129.1712,018,44323,147,891Total12,309,373$29.1512,018,44323,147,891

(a)Includes 290,930 shares repurchased during the fourth quarter of 2017 in connection with various employee
compensation plans of the Bancorp. These purchases do not count against the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the Board of Directors’ authorization.

(b)In March 2016, the Bancorp announced that its Board of Directors had authorized management to purchase
100 million shares of the Bancorp’s common stock through the open market or in any private transactions. The authorization does not include specific price targets or an expiration date. This share repurchase authorization replaces the
Board’s previous authorization pursuant to which approximately 14 million shares remained available for repurchase by the Bancorp.

See further discussion on accelerated share repurchase transactions and stock-based compensation in Note 23 and Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.



198  Fifth Third Bancorp




The following performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material and should not be deemed filed or
incorporated by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Bancorp specifically incorporates the performance graphs by reference therein.

Total Return Analysis

The graphs below
summarize the cumulative return experienced by the Bancorp’s shareholders over the years 2012 through 2017, and 2007 through 2017, respectively, compared to the S&P 500 Stock and the S&P Banks indices.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP VS. MARKET INDICES













199  




PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item relating to the Executive Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under “EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.”

The information required by this item concerning Directors and the nomination process is
incorporated herein by reference under the caption “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning the Audit Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is incorporated
herein by reference under the captions “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is
incorporated herein by reference under the caption “SECTION 16 (a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS,”
“COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS,” “BOARD OF DIRECTOR COMPENSATION,” “CEO PAY RATIO,” “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT” and “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION” of the
Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and management is
incorporated herein by reference under the captions “CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,” “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS,” “BOARD OF DIRECTOR COMPENSATION,” and “COMPENSATION OF
NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The
information required by this item concerning Equity Compensation Plan information is included in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions “CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS”, “ELECTION
OF DIRECTORS”, “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the caption “PRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL AUDIT FIRM
FEES” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS,
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

PagesPublic Accounting Firm90-91Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements92-96Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements97-178

The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted because of the absence of conditions under
which they are required, or because the information is set forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.

The
following lists the Exhibits to the Annual Report on Form10-K.



2.1Master Investment Agreement (excluding
exhibits and schedules) dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as of June 30, 2009, among Fifth Third Bank, Fifth Third Financial Corporation, Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., FTPS Holding, LLC and Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

3.1Amended Articles of Incorporation
 of Fifth Third Bancorp, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2014.

3.2Code of Regulations of Fifth
 Third Bancorp, as Amended as of September 15, 2014. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled with the SEC on February 25, 2016.

4.1Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated
 as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.2Indenture, dated as of
 May 23, 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.3Global Security representing
 Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.4First Supplemental Indenture,
 dated as of December 20, 2006, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2006.

4.5First Supplemental Indenture dated
 as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Wilmington Trust Company. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2007.

4.6Global Security dated as of March 4,
2008 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled for the
quarter ended March 31, 2008. (1).





200  Fifth Third Bancorp




4.7Indenture for Senior Debt Securities
 dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.8First Supplemental Indenture dated
 as of January 25, 2011 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 25, 2011.

4.9Second Supplemental Indenture
 dated as of March 7, 2012 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Wilmington Trust Company.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2012.

4.10Global Security dated as
 of March 7, 2012 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-K/Afiled
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2012.

4.11Deposit Agreement dated
 as of May 16, 2013, between Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders
from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
May 16, 2013.

4.12Form of Certificate Representing
 the 5.10%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.13Form of Depositary Receipt
 for the 5.10%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by
reference as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.14Global Security dated as
 of November 20, 2013 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.30% Subordinated Notes due 2024. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 20, 2013. (2)

4.15Deposit Agreement dated
 December 9, 2013, between Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from
time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
December 9, 2013.

4.16Form of Certificate Representing
 the 6.625%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.17Form of Depositary Receipt
 for the 6.625%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated
by reference as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.18Deposit Agreement dated
 June 5, 2014, among Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time
to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
June 5, 2014.

4.19Form of Certificate Representing
 the 4.90%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.20Form of Depositary Receipt
 for the 4.90%Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePerpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by
reference as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.21Third Supplemental Indenture
 dated as of February 28, 2014 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on February 28, 2014.

4.22Global Security dated as
 of February 28, 2014, representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 in principal amount of its 2.30% Senior Notes due 2019. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on February 28, 2014.

4.23Fourth Supplemental Indenture
 dated as of July 27, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 27, 2015.

4.24Global Security dated as
of July 27, 2015, representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $1,100,000,000 in principal amount of its 2.875% Senior Notes due 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 27, 2015.

4.25Fifth Supplemental Indenture
 dated as of June 15, 2017 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the SEC on June 15, 2017.

4.26Form of 2.600% Senior Notes
 due 2022. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the SEC on June 15, 2017.

4.27Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of RegulationS-K.The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the SEC, upon request, copies of any such instruments.

10.1Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded
Deferred Compensation Plan forNon-EmployeeDirectors, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.2First Amendment to Fifth
 Third Bancorp Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan forNon-EmployeeDirectors, as Amended and Restated effective June 1, 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on August 8, 2017.*

10.3Second Amendment to  Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan forNon-EmployeeDirectors, as Amended and Restated effective June 1, 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 6, 2017.*

10.4Fifth Third Bancorp Master
Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.5First Amendment to Fifth
 Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.6Second Amendment to  Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2012.*

10.7Third Amendment to Fifth
 Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*





201  




10.8Fifth Third Bancorp 401(k)
Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.9First Amendment to Fifth
 Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled with the SEC on February 25, 2016.*

10.10Second Amendment to  401(k) Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated effective January 1, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the
Commission on August 8, 2017.*

10.11Third Amendment to Fifth
 Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated effective January 1, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the
Commission on November 6, 2017.*

10.12Fourth Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated
 effective January 1, 2015.*

10.13The Fifth Third Bancorp
 Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.**

10.14First Amendment to The
 Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled with the SEC on February 25,
2016.*

10.15Second Amendment to The
 Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled with the SEC on February 24,
2017.*

10.16Third Amendment to The Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated.*

10.17Fifth Third Bancorp Incentive
 Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex 2 to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated February 19, 2004.*

10.18Fifth Third Bancorp 2008 Incentive
 Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex 2 to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2008.*

10.19Fifth Third Bancorp 2011 Incentive
 Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex 1 to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated March 10, 2011.*

10.20Fifth Third Bancorp 2014
 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex A to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2014.*

10.21Fifth Third Bancorp 2017
 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex A to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated March 9, 2017.*

10.22Amended and Restated Fifth
 Third Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.23Fifth Third BancorpNon-qualifiedDeferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the
year ended December 31, 2013.*

10.24Amendment to the Fifth
 Third BancorpNon-qualifiedDeferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.25Second Amendment to the
Fifth Third BancorpNon-qualifiedDeferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated effective January 1, 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on August 8, 2017.*

10.26Third Amendment to Fifth
 Third BancorpNon-qualifiedDeferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated effective January 1, 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 6, 2017.*

10.27Fifth Third Bancorp Stock
Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex 5 to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated February 9, 2001.*

10.28Amendment No. 
1 to Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 26,
 2005. *

10.29Amended and Restated
 First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the year ended
December 31, 2003. *

10.30Fifth Third Bancorp Executive
Change in Control Severance Plan, effective January 1, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
November 21, 2014.*

10.31Second Amended 
& Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (excluding certain exhibits) dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, Vantiv Holding, LLC and each person who becomes a member after March 
21, 2012. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit C to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.32Amendment and Restatement Agreement
 and Reaffirmation (excluding certain schedules) dated as of June 30, 2009 among Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC, FTPS Holding, LLC, Card Management Company, LLC, Fifth Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.33Registration Rights Agreement
dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit E to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with
the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.34Exchange Agreement dated
 as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC and such other holders of Class B Units and Class CNon-VotingUnits that are from time
to time parties of the Exchange Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.35Recapitalization Agreement
 dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit D to the Registrant’s
Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.36Stock Appreciation Right
 Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.37Performance Share Award
 Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.38Restricted Stock Award
 Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.39Restricted Stock Award
 Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfor the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.40Stock Appreciation Right
Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.41Performance Share Award
 Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.42Restricted Stock Unit
 Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.36 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.43Restricted Stock Award
 Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.44Master Confirmation for
accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. acting as agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on August 7, 2013.**

10.45Master Confirmation,
 as supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated October 20, 2014 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 of the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.**





202  Fifth Third Bancorp




10.46Master Confirmation, as
supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated July 29, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 5, 2015.**

10.47Supplemental Confirmation
 dated September 3, 2015, to Master Confirmation, dated May 21, 2013, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. acting as agent.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 5, 2015.

10.48Separation Agreement between
Fifth Third Bancorp and Dan Poston dated October 2, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-K/Afiled with the Commission on October 6, 2015.

10.49Master Confirmation, as
 supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated April 27, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Barclays Bank PLC, through its agent Barclays Capital Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on August 5, 2015.**

10.50Offer letter from Fifth
 Third Bancorp to Lars C. Anderson. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 16, 2015**

10.51Master Confirmation, dated
 January 22, 2015, and Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated January 22, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on May 11, 2015.**

10.52Supplemental Confirmation
 dated December 9, 2015, to Master Confirmation dated January 22, 2015, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfiled with the SEC on February 25, 2016.**

10.53Supplemental Confirmation
 dated March 1, 2016, to Master Confirmation dated July 29, 2015, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on May 6, 2016**

10.54Supplemental Confirmation
 dated August 2, 2016, to Master Confirmation dated January 22, 2015, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 9, 2016**

10.55Bancorp Director Pay Program.
 Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 9, 2016*

10.56Supplemental Confirmation
 dated December 15, 2016, to Master Confirmation dated May 21, 2013, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.47 of the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.**

10.572016 Restricted Stock
 Unit Grant Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.48 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.*

10.582017 Stock Appreciation
 Right Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.49 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.*

10.592017 Performance Share
 Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.50 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.*

10.602017 Restricted Stock
 Unit Grant Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.*

10.61Long-Term Incentive Award
 Overview February 2017 Grants. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.52 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.*

10.62Supplemental Confirmation
 dated April 26, 2017, to Master Confirmation, dated May 21, 2013, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. acting as agent.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on August 8, 2017.**

10.63Restricted Stock Unit
 Agreement (for Directors) for Fifth Third Bancorp 2017 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission
on August 8, 2017.*

10.64Supplemental Confirmation
 dated August 15, 2017, to Master Confirmation, dated April 23, 2012, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Goldman, Sachs & Co. LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 6, 2017.**

10.65Supplemental Confirmation dated December 
15, 2017, to Master Confirmation, dated July 29, 2015, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC.**

10.66Supplemental Confirmation dated February 
8, 2018, to Master Confirmation, dated July 29, 2015, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC.**

10.672018 Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement (for Executive Officers).*

10.682018 Performance Share Award Agreement.*

10.692018 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (for Executive Officers.) *

10.70Long-Term Incentive Award Overview 2018 Grants.*

12.1Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

12.2Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred
 Stock Dividend Requirements.

21Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2017.

23Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-Deloitte 
& Touche LLP.

31(i)Certification Pursuant to Section 
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.

31(ii)Certification Pursuant to Section 
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer.

32(i)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 
1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.

32(ii)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 
1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer.

99.1Consent Order pursuant
 to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, dated September 28, 2015, between Fifth Third Bank and the U.S. Department of Justice regarding indirect auto loans. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s Current
Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on September 29, 2015.

99.2Consent Order pursuant
 to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, dated September 28, 2015, between Fifth Third Bank and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, including the Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order, dated
September 28, 2015, by Fifth Third Bank regarding indirect auto loans. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on
September 29, 2015.

99.3Consent Order pursuant
 to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, dated September 28, 2015, between Fifth Third Bank and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, including the Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order, dated
September 28, 2015, by Fifth Third Bank regarding credit cardadd-onproducts. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on September 29, 2015.

99.4Settlement Agreement entered
into on September 30, 2015, between the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and Fifth Third Bancorp and its subsidiaries. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on October 7, 2015.





203  




99.5Stipulation and Order of
 Settlement and Dismissal entered into on September 30, 2015, by and among plaintiff the United States of America and on behalf of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Federal Housing Administration and  and its subsidiaries (excluding exhibits). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form8-Kfiled with the Commission on October 7, 2015.101Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of RegulationS-T:(i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity, (v) the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements tagged as blocks of text and in detail.(1)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on March 4, 2008 representing an additional
$500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038.(2)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on November 20, 2013 representing an
additional $250,000,000 in principal amount of its 4.30% Subordinated Notes due 2024.*    Denotes management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.**  An application for confidential treatment for selected portions of this exhibit has been
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.







204  Fifth Third Bancorp




SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.





FIFTH THIRD BANCORPRegistrant/s/ Greg D. CarmichaelGreg D. CarmichaelChairman, President and CEOPrincipal Executive OfficerFebruary 28, 2018Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed on
February 28, 2018 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated.OFFICERS:/s/ Greg D. CarmichaelGreg D. CarmichaelChairman, President and CEOPrincipal Executive Officer/s/ Tayfun TuzunTayfun TuzunExecutive Vice President and CFOPrincipal Financial Officer/s/ Mark D. HazelMark D. HazelSenior Vice President and ControllerPrincipal Accounting Officer

DIRECTORS:/s/ Marsha C. WilliamsMarsha C. WilliamsLead DirectorNicholas K. Akins/s/ B. Evan Bayh IIIB. Evan Bayh III/s/ Jorge L. BenitezJorge L. Benitez/s/ Katherine B. BlackburnKatherine B. Blackburn/s/ Emerson L. BrumbackEmerson L. Brumback/s/ Jerry W. BurrisJerry W. Burris/s/ Greg D. CarmichaelGreg D. Carmichael/s/ Gary R. HemingerGary R. Heminger/s/ Jewell D. HooverJewell D. Hoover/s/ Eileen A. MalleschEileen A. Mallesch/s/ Michael B. McCallisterMichael B. McCallister





205  




CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISON



AVERAGE ASSETS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS)Interest-Earning AssetsYearLoans andLeasesFederal FundsSold(a)Interest-BearingDeposits inBanks(a)SecuritiesTotalCash and Duefrom BanksOther AssetsTotal AverageAssets2017$92,73111,38932,172126,2932,22413,345140,636201694,32011,86530,099126,2852,30314,963142,266201593,33913,25726,987123,5842,60815,179140,078201491,127-3,04321,823115,9932,89214,505131,909201389,09312,41616,444107,9542,48215,025123,704201284,82221,49315,319101,6362,35515,643117,562201180,21412,03015,43797,6822,35215,259112,590201079,232113,31716,37198,9312,24514,758112,351200983,391121,02317,100101,5262,32914,179114,769200885,83543818313,42499,8802,49013,326114,211

AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS)DepositsYearDemandInterestCheckingSavingsMoneyMarketOther TimeCertificates$100,000 andOverForeignOffice andOtherTotalShort-TermBorrowingsTotal2017$35,09326,38213,95820,2313,7712,564665102,6643,715106,379201635,86225,14314,34619,5234,0102,735830102,4493,351105,800201535,16426,16014,95118,1524,0512,869874102,2212,641104,862201431,75525,38216,08014,6703,7623,9291,82897,4062,33199,737201329,92523,58218,4409,4673,7606,3391,51893,0313,52796,558201227,19623,09621,3934,9034,3063,1021,55585,5514,80690,357201123,38918,70721,6525,1546,2603,6563,49782,3153,12285,437201019,66918,21819,6124,80810,5266,0833,36182,2771,92684,203200916,86215,07016,8754,32014,10310,3672,26579,8626,98086,842200814,01714,19116,1926,12711,1359,5314,22075,41310,76086,173

INCOME (LOSS) FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Per Share(b)Originally ReportedYearInterestIncomeInterestExpenseNoninterestIncomeNoninterestExpenseNet Income (Loss)Available to CommonShareholdersEarningsDilutedEarningsDividendsDeclaredEarningsDilutedEarnings2017$4,4896913,2243,9902,1192.882.830.602.882.8320164,1935782,6963,9031,4891.951.930.531.951.9320154,0284953,0033,7751,6372.032.010.522.032.0120144,0304512,4733,7091,4141.681.660.511.681.6620133,9734123,2273,9611,7992.052.020.472.052.0220124,1075122,9994,0811,5411.691.660.361.691.6620114,2186612,4553,7581,0941.201.180.281.201.1820104,4898852,7293,8555030.630.630.040.630.6320094,6681,3144,7823,8265110.730.670.040.730.6720085,6082,0942,9464,564(2,180)(3.91)(3.91)0.75(3.94)(3.94)

MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Bancorp Shareholders’ EquityYearCommon SharesOutstandingCommonStockPreferredStockCapitalSurplusRetainedEarningsAccumulated OtherComprehensiveIncomeTreasuryStockTotalBook ValuePer ShareAllowance forLoan andLease Losses2017693,804,893$2,0511,3312,79015,12273(5,002)16,36521.671,1962016750,479,2992,0511,3312,75613,44159(3,433)16,20519.821,2532015785,080,3142,0511,3312,66612,358197(2,764)15,83918.481,2722014824,046,9522,0511,3312,64611,141429(1,972)15,62617.351,3222013855,305,7452,0511,0342,56110,15682(1,295)14,58915.851,5822012882,152,0572,0513982,7588,768375(634)13,71615.101,8542011919,804,4362,0513982,7927,554470(64)13,20113.922,2552010796,272,5221,7793,6541,7156,719314(130)14,05113.063,0042009795,068,1641,7793,6091,7436,326241(201)13,49712.443,7492008577,386,6121,2954,2418485,82498(229)12,07713.572,787

(a)Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in banks are combined in other short-term
investments in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)Adjusted for accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share, which was
adopted retroactively on January 1, 2009.



206  Fifth Third Bancorp




DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS



FIFTH THIRD BANCORP DIRECTORSGreg D. CarmichaelChairman, President & Chief
Executive OfficerFifth Third BancorpMarsha C.
Williams, Lead DirectorRetired Chief Financial OfficerOrbitz Worldwide, Inc.Nicholas K. AkinsChairman, President &Chief Executive OfficerAmerican Electric Power CompanyB. Evan Bayh IIIPartnerMcGuireWoods LLPJorge L. BenitezRetired Chief Executive OfficerNorth America of Accenture plcKatherine B. BlackburnExecutive Vice PresidentCincinnati Bengals, Inc.Emerson L. BrumbackRetired President &
Chief Operating OfficerM&T BankJerry W.
BurrisRetired President and Chief Executive OfficerAssociated Materials Group, Inc.Gary R. HemingerChief Executive Officer & ChairmanMarathon
Petroleum CorporationJewell D. HooverRetired Senior
OfficialComptroller of the CurrencyEileen A.
MalleschRetired Chief Financial OfficerNationwide
Property & Casualty Segment,Nationwide Mutual Insurance CompanyMichael B. McCallisterRetired Chairman & Chief
Executive OfficerHumana Inc.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP OFFICERSGreg D. CarmichaelChairman, President &Chief Executive OfficerLars C. AndersonExecutive Vice President &Chief Operating OfficerFrank R. ForrestExecutive Vice President &Chief Risk OfficerMark D. HazelSenior Vice President &ControllerAravind ImmaneniExecutive Vice President &Chief Operationsand Technology OfficerJames C. LeonardExecutive Vice President &TreasurerPhilip R. McHughExecutive Vice PresidentHead of Consumer BankJelena McWilliamsExecutive Vice President,Chief Legal Officer &Corporate SecretaryTimothy N. SpenceExecutive Vice President &Head of Payments, Strategy andDigital
SolutionsTeresa J. TannerExecutive Vice President
&Chief Administrative OfficerTayfun TuzunExecutive Vice President &Chief Financial
Officer

REGIONAL PRESIDENTSSteven Alonso(Group Regional President)Michael AshKevin HipskindDavid A. CallMichael McKayTimothy ElsbrockDavid GirodatThomas HeiksLee Fite(Market President)Joseph DiRoccoRandy KoporcRobert W. LaClairJordan A. Miller, Jr.Francie Henry(Market President)Eric SmithThomas G. Welch, Jr.FIFTH THIRD BANCORP BOARD COMMITTEESAudit CommitteeEmerson L. Brumback, ChairKatherine B. BlackburnJerry W. BurrisJewell D. HooverFinance CommitteeGary R. Heminger, ChairNicholas K. AkinsEmerson L. BrumbackJewell D. HooverMichael B. McCallisterMarsha C. WilliamsHuman Capital and Compensation CommitteeMichael B.
McCallister, ChairNicholas K. AkinsGary R. HemingerEileen A. MalleschNominating and Corporate Governance
CommitteeNicholas K. Akins, ChairB. Evan Bayh IIIJorge L. BenitezKatherine B. BlackburnGary R. HemingerMarsha C. WilliamsRisk and Compliance CommitteeJewell D. Hoover, ChairB. Evan Bayh IIIJorge L. BenitezJerry W. BurrisEileen A. Mallesch





207  

