ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The risks listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the Bancorp’s
financial condition, the results of its operations, or its business.

RISKS RELATING TO ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS

Weakness in the U.S. economy, including within Fifth Third’s geographic footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third in the past
and may adversely affect Fifth Third in the future.

If the strength of the U.S. economy in general or the strength of the local
economies in which Fifth Third conducts operations declines, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on Fifth Third’s loan portfolio and ALLL and
in the receipt of lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. These factors could result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses in future periods, which could materially adversely affect Fifth
Third’s financial condition and results of operations.

Global financial conditions could hamper economic recovery or
contribute to recessionary economic conditions and severe stress in the financial markets, including in the United States. Should the U.S. economic recovery be adversely impacted by these factors, the likelihood for loan and asset growth at U.S.
financial institutions, like Fifth Third, may deteriorate.

The global financial markets continue to be strained as a result of
economic slowdowns, geopolitical concerns and the related path of commodity prices and interest rates. Divergence in economic growth in the U.S. and international economies and the resulting differences in monetary policy are placing strains on
financial markets and strengthening the U.S. dollar. The relative strength of the U.S. dollar may continue to negatively impact the U.S. manufacturing sector. These factors could negatively impact the U.S. economy and affect the stability of global
financial markets.

Changes in interest rates could affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows.

Fifth Third’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning
assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Fifth Third’s control, including
general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of
loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth Third does not
effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third and its shareholders.

Changes and trends in the capital markets may affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows.

Fifth Third enters into and maintains trading and investment positions in the capital markets on its own behalf and manages investment
positions on behalf of its customers. These investment positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and profits Fifth Third derives from managing proprietary and customer trading and investment positions are dependent on market
prices. Market changes and trends may result in a decline in investment

advisory revenue or investment or trading losses that may impact Fifth Third. Losses on behalf of its customers could expose Fifth Third to litigation, credit risks or loss of revenue from those
clients and customers. Additionally, losses in Fifth Third’s trading and investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely affect cash flows and funding costs.

Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial markets generally
and have direct and indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third.

Fifth Third has exposure to counterparties in the financial services
industry and other industries, and routinely executes transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of Fifth Third’s
transactions with other financial institutions expose Fifth Third to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. In addition, Fifth Third’s credit risk may be affected when the collateral it holds cannot be realized or is
liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships
between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred
to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Bancorp interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely
affect Fifth Third.

Fifth Third’s stock price is volatile.

Fifth Third’s stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the
future. These factors include:

●

Actual or anticipated variations in earnings;

●

Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;

●

Fifth Third’s announcements of developments related to its businesses;

●

Operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;

●

Actions by government regulators;

●

New technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors;

●

News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry;

●

Natural disasters;

●

Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.

The price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to
Fifth Third’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock, and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of
future market prices.

26




Changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer behavior may adversely impact
Fifth Third’s investments in its bank premises and equipment and other assets and may lead to increased expenditures to change its retail distribution channel.

Fifth Third has significant investments in bank premises and equipment for its branch network including its 1,254 full-service banking
centers, 56 parcels of land held for the development of future banking centers, as well as its retail work force and other branch banking assets. Advances in technology such as e-commerce, telephone, internet and mobile banking, and in-branch
self-service technologies including automatic teller machines and other equipment, as well as changing customer preferences for these other methods of accessing Fifth Third’s products and services, could affect the value of Fifth Third’s
branch network or other retail distribution assets and may cause it to change its retail distribution strategy, close and/or sell certain branches or parcels of land held for development and restructure or reduce its remaining branches and work
force. Further advances in technology and/or changes in customer preferences could have additional changes in Fifth Third’s retail distribution strategy and/or branch network. These actions could lead to losses on these assets or could
adversely impact the carrying value of other long-lived assets and may lead to increased expenditures to renovate and reconfigure remaining branches or to otherwise reform its retail distribution channel.

RISKS RELATING TO FIFTH THIRD’S GENERAL BUSINESS

Deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted Fifth Third in the past and may adversely impact Fifth Third in the future.

When Fifth Third lends money or commits to lend money the Bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk of loss if borrowers do not
repay their loans. The credit performance of the loan portfolios significantly affects the Bancorp’s financial results and condition. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more customers may have difficulty in repaying their
loans or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and reserves for credit losses. Fifth Third reserves for credit losses by establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. The amount of these reserves is based on
Fifth Third’s assessment of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio including unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments is critical to Fifth Third’s
financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the environment, including analysis of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans.

Fifth Third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the
amount reserved. Fifth Third might increase the reserve because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower’s behavior. As an example, borrowers may
“strategically default,” or discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments.

Fifth Third believes that both the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover inherent losses at
December 31, 2015; however, there is no assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, Fifth Third may
be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce earnings.

For more information, refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the
Risk Management section of MD&A and the Allowance for Loan and Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Commitments subsections of the Critical Accounting Policies section of MD&A.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity.

Fifth Third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third primarily relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans Fifth Third makes and the operations of Fifth Third’s business. Core deposits, which
include transaction deposits and other time deposits, have historically provided Fifth Third with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds (average core deposits funded 71% of average total assets at December 31, 2015). In addition
to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include investments in the securities portfolio, Fifth Third’s sale or securitization of loans in secondary markets and the pledging of loans and investment securities to access secured borrowing
facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and Fifth Third’s ability to raise funds in domestic and international money and capital markets.

Fifth Third’s liquidity and ability to fund and run the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of
conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009,
which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms.

Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect Fifth Third’s liquidity and funding include a lack
of market or customer confidence in Fifth Third or negative news about Fifth Third or the financial services industry generally which also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to access the capital markets; the loss
of customer deposits to alternative investments; inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, increased regulatory requirements, and reductions in one or more of Fifth Third’s credit ratings. A reduced credit rating could adversely
affect Fifth Third’s ability to borrow funds and raise the cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect Fifth
Third’s ability to raise capital. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which Fifth Third has little or no control such as what occurred during the financial crisis. While market conditions have stabilized and,
in many cases, improved, there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future.

Recent regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk management may also negatively impact Fifth Third’s results of
operations and competitive position. Various regulations recently adopted or proposed, and additional regulations under consideration, impose or could impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including Fifth
Third. These regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing, minimum liquidity requirements and restrictions on short-term debt issued by top-tier holding companies. Given the overlap and complex interactions of these regulations
with other regulatory changes, including the resolution and recovery framework applicable to Fifth Third, the full impact of the adopted and proposed regulations will remain uncertain until their full
implementation.

27  Fifth
Third Bancorp




If Fifth Third is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank
deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if Fifth Third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively; then Fifth Third’s liquidity, operating margins, and financial results and
condition may be materially adversely affected. As Fifth Third did during the financial crisis, it may also need to raise additional capital through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even
eliminate common stock dividends to preserve capital.

Fifth Third may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent
loans are concentrated by location or industry of the borrowers or collateral.

Fifth Third’s credit risk and credit losses
can increase if its loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. Deterioration in economic conditions,
housing conditions and commodity and real estate values in these states and generally across the country could result in materially higher credit losses.

Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in
contractual representations and warranties.

Fifth Third sells residential mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs and
other financial institutions that purchase residential mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or
reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a specified period (usually 60 days or less) after Fifth
Third receives notice of the breach. Contracts for residential mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. If economic conditions and
the housing market deteriorate or future investor repurchase demand and Fifth Third’s success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, Fifth Third could have increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on
repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase reserve.

If Fifth Third does not appropriately adjust to rapid changes
in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer.

Fifth Third’s ability to deliver strong financial
performance and returns on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of competing against other
banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, Fifth Third’s competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and specialty finance, telecommunications, technology and
insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. This increasingly
competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Fifth Third may make strategic
investments and may expand an existing line of

business or enter into new lines of business to remain competitive. If it does not execute the appropriate strategies to effectively compete with or does not do so in an appropriate or timely
manner its business may suffer. Additionally, these strategies, products and lines of business may bring with them unforeseeable or unforeseen risks and may not generate the expected results or returns, which could adversely affect Fifth
Third’s results of operations or future growth prospects.

If Fifth Third is unable to grow its deposits, it may be subject to
paying higher funding costs.

The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is dependent, in part, on Fifth
Third’s ability to grow its deposits. If Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently grow its deposits to meet liquidity objectives, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. Fifth Third competes with banks and other financial services
companies for deposits. If competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, Fifth Third’s funding costs may increase, either because Fifth Third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because Fifth Third loses deposits and must rely on more
expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce Fifth Third’s net interest margin and net interest income. Fifth Third’s bank customers could take their money out of the Bank and put it in alternative investments, causing Fifth
Third to lose a lower cost source of funding. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return
tradeoff.

The Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect
its liquidity and ability to pay dividends.

Fifth Third Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries.
Fifth Third Bancorp typically receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth Third Bancorp’s stock and interest and principal on its
debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay. Regulatory scrutiny of capital levels at
bank holding companies and insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased since the financial crisis and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other distributions to
shareholders of banks such as the parent bank holding companies. Also, Fifth Third Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that
subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on the Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and principal on its debt. For
further information refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The financial services industry is highly
competitive and creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect Fifth Third’s revenue and profitability.

The
financial services industry in which Fifth Third operates is highly competitive. Fifth Third competes not only with commercial banks, but also with insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, telecommunications and technology and other companies
offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over the internet. Fifth Third competes on the basis of several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation,
reputation and price.

28




Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into
other firms. These developments could result in Fifth Third’s competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. Fifth Third may experience pricing pressures as a
result of these factors and as some of its competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices.

Fifth Third and/or the
holders of its securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies.

Fifth Third’s ability to
access the capital markets is important to its overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to Fifth Third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. The interest
rates that Fifth Third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to Fifth Third or its
subsidiaries’ credit rating could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth Third, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create
obligations or liabilities to Fifth Third under the terms of its outstanding securities that could increase Fifth Third’s costs or otherwise have a negative effect on its results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, a downgrade
of the credit rating of any particular security issued by Fifth Third or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.

Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel.

Fifth Third’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates
in the activities and markets that Fifth Third serves is great, which may increase Fifth Third’s expenses and may result in Fifth Third not being able to hire these candidates or retain them. If Fifth Third is not able to hire or retain these
key individuals, Fifth Third may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial condition.

Compensation paid by financial institutions such as Fifth Third has become increasingly regulated, particularly under the
DFA, which regulation affects the amount and form of compensation Fifth Third pays to hire and retain talented employees. If Fifth Third is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive
position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, Fifth Third’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.

Fifth Third’s mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter.

Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the
demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, revenue from MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and
the value of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a “natural hedge,” the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative
effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new

loans would accrue over time. It is also possible that even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to
offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.

Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other
instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. Fifth Third generally does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third attempts to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be successful. Hedging is a complex
process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. Fifth Third may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. Fifth Third could
incur significant losses from its hedging activities. There may be periods where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.

Fifth Third uses models for business planning purposes that may not adequately predict future results.

Fifth Third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various purposes including its capital and liquidity needs, potential
charge-offs, reserves, and other purposes. The models used may not accurately account for all variables that could affect future results, may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or understate certain effects. As a result of
these potential failures, Fifth Third may not adequately prepare for future events and may suffer losses or other setbacks due to these failures.

Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of MSRs.

Fifth Third acquires MSRs when it keeps the servicing rights after the sale or securitization of the loans that have been originated or when
it purchases the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. Fifth Third initially measures all residential MSRs at fair value and subsequently amortizes the MSRs in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing
income. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment monthly,
based on fair value, with temporary impairment recognized through a valuation allowance and other-than-temporary impairment recognized through a write-off of the servicing asset and related valuation allowance.

Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are
usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of MSRs can decrease. Each quarter Fifth Third evaluates the fair value of MSRs, and decreases in fair
value below amortized cost reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs.

The preparation of Fifth Third’s
financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results.

The preparation of consolidated financial
statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. If new information arises that results in a material change to a reserve amount, such a change could result in a change
to previously announced financial results. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section of MD&A for more information regarding management’s significant estimates.

Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could impact Fifth Third’s reported earnings and financial condition.

The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial
accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Fifth Third’s consolidated financial statements.

29  Fifth
Third Bancorp




These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Fifth Third could be required
to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the recasting of Fifth Third’s prior period financial statements.

Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders’ ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to become more susceptible
to adverse economic events.

Future business acquisitions could be material to Fifth Third and it may issue additional shares of
stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, Fifth Third could
become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.

Difficulties in combining the operations of acquired
entities with Fifth Third’s own operations may prevent Fifth Third from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions.

Inherent uncertainties exist when integrating the operations of an acquired entity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic
objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an acquisition. In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth Third and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. Fifth Third may lose customers or the customers of
acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. Future acquisition and integration activities may require Fifth Third to devote substantial time and resources and as a result Fifth Third may not be able to pursue other business opportunities.

After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain items are not accounted for properly in accordance with
financial accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity. For example, Fifth Third could experience higher charge-offs
than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio.

Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its
businesses. Should it determine to sell such a business, it may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in shareholders’ equity commensurate with desirable levels. Moreover, if Fifth Third sold such businesses, the loss of
income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future growth.

Fifth Third owns, or owns a minority stake in, as
applicable, several non-strategic businesses that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial services businesses. Fifth Third has, from time to time, considered and undertaken (and, in the case of Vantiv, has announced its intention
to continue) the sale of such businesses and/or interests, including, for example, portions of Fifth Third’s stake in Vantiv Holding, LLC. If it were to determine to sell such businesses and/or interests, Fifth Third would be subject to market
forces that may make completion of a sale unsuccessful or may not be able to do so within a desirable time frame. If Fifth Third were to complete the sale of any of its businesses and/or interests in third parties, it would suffer the loss of income
from the sold businesses and/or interests, including those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on its future earnings and growth. Additionally, Fifth Third may encounter
difficulties in separating the operations of any businesses it sells, which may affect its business or results of operations.

Fifth Third relies on its systems and certain service providers, and certain failures
could materially adversely affect operations.

Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing
computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. Fifth Third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be
inoperable. Fifth Third also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, Fifth Third cannot be certain that the measures will
be successful. A security breach in the systems and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could result in losing the customers’ confidence and thus the loss of their business as well as additional
significant costs for privacy monitoring activities.

Fifth Third’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to
record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be difficult to detect. Fifth Third may also be subject to disruptions
of its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages).

Third parties with which the Bancorp does business, as well as retailers and other third parties with which the
Bancorp’s customers do business, can also be sources of operational risk to the Bancorp, particularly where activities of customers are beyond the Bancorp’s security and control systems, such as through the use of the internet, personal
computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile services. Security breaches affecting the Bancorp’s customers, or systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or employee misconduct affecting such other third parties, may require the
Bancorp to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational systems or to safeguard confidential information of the Bancorp or its customers, thereby increasing the Bancorp’s operational costs and potentially diminishing customer
satisfaction. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Bancorp’s possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Bancorp could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and
financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either through the fault of the Bancorp’s systems,
employees or counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties. The Bancorp may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the
Bancorp’s control, which may include, for example, security breaches; electrical or telecommunications outages; failures of computer servers or other damage to the Bancorp’s property or assets; natural disasters or severe weather
conditions; health emergencies; or events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. While the Bancorp believes that its current resiliency plans are both sufficient and adequate, there
can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to the Bancorp or its customers and clients. Any failures or disruptions of the Bancorp’s systems or operations could give rise to losses in service
to customers and clients, adversely affect the Bancorp’s business and results of operations by subjecting the Bancorp to losses or liability, or require the Bancorp to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption, as well
as by exposing the Bancorp to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance.

30




Fifth Third is exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial of service, hacking, and identity theft.

Fifth Third relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach
in security of these systems could result in disruptions to its accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and adversely affect its customer relationships. While Fifth Third has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of
these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently remediated. There have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties,
including through cyber attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been several recent instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the
unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data, by both private individuals and foreign governments. In addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change frequently,
often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, Fifth Third may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
Furthermore, there has been a well-publicized series of apparently related distributed denial of service attacks on large financial services companies, including Fifth Third Bank. Distributed denial of service attacks are designed to saturate the
targeted online network with excessive amounts of network traffic, resulting in slow response times, or in some cases, causing the site to be temporarily unavailable. These events adversely affected the performance of Fifth Third’s website and
in some instances prevented customers from accessing Fifth Third’s website. Future cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and damaging. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and Fifth Third may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such
attacks. Fifth Third may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks or in the investigation of such cyber-attacks or related to the protection of the Bancorp’s customers from identity theft as a result of such attacks. Despite
this effort, the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of Fifth Third’s systems or third-party service providers, particularly if widespread or resulting in financial losses to customers, could also seriously damage Fifth
Third’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and financial liability.

Fifth Third is exposed to operational and reputational risk.

Fifth Third is exposed to many types of operational risk, including but not limited to, business continuity risk, information management risk,
fraud risk, model risk, third party service provider risk, human resources risk, and process risk.

Fifth Third’s
actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as lending practices, data security, corporate governance and acquisitions, may result in negative public opinion and may damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Actions taken by government regulators and
community organizations may also damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Additionally, whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the advent and expansion of social media facilitates the
rapid dissemination of information. Though Fifth Third monitors social media channels, the potential remains for rapid and widespread dissemination of inaccurate, misleading or false information that could damage Fifth Third’s reputation.
Negative public opinion can

adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to attract and keep customers and can increase the risk that it will be a target of litigation and regulatory action.

The results of Vantiv Holding, LLC could have a negative impact on Fifth Third’s operating results and financial condition.

In 2009, Fifth Third sold an approximate 51% interest in its processing business, Vantiv Holding, LLC (formerly Fifth Third Processing
Solutions). As a result of additional share sales completed by Fifth Third in 2013, 2014 and 2015, the Bancorp ownership share in Vantiv Holding, LLC as of December 31, 2015, is approximately 18%. The Bancorp’s investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC
is currently accounted for under the equity method of accounting and is not consolidated based on Fifth Third’s remaining ownership share in Vantiv Holding, LLC. Vantiv Holding, LLC’s operating results could be poor and could negatively
affect the operating results of Fifth Third. In addition, Fifth Third owns a warrant to acquire approximately 7.8 million Class C non-voting units of Vantiv Holding, LLC. Fifth Third participates in a multi-lender credit facility to Vantiv Holding,
LLC and repayment of these loans is contingent on the future cash flows of Vantiv Holding, LLC.

Changes in Fifth Third’s ownership in Vantiv
Holding, LLC could have an impact on Fifth Third’s stock price, operating results, financial condition, and future outlook.

Fifth Third expects that it will reduce its equity and derivative investments in Vantiv Holding, LLC and its publicly traded parent, Vantiv,
Inc., in whole or in part, but there can be no assurance that such sales will occur or as to when they will occur or the value that might be received by Fifth Third. A reduction in Fifth Third’s Vantiv ownership interest may result from a
series of sale transactions similar to transactions in Vantiv securities engaged in by Fifth Third to date, or could occur as a result of one or more larger transactions, depending on strategic considerations, market conditions, or other factors
deemed important by Fifth Third. Additionally, Fifth Third’s ownership in Vantiv could be affected by transactions that Vantiv may undertake. The nature, terms, and timing of transactions engaged in by Vantiv may not be entirely within Fifth
Third’s control, if at all. If and when Fifth Third’s ownership in Vantiv is reduced, such changes in ownership could have a material impact, positive or negative, on Fifth Third’s stock price, operating results, financial condition
and future outlook.

Weather related events or other natural disasters may have an effect on the performance of Fifth Third’s loan portfolios,
especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting its results of operations.

Fifth Third’s footprint stretches
from the upper Midwestern to lower Southeastern regions of the United States. These regions have experienced weather events including hurricanes and other natural disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of global climate
change upon their frequency and severity cannot be predicted. If large scale events occur, they may significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as well as impairing its borrowers’ ability to repay their
loans.

31  Fifth
Third Bancorp




RISKS RELATED TO THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT

As a regulated entity, the Bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.

The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding company. As such, it is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated
supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The Bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the FRB which
can change depending upon general economic conditions and the Bancorp’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive
use of capital and could adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels.

In
July 2013, the Federal banking agencies issued final rules for the enhanced regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations, which implemented aspects of Basel III. The final rules provide the option for certain banking organizations,
including the Bancorp, to opt out of including AOCI in regulatory capital and retain the treatment of residential mortgage exposures consistent with the current Basel I capital rules. The new capital rules became effective for the Bancorp on January
1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain components and other provisions. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity could limit Fifth Third’s business activities, including lending, and the
ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. Moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet
these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases.

The Bank must be well-capitalized, well-managed and maintain at least a “Satisfactory” CRA rating for the Bancorp
to retain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet these requirements could result in the FRB placing limitations or conditions on the Bancorp’s activities (and the commencement of new activities, including merger with or
acquisitions of other financial institutions) and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status. The FRB conducted a regularly scheduled examination covering 2011 through 2013 to determine the Bancorp’s banking
subsidiary’s compliance with the CRA. Although the FRB has not made a final determination, the Bancorp believes that the results of such CRA examination may result in a rating of “Needs to Improve”. If that would occur, such rating
would last at least until the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary’s next CRA examination.

In addition, failure by
the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the Bank to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the
issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.

Fifth Third’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new or changed regulations
and by the manner in which such regulations are applied by regulatory authorities.

Previous economic conditions, particularly in
the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased focus on and scrutiny of the financial services industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly
referred to as the financial crisis, by

introducing various actions and passing legislation such as the DFA. Such programs and legislation subject Fifth Third and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or costs
that may have an impact on Fifth Third’s business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of its common stock.

New proposals for legislation and regulations continue to be introduced that could further substantially increase regulation
of the financial services industry. Fifth Third cannot predict whether any pending or future legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on Fifth Third. Additional regulation could affect Fifth Third in a
substantial way and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.

Fifth Third is
subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth.

Under federal and state laws and
regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding companies, the FRB, the FDIC, the CFPB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions
by Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary. Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary are subject to such supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or
corporate decisions. There can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair Fifth
Third’s operations, restrict its growth and/or affect its dividend policy. Such actions and activities subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its banking subsidiary, entering into
a merger or acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing new branches, and entering into certain new businesses.

In addition, Fifth Third, as well as other financial institutions more generally, have recently been subjected to increased
scrutiny from government authorities, including bank regulatory authorities, stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, capital levels, asset quality, provisioning, AML/BSA, consumer compliance and
other prudential matters and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises. In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, are also pursuing
aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect Fifth Third’s
ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith.

In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit
a financial institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third’s regular examination process, Fifth Third’s and its banking subsidiary’s respective regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under various restrictions as
a prudential matter. Such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could negatively affect Fifth Third’s ability to engage in new activities and certain transactions, as well as have a material adverse effect on
Fifth Third’s business and results of operations and may not be publicly disclosed.

32




Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in
information-gathering requests, investigations and proceedings by various governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and
proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies, regarding their respective businesses. Such matters may result in material adverse consequences,
including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third’s SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or determinations of
material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures.

Deposit insurance premiums levied against Fifth Third Bank may
increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of resolving failed banks increases.

The FDIC maintains a DIF to
protect insured depositors in the event of bank failures. The DIF is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions including Fifth Third Bank. Under a rule adopted by the FDIC in 2011, regular assessment rates for all banks will decline
when the reserve ratio reaches 1.15%, which the FDIC expects will occur in early 2016. In October 2015, the FDIC issued a proposed rule which would impose on banks with at least $10 billion in assets, such as Fifth Third, a surcharge of 4.5 cents
per $100 of their assessment base, after making certain adjustments. The Bancorp estimates the impact of these changes will increase Fifth Third’s FDIC premiums by approximately $25 million per year. Future deposit premiums paid by Fifth Third
Bank depend on FDIC rules, which are subject to change, the level of the DIF and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. Fifth Third Bank may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums if market developments change such that the
DIF balance is reduced or the FDIC changes its rules to require higher premiums.

Fifth Third is subject to extensive governmental
regulation which could adversely impact Fifth Third or the businesses in which Fifth Third is engaged.

Fifth Third is subject to
extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations and limit the businesses in which Fifth Third may engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily
intended for the protection of consumers and depositors. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact Fifth Third or its ability to increase the value of its business. Additionally,
actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against Fifth Third could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. Future
changes in the laws, including tax laws, or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse to Fifth Third and its shareholders or may require Fifth Third to expend significant time and resources to comply with
such requirements.

The DFA, enacted in 2010, is complex and broad in scope and several of
its provisions are still being implemented. The DFA established the CFPB which has authority to regulate consumer financial products and services sold by banks and non-bank companies and to supervise banks with assets of more than $10 billion
and their affiliates for compliance with Federal consumer protection laws. Since its formation, the CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules that could have a significant impact on Fifth Third’s business and the financial services
industry more generally including integrated mortgage disclosures under the Truth

in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Compliance with the rules and policies adopted by the CFPB may limit the products Fifth Third may permissibly offer to customers, or
limit the terms on which those products may be issued, or may adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to conduct its business as previously conducted. Fifth Third may also be required to add additional compliance personnel or incur other
significant compliance-related expenses. Fifth Third’s business, results of operations or competitive position may be adversely affected as a result.

The reforms, both under the DFA and otherwise, are having a significant effect on the entire financial industry. Fifth Third
believes compliance with the DFA and implementing its regulations and other initiatives will likely continue to negatively impact revenue and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis, and may
also limit Fifth Third’s ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities. Any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements could require changes to Fifth Third’s businesses, result in increased compliance
costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. Additionally, reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that Fifth Third deals with in the course of business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. The extent to
which Fifth Third can adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known at this time.

Conforming Covered
Activities to the Volcker Rule may require the expenditure of resources and management attention.

The DFA “Volcker
Rule” provisions implementing the final rule generally restrict banks and their affiliated entities from investing in or sponsoring certain private equity and hedge funds. Fifth Third does not sponsor any private equity or hedge funds that it
is prohibited from sponsoring. As of December 31, 2015, the Bancorp had approximately $186 million in interests and approximately $37 million in binding commitments to invest in private equity funds likely to be affected by the Volcker Rule. It
is expected that the Bancorp may need to dispose of these investments although it is likely that these investments will be reduced over time in the ordinary course before compliance is required. In December 2014, the FRB extended the conformance
period through July 2016 for investments in and relationships with such covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013, and announced its intention to grant a one year extension of the conformance period until July 21, 2017. An ultimate
forced sale of some of these investments could result in Fifth Third receiving less value than it would otherwise have received.

33  Fifth
Third Bancorp




If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important bank holding company or non-bank
financial company were triggered, Fifth Third could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund.

The DFA creates authority
for the orderly liquidation of systemically important bank holding companies and non-bank financial companies and is based on the FDIC’s bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority
only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two-thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund
established under the DFA, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk-based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have
received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Fifth Third. Any such assessments may adversely affect Fifth
Third’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

Regulation of Fifth Third by the CFTC imposes additional
operational and compliance costs.

Title VII of DFA imposes a new regulatory regime on the U.S. derivatives markets. While most of
the provisions related to derivatives markets are now in effect, several additional requirements await final regulations from the relevant regulatory agencies for derivatives, the CFTC and the SEC. One aspect of this new regulatory regime for
derivatives is that substantial oversight responsibility has been provided to the CFTC, which, as a result, now has a meaningful supervisory role with respect to some of Fifth Third’s businesses. In 2014, Fifth Third Bank registered as a swap
dealer with the CFTC and became subject to new substantive requirements, including real time trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated
with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of all standardized swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be cleared. Although the ultimate impact
will depend on the promulgation of all final regulations, Fifth Third‘s derivatives business will likely be further subject to new substantive requirements, including margin requirements in excess of current market practice and capital
requirements specific to this business. These requirements will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on Fifth Third and will introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and
anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action). Once finalized, the rules may raise the costs and liquidity burden associated with Fifth Third’s derivatives businesses and adversely affect or cause Fifth Third to change its
derivatives products.

Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become the subject of litigation which could result in legal
liability and damage to Fifth Third’s reputation.

Fifth Third and certain of its directors and officers have been named from
time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to Fifth Third’s business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive
damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. The SEC may seek admissions of liability when settling cases, which could adversely impact the defense of private litigation. These matters could result in material

adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third’s SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable and/or
determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures. Like other large financial institutions and companies, Fifth Third is also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies
and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against Fifth Third could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause
significant reputational harm to its business.

Fifth Third’s ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to
repurchase its capital stock is restricted.

Fifth Third’s ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock is subject to
regulatory requirements and the need to meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third is subject to an annual assessment by the FRB as part of CCAR. The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment of the expected use and sources of capital
over the planning horizon, a description of all planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the Bancorp’s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or
liquidity, a detailed description of the Bancorp’s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp’s capital policy. Fifth Third’s stress testing results and 2016 capital plan will be submitted to the FRB by April 5, 2016.

The FRB’s review of the capital plan will assess the comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the
assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. Additionally, the FRB will review the robustness of the capital adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp’s ability to maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital
ratios and above a CET1 ratio of 5% under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon.

34




