Item 1. Business

Overview

Medtronic plc, headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, is the global leader in medical technology - alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world. Medtronic was founded in 1949 and today serves hospitals, physicians, clinicians, and patients in approximately 160 countries worldwide. We remain committed to a mission written by our founder 55 years ago that directs us “to contribute to human welfare by the application of biomedical engineering in the research, design, manufacture, and sale of products to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life.”

With innovation and market leadership, we have pioneered advances in medical technology in all of our businesses. Over the last five years, our net sales on a compounded annual growth basis have increased approximately 6 percent, from $15.508 billion in fiscal year 2011 to $20.261 billion in fiscal year 2015. Our commitment to enhance our offerings by developing and acquiring new products, wrap-around programs, and solutions to meet the needs of a broader set of stakeholders is driven by the following primary strategies:

•Therapy Innovation: Delivering a strong launch cadence of meaningful therapies and procedures.

•Globalization: Addressing the inequity in health care access globally, primarily in emerging markets.

•Economic Value: Becoming a leader in value-based health care by offering new services and solutions to improve outcomes and efficiencies, lower costs by reducing hospitalizations, improve remote clinical management, and increase patient engagement.

Our primary customers include hospitals, clinics, third-party health care providers, distributors, and other institutions, including governmental health care programs and group purchasing organizations (GPOs).

On January 26, 2015 (Acquisition Date), Medtronic completed the acquisition of Covidien plc, a public limited company organized under the laws of Ireland (Covidien) in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $50 billion. In connection with the transaction, Medtronic, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (Medtronic, Inc.), and Covidien were combined under and became subsidiaries of Medtronic plc. Covidien was a global leader in the development, manufacture and sale of healthcare products for use in clinical and home settings and had net sales for its fiscal year ended September 26, 2014 of $10.659 billion. On a pro forma basis, as if the Covidien merger had occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2014, our combined net sales would have been$28.369 billionfor fiscal year 2015 and$27.380 billionfor fiscal year 2014, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The merger with Covidien provides the combined company with increased financial strength and flexibility and is expected to meaningfully accelerate all three strategies discussed above.

With the Covidien acquisition, we reorganized our reporting structure and aligned our segments and the underlying divisions and businesses. The majority of Covidien’s operations are included in our new Minimally Invasive Therapies Group. The net sales amounts in the summary below include Covidien results for only one quarter since the Acquisition Date. Therefore, the Minimally Invasive Therapies Group is expected to be similar in size to our Cardiac and Vascular Group as measured by net sales on an annual basis. For more information on our segments, please see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We currently function in four operating segments that primarily manufacture and sell device-based medical therapies. Our operating segments with each of their reported net sales for fiscal year 2015, along with their related divisions and businesses, are as follows:

Cardiac and Vascular Group(Fiscal year 2015 net sales of $9.361 billion)

•Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure

•Coronary & Structural Heart

•Aortic & Peripheral Vascular

Minimally Invasive Technologies Group(Fiscal year 2015 net sales of $2.387 billion)

•Surgical Solutions

•Patient Monitoring and Recovery

Restorative Therapies Group(Fiscal year 2015 net sales of $6.751 billion)

•Spine

•Neuromodulation









•Surgical Technologies

•Neurovascular

Diabetes Group(Fiscal year 2015 net sales of $1.762 billion)

•Intensive Insulin Management

•Non-Intensive Diabetes Therapies

•Diabetes Services & Solutions

CARDIAC AND VASCULAR GROUP

Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure Disease Management (CRHF)

Our CRHF division develops, manufactures, and markets products for the diagnosis, treatment, and management of heart rhythm disorders and heart failure. Our products include implantable devices, leads and delivery systems, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF), products designed to reduce surgical site infections, information systems for the management of patients with CRHF devices, and an integrated health solutions business.

The following are the principal products and services offered by our CRHF division:

Implantable Cardiac Pacemakers (Pacemakers)Our latest generation of pacemaker systems is the Advisa and Revo MRI SureScan models, which have received United States (U.S.) Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) approval, and the Advisa and Ensura MRI SureScan models as well as the Micra Transcatheter Pacing System, which have all received Conformité Européene (CE) Mark approval.

Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators (ICDs)Our latest generation ICD is the Evera MRI SureScan, the first ICD system with CE Mark approval for full-body MRI scans. The Evera system is paired with the reliable Sprint Quattro Secure lead, the only defibrillator lead with more than 10 years of proven performance with active monitoring.

Implantable Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy Devices (CRT-Ds and CRT-Ps)Our latest generation of CRT-Ds is the Viva/Brava family with Attain Performa quadripolar lead and features a new algorithm, called AdaptivCRT, which improves heart failure patients' response rate to CRT-D therapy. With respect to CRT-P, Viva CRT-P is our latest generation device.

AF ProductsOur portfolio of AF products includes the Arctic Front Advance Cardiac Cryoballoon System designed for pulmonary vein isolation in the treatment of patients with drug refractory paroxysmal AF. Additionally, we have a second-generation CE Mark approved Phased RF System, PVAC Gold, which uses duty cycled, phased radio frequency energy for the treatment of symptomatic paroxysmal persistent and long-standing persistent AF.

Diagnostics and Monitoring DevicesOur Reveal LINQ is our newest Insertable Cardiac Monitor (ICM) System. The system is used to record the heart’s electrical activity before, during, and after transient symptoms such as syncope (i.e., fainting) and palpitations to assist in diagnosis.

Services and SolutionsOur Cardiocom products and services include remote monitoring and patient-centered software to enable efficient care coordination and specialized telehealth nurse support. Our TYRX products include the Absorbable Antibacterial Envelope and the TYRX Neuro Absorbable Antibacterial Envelope, which are designed to stabilize electronic implantable devices and help prevent infection associated with implantable pacemakers, defibrillators, and spinal cord neurostimulators. Our Cath Lab Managed Services business is focused on developing novel partnerships with hospitals to provide services directly related to hospital operational efficiency.

Coronary & Structural Heart Disease Management (CSH)

Our CSH division includes therapies to treat coronary artery disease (CAD), and heart valve disorders. Our products include coronary stents and related delivery systems, including a broad line of balloon angioplasty catheters, guide catheters, guide wires, diagnostic catheters, and accessories as well as products for the repair and replacement of heart valves, perfusion systems, positioning and stabilization systems for beating heart revascularization surgery, and surgical ablation products.

The following are the principal products offered by our CSH division:

Transcatheter Heart Valves (TCVs)Our latest generation TCVs include the CoreValve family of aortic valves. CoreValve, which is the only TCV system shown to be superior to open-heart surgery, has received U.S. FDA approval for extreme and high risk patients. Our next-generation recapturable TCV system, CoreValve Evolut R, has received CE Mark approval and enrollment in the U.S. IDE is complete.









Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI)Our latest generation PCI stent products include our Resolute Integrity drug-eluting stent systems, which have received U.S. FDA approval, as well as Resolute Onyx drug-eluting stent systems, which have received CE Mark approval.

Heart SurgeryWe offer a complete line of surgical valve replacement and repair products for damaged or diseased heart valves. Our replacement products include both tissue and mechanical valves. We also offer a complete line of blood-handling products that form a circulatory support system to maintain and monitor blood circulation and coagulation status, oxygen supply, and body temperature during arrested heart surgery. Additionally, we offer surgical ablation systems and positioning and stabilization technologies.

Aortic & Peripheral Vascular Disease Management (APV)

Our APV division, which includes a portion of the Covidien Peripheral business, is comprised of a comprehensive line of products and therapies to treat aortic disease (such as aneurysms, dissections, and transections) as well as peripheral vascular disease (PVD). Our products include endovascular stent graft systems, peripheral drug coated balloon, stent and angioplasty systems, and carotid embolic protection systems for the treatment of vascular disease outside the heart.

The following are the principal products offered by our APV division:

Endovascular Stent GraftsOur products are designed to treat aortic aneurysms in either the abdomen (AAA) or thoracic (TAA) regions of the aorta. Our product line includes a range of endovascular stent grafts and accessories including the market-leading Endurant II abdominal stent graft system and the Valiant Captivia thoracic stent graft system.

Peripheral Vascular Intervention (PVI)Our primary PVI products include percutaneous angioplasty balloons including the IN.PACT family of drug-coated balloons, which have U.S. FDA and CE Mark approval, as well as peripheral stents such as the Complete SE Vascular Stent and the Assurant Cobalt Iliac Stent and directional atherectomy products such as the TurboHawk plaque excision system, and other products to support procedures.



MINIMALLY INVASIVE THERAPIES GROUP

Surgical Solutions

Surgical Solutions develops, manufactures, and markets products and therapies to treat diseases and conditions that are typically, but not exclusively, addressed by surgeons. In addition, we develop, manufacture, and market several unique products in the emerging fields of minimally invasive gastrointestinal diagnostics, ablation, and interventional lung.

The following are the principal products offered by our Surgical Solutions division:

Surgical InnovationsThis business includes sales of stapling, vessel sealing, fixation (hernia mechanical devices), mesh, hardware and surgical instruments, sutures, and electrosurgery products. Key advanced surgical products include: the Tri-Staple technology platform for endoscopic stapling, including the Endo GIA reloads and reinforced reloads with Tri-Staple technology and the Endo GIA ultra universal stapler; the iDrive powered stapling systems; the LigaSure vessel sealing system, a multifunctional laparoscopic instrument for use with the ForceTriad; the Sonicision cordless ultrasonic dissection system; AbsorbaTack absorbable mesh fixation device for hernia repair; Symbotex composite mesh for surgical laparoscopic and open ventral hernia repair; and Parietex ProGrip, a selfgripping, biocompatible solution for inguinal hernias.

Early TechnologiesOur products include ablation products, and interventional lung and gastrointestinal solutions. This includes the i·Logic System to evaluate lung lesions; the Cool-tip radiofrequency ablation system; the Evident microwave ablation system; the PillCam SB, a minimally-invasive, swallowed optical endoscopy technology; and the HALO ablation catheters for treatment of Barrett’s esophagus.

Patient Monitoring & Recovery (PMR)

Our PMR division develops, manufactures, and markets products and therapies to enable complication-free recovery to enhance patient outcomes.

The following are the principal products offered by our PMR division:

Patient MonitoringOur products include sensors, monitors, and temperature management products. Key patient monitoring products include: the Nellcor Bedside SpO2 patient monitoring system, the Bispectral Index (BIS) brain monitoring technology, the INVOS Cerebral/Somatic Oximeter, Microstream®capnography monitors, and related modules and sensors.









Airway & VentilationThis business primarily includes sales of airway, ventilator and inhalation therapy products. Key airway & ventilation products include: the Puritan Bennett 840 and 980 ventilators, the Newport e360 and HT70 ventilators, theTaperGuard Evac tube, Mallinckrodt®Endotracheal Tubes, Shiley Tracheostomy Tubes, DAR Filters, and resuscitation bags.

Nursing CareThis business primarily includes sales of incontinence, wound care, enteral feeding, urology, and suction products. Key nursing care products include Curity and Kerlix gauze and bandages and Kangaroo enteral feeding systems.

Patient Care & Safety (PCS)Our products include medical surgical products, such as operating room supply products, electrodes, and SharpSafety products, which includes needles, syringes, and sharps disposal products. In addition, we manufacture Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) products, which are various medical supplies manufactured for other medical products companies. Under our Medi-Trace brand, we offer a comprehensive line of monitoring, diagnostic, and defibrillation electrodes.



RESTORATIVE THERAPIES GROUP

Spine



Our Spine division develops, manufactures, and markets a comprehensive line of medical devices and implants used in the treatment of the spine and musculoskeletal system. Our products and therapies treat a variety of conditions affecting the spine, including degenerative disc disease, spinal deformity, spinal tumors, fractures of the spine, and stenosis. Our Spine division also provides biologic solutions for the orthopedic and dental markets and, in concert with our Surgical Technologies business, we offer unique and highly differentiated navigation, neuromonitoring, and power technologies designed for spine procedures.

The following are the principal products offered by our Spine division:

Thoracolumbar ProductsOur products used to treat conditions in this region of the spine include the CD HORIZON SOLERA and LEGACY Systems, and the CAPSTONE interbody spacers. In addition, Medtronic offers a number of products that facilitate less invasive thoracolumbar surgeries, including the CD HORIZON SOLERA SEXTANT and LONGITUDE Percutaneous Fixation Systems, the Direct Lateral Access System and corresponding CLYDESDALE Interbody Implant, Xpander II Balloon Kyphoplasty product for vertebral compression fractures, and the METRx System. Other products include AMT interbody implants, Powerease powered surgical instruments, and the NIM-ECLIPSE Spinal System.

Cervical ProductsProducts used to treat conditions in this region of the spine include the ATLANTIS VISION ELITE Anterior Cervical Plate System, the VERTEX SELECT Reconstruction System, and the PRESTIGE and BRYAN Cervical Artificial Discs.

Biologics ProductsOur Biologics platform products include INFUSE Bone Graft (InductOs in the European Union (EU)), which contains a recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein, rhBMP-2, for certain spinal, trauma, and oral maxillofacial applications, Demineralized Bone Matrix (DBM) products, including MagniFuse, Grafton/Grafton Plus, and PROGENIX, and the MASTERGRAFT family of synthetic bone graft products - Matrix, Putty, and Granules.

Neuromodulation

Our Neuromodulation division includes implantable neurostimulation and targeted drug delivery systems for the management of chronic pain, common movement disorders, spasticity, and urologic and gastrointestinal disorders. Neurostimulation uses an implantable medical device, similar to a pacemaker, called a neurostimulator.

The following are the principal products offered by our Neuromodulation division:

Neurostimulation Systems for Chronic PainWe have a large portfolio of neurostimulation systems, including rechargeable and non-rechargeable devices and a large selection of leads used to treat chronic back and/or limb pain. Our portfolio of products includes pain neurostimulation systems with SureScan MRI Technology, including the RestoreSensor (rechargeable) SureScan MRI, with its proprietary AdaptiveStim technology.

Implantable Drug Infusion SystemsOur SynchroMed II Implantable Infusion System delivers small quantities of drug directly into the intrathecal space surrounding the spinal cord. These devices are used to treat chronic, intractable pain and severe spasticity associated with cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord and traumatic brain injuries, and stroke.

Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) SystemsDBS is currently approved in many countries around the world for the treatment of the disabling symptoms of essential tremor, Parkinson's disease, refractory epilepsy (outside the U.S.), severe, treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder (approved under a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) in the U.S.), and chronic, intractable primary dystonia (approved under a HDE in the U.S.). Our family of Activa Neurostimulators for DBS includes Activa SC (single-channel primary cell battery), Activa PC (dual channel primary cell battery), and Activa RC (dual channel rechargeable battery).









Gastroenterology & Urology (Gastro/Uro) SystemsOur Sacral neuromodulation uses InterStim, a neurostimulator, to help control the symptoms of overactive bladder, (non-obstructive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence. Currently, Enterra Therapy is the only gastric electrical stimulation therapy approved in the U.S. (under a HDE), Europe, and Canada for use in the treatment of intractable nausea and vomiting associated with gastroparesis. The system, which contains a small neurostimulator and two leads, stimulates the smooth muscles of the lower stomach.

Surgical Technologies

Our Surgical Technologies division develops, manufactures, and markets products and therapies to treat diseases and conditions of the ear, nose, and throat (ENT) and certain neurological disorders. In addition, the division develops, manufactures, and markets image-guided surgery and intra-operative imaging systems that facilitate surgical planning during precision cranial, spinal, sinus, and orthopedic surgeries. Our Advanced Energy business includes products in the emerging field of advanced energy surgical incision technology, as well as the haemostatic sealing of soft tissue and bone.

The following are the principal products offered by our Surgical Technologies division:

NeurosurgeryOur Navigation products are used in cranial, spinal, sinus, and orthopedic surgeries: the StealthStation S7 Navigation and i7 Integrated Navigation Systems, and the O-arm 2D/3D Surgical Imaging System.

ENTThe following products treat ENT diseases and conditions: Straightshot M5 Microdebrider Handpiece, the IPC system, NIM Nerve Monitoring Systems, Fusion ENT Navigation System, as well as surgical products for Snoring and Obstructive Sleep Apnea.

Advanced EnergyOur PEAK Surgery System is a tissue dissection system that consists of the PEAK PlasmaBlade and PULSAR Generator and is cleared for use in a variety of settings, including plastic reconstructive surgery, general surgery, and certain conditions of ENT. Our Aquamantys System uses patented transcollation technology to provide haemostatic sealing of soft tissue and bone and is cleared for use in a variety of surgical procedures, including orthopedic surgery, spine, solid organ resection and thoracic procedures.

Neurovascular

Our Neurovascular division, which was acquired in the Covidien acquisition, develops, manufactures, and markets products and therapies to treat diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain. Our products include coils, neurovascular stents, and flow diversion products, as well as access and delivery products to support procedures.

The following are the principal products offered by our Neurovascular division:

The Pipeline and Pipeline Flex Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms; the Solitaire FR revascularization device for treatment of acute ischemic stroke; and the Apollo Onyx delivery micro catheter, the first detachable tip micro-catheter available in the U.S.



DIABETES GROUP

Our Diabetes group consists of three divisions (Intensive Insulin Management, Non-Intensive Diabetes Therapies, and Diabetes Services & Solutions) that develop, manufacture, and market advanced, integrated diabetes management solutions that include insulin pump therapy, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems, and therapy management software.

The following are the principal products offered by our Diabetes divisions:

Integrated Diabetes Management SolutionsWe have the only integrated insulin pump and CGM system currently available on the market. In the U.S., we offer the MiniMed 530G System featuring our threshold suspend technology, which automatically suspends insulin delivery when glucose levels reach a pre-determined threshold, and newest CGM sensor, Enlite, a sensor that can be worn for 6-days and is more comfortable, more accurate, and smaller than our previous generation sensor. Outside the U.S., we offer our MiniMed 640G System, an integrated system with the Enhanced Enlite CGM sensor that features SmartGuard technology, which automatically suspends insulin delivery when sensor glucose levels are predicted to approach a low limit and then resumes insulin delivery once levels recover.

Professional CGMIn addition to our Personal CGM (Enlite), we offer physicians a Professional CGM product called the iPro2/iPro Professional CGM System. Patients wear the iPro2/iPro recorder to capture glucose data that is later uploaded in a physician’s office to reveal glucose patterns and potential problems, including hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic episodes. The data leads to more informed treatment decisions.









CareLink Therapy Management SoftwareOur web-based therapy management software solutions, including CareLink Personal software for patients and CareLink Pro software, to help patients and their health care providers control their diabetes.



Customers and Competitors

Cardiac and Vascular GroupThe primary medical specialists who use our Cardiac and Vascular products include electrophysiologists, implanting cardiologists, heart failure specialists, cardiovascular and vascular surgeons and interventional cardiologists and radiologists. Our primary competitors are St. Jude Medical, Inc. (St. Jude), Boston Scientific Corporation (Boston Scientific), Sorin Group (Sorin), Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (Edwards), C.R. Bard Inc. (Bard), and Abbott Laboratories (Abbott).

Minimally Invasive Therapies GroupThe products and therapies of this group are used primarily by hospitals, physicians' offices, and ambulatory care centers, as well as other alternate site healthcare providers. Our primary competitors are Johnson & Johnson, Boston Scientific, Baxter International Inc., and Bard.



Restorative Therapies GroupThe primary medical specialists who use the products of this group include spinal surgeons, neurosurgeons, neurologists, pain management specialists, anesthesiologists, orthopedic surgeons, urologists, interventional radiologists, and ear, nose, and throat specialists. Our primary competitors include Johnson & Johnson, Boston Scientific, St. Jude, Stryker Corporation (Stryker), NuVasive, Inc., and Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (Zimmer).

Diabetes GroupThe primary medical specialists who use and/or prescribe our Diabetes products are endocrinologists, diabetologists, and internists. Our primary competitors are Johnson & Johnson, DexCom, Inc., Insulet Corporation, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.



OTHER FACTORS IMPACTING OUR OPERATIONS

Research and Development

The markets in which we participate can be subject to rapid technological advances. Constant improvement of products and introduction of new products is necessary to maintain market leadership. Our research and development (R&D) efforts are directed toward maintaining or achieving technological leadership in each of the markets we serve in order to help ensure that patients using our devices and therapies receive the most advanced and effective treatment possible. We remain committed to developing technological enhancements and new indications for existing products, and less invasive and new technologies for new and emerging markets to address unmet patient needs. That commitment leads to our initiation and participation in many clinical trials each fiscal year as the demand for clinical and economic evidence remains high. Furthermore, our development activities are intended to help reduce patient care costs and the length of hospital stays in the future. We have not engaged in significant customer or government-sponsored research.

During fiscal years2015,2014, and2013, we spent$1.640 billion(8.1percent of net sales),$1.477 billion(8.7percent of net sales), and$1.557 billion(9.4percent of net sales) on R&D, respectively. The Covidien acquisition contributed to the decline in R&D as a percent of net sales during fiscal year 2015. Our R&D activities include improving existing products and therapies, expanding their indications and applications for use, and developing new products. We continue to focus on optimizing innovation, improving our R&D productivity, driving growth in emerging markets, clinical evidence generation, and assessing our R&D programs based on their ability to deliver economic value to our customers.

Acquisitions and Investments

Our strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients' health and extend lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop an all-encompassing portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our R&D efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon acquisitions, investments, and alliances to provide access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas and markets.

We expect to make future investments or acquisitions where we believe that we can stimulate the development of, or acquire new technologies and products to further, our strategic objectives, and strengthen our existing businesses. Mergers and acquisitions of medical technology companies are inherently risky and no assurance can be given that any of our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows.









For additional information, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business."

Acquisition of Covidien plc

On January 26, 2015, pursuant to a transaction agreement, dated as of June 15, 2014 (the Transaction Agreement), Medtronic, Inc. and Covidien became subsidiaries of the Company. The total cash and stock value of the Covidien acquisition was approximately $50 billion.  The operating results for Covidien are included in the Minimally Invasive Therapies Group, Cardiac and Vascular Group and Restorative Therapies Group segments.

Based upon a preliminary acquisition valuation, the Company acquired$18.3 billionof customer-related intangible assets,$7.1 billionof technology-based intangible assets,$0.5 billionof tradenames, with weighted average estimated useful lives of18,16, and3 years, respectively,$0.4 billionof in-process research and development (IPR&D), and$29.6 billionof goodwill.

Other Fiscal Year 2015 Acquisitions

Sophono, Inc.

On March 26, 2015, the Company acquired Sophono, Inc. (Sophono), a privately-held developer and manufacturer of minimally invasive, transcutaneous bone conduction hearing implants. Total consideration for the transaction was approximately$17 million, which included an upfront payment of$6 millionand the estimated fair value of revenue-based contingent consideration of$11 million. Based upon a preliminary acquisition valuation, the Company acquired$11 millionof technology-based intangible assets with an estimated useful life of13 yearsat the time of the acquisition,$2 millionof IPR&D, and$5 millionof goodwill.

Diabeter

On March 26, 2015, the Company acquired Diabeter, an innovative Netherlands-based diabetes clinic and research center dedicated to providing comprehensive and individualized care for children and young adults with diabetes. Total consideration for the transaction was approximately$10 million. Based upon a preliminary acquisition valuation, the Company acquired$9 millionof goodwill.

NGC Medical S.p.A.

On August 26, 2014, the Company acquired NGC Medical S.p.A. (NGC), a privately-held Italian company that offers a broad suite of hospital management services. Total consideration for this transaction was approximately$340 million. Medtronic had previously invested in NGC and held a30 percentownership position. Net of this ownership position, the transaction value was approximately$238 million. Based upon a preliminary valuation, the Company acquired$159 millionof customer-related intangible assets and tradenames with an estimated useful life of20 yearsat the time of acquisition and$197 millionof goodwill.

Sapiens Steering Brain Stimulation

On August 25, 2014, the Company acquired Sapiens Steering Brain Stimulation (Sapiens), a privately-held developer of deep brain stimulation technologies. Total consideration for the transaction was approximately$203 million. Based upon a preliminary valuation, the Company acquired$30 millionof IPR&D and$170 millionof goodwill.

Visualase, Inc.

On July 25, 2014, the Company acquired Visualase, Inc. (Visualase), a privately-held developer of minimally invasive MRI guided laser ablation for surgical applications. Total consideration for the transaction was approximately$97 million. Based upon a preliminary valuation, the Company acquired$66 millionof technology-based intangible assets with an estimated useful life of10 yearsat the time of acquisition and$43 millionof goodwill.

Corventis, Inc.

On June 20, 2014, the Company acquired Corventis, Inc. (Corventis), a privately-held developer of wearable, wireless technologies for cardiac disease. Total consideration for the transaction was approximately$131 million, including a$50 millionpayment to Medtronic with respect to settlement of outstanding debt. Based upon the acquisition valuation, the Company acquired$80 millionof technology-based intangible assets with an estimated useful life of16 yearsat the time of acquisition and$48 millionof goodwill.

Patents and Licenses

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We have filed and obtained numerous patents in the U.S. and abroad, and regularly file patent applications worldwide in our continuing effort to establish and protect our proprietary technology.









Markets and Distribution Methods

We sell most of our medical devices and therapies through direct sales representatives in the U.S. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in markets outside the U.S. For certain portions of our business acquired through the Covidien acquisition, we also sell through distributors in the U.S. Our medical supplies products are used primarily in hospitals, surgi-centers and alternate care facilities, such as home care and long-term care facilities, and are marketed to materials managers, GPOs and integrated delivery networks (IDNs) primarily through third-party distributors, although we also have direct sales representatives. We often negotiate with GPOs and IDNs, which enter into supply contracts for the benefit of their member facilities. Our three largest markets are the U.S., Western Europe, and Japan. Emerging markets are an area of increasing focus and opportunity as we believe they remain under-penetrated.

Our marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide - including physicians, hospitals, other medical institutions, and GPOs. To achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales teams around physician specialties. This focus enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong relationships with physicians and other customers and enhance our ability to cross-sell complementary products. We believe that we maintain excellent working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry that enable us to gain a detailed understanding of therapeutic and diagnostic developments, trends, and emerging opportunities and respond quickly to the changing needs of physicians and patients. We attempt to enhance our presence in the medical community through active participation in medical meetings and by conducting comprehensive training and educational activities. We believe that these activities contribute to physician expertise.

In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in health care delivery, the current trend among hospitals and other customers is to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power. This enhanced purchasing power may lead to pressure on pricing and increased use of preferred vendors. Our customer base continues to evolve to reflect such economic changes across the geographic markets we serve. We are not dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net sales.

Competition and Industry

We compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in approximately 160 countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. Our product lines face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers offering a limited selection of products. In addition, we face competition from providers of other medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies.

Major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products, reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in the medical device industry. In addition, in the current environment of managed care, economically motivated customers, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, maintain high-quality manufacturing processes, and successfully market these products.









Worldwide Operations

Our global operations are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country; often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect revenues, net of expenses, and cash flows from operations outside the U.S. We use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative contracts, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes on earnings and cash flow. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the repatriation of earnings of certain subsidiaries outside the U.S. may result in substantial U.S. tax cost.

For financial reporting purposes, net sales and property, plant, and equipment attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Production and Availability of Raw Materials

Working Capital Practices

Our goal is to carry sufficient levels of inventory to ensure adequate supply of raw materials from suppliers and meet the product delivery needs of our customers. We also provide payment terms to customers in the normal course of business and rights to return product under warranty to meet the operational demands of our customers.

Employees

OnApril 24, 2015, we employed more than 92,000 employees (including full-time equivalent employees). Our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits, and our rewarding work environment.

Seasonality

Worldwide sales, including U.S. sales, do not reflect a significant degree of seasonality; however, the number of medical procedures incorporating Medtronic products is generally lower during summer months, due to summer vacation schedules in the northern hemisphere, particularly in European countries. In addition, pulse oximetry sales can be impacted by flu season.

Government Regulation and Other Considerations

Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. FDA and similar agencies outside the U.S. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. Our business is also affected by U.S. and foreign









patient privacy laws, cost containment initiatives and environmental health and safety laws and regulations. The primary laws and regulations that affect our business are described below.

The laws applicable to us are subject to change and are subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Medtronic and its officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties including substantial fines and damages, and exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare or Medicaid.

Product Approval Processes

Authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device or technology in the U.S. is generally received in one of two ways. The first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device or technology is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device or technology. In this process, we must submit data that supports our equivalence claim. If human clinical data is required, it must be gathered in compliance with U.S. FDA investigational device exemption regulations. We must receive an order from the U.S. FDA finding substantial equivalence to another legally marketed medical device or technology before we can commercially distribute the new medical device or technology. Modifications to cleared medical devices or technologies can be made without using the 510(k) process if the changes do not significantly affect safety or effectiveness. Covidien products are generally subject to the pre-market notification process. A very small number of our devices are exempt from pre-market review.

The second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (PMA), requires us to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective. We do this by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal testing, and human clinical data for the medical device. The U.S. FDA will authorize commercial distribution if it determines there is reasonable assurance that the medical device is safe and effective. This determination is based on the benefit outweighing the risk for the population intended to be treated with the device. This process is much more detailed, time-consuming, and expensive than the 510(k) process. A third, seldom used, process for approval exists for humanitarian use devices, intended for patient populations of less than 4,000 patients per year in the U.S. This exemption is similar to the PMA process; however, a full showing of product effectiveness from large clinical trials is not required. The threshold for approving these products is probable benefit and safety.

Many countries outside the U.S. to which we export medical devices also subject such medical devices and technologies to their own regulatory requirements. Frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a foreign country prior to application in the U.S. due to differing regulatory requirements; however, other countries, such as China for example, require approval in the country of origin first. Most countries outside of the U.S. require that product approvals be recertified on a regular basis, generally every five years. The recertification process requires that we evaluate any device or technology changes and any new regulations or standards relevant to the device or technology and, where needed, conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance. Where recertification applications are required, they must be approved in order to continue selling our products in those countries. Because export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations are complex and constantly changing, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations may not be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our ability to sell or distribute products.

In the European Union (EU), a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the legal requirements is represented by the CE Mark. To obtain a CE Mark, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (i.e., the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. A notified body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the medical device directive. Medtronic is subject to inspection by notified bodies for compliance. The competent authorities of the EU countries, generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, oversee the clinical research for medical devices and are responsible for market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. We are required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these authorities in a timely manner. Various penalties exist for non-compliance with the laws transcribing the medical device directives.

To be sold in Japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval, or “shonin.” The Japanese government, through the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare (MHLW), regulates medical devices under the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (PAL). Oversight for medical devices is conducted with participation by the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA), a quasi-government organization performing many of the review functions for MHLW. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance with PAL could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. MHLW and PMDA also assess the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the requirements of the PAL. Medtronic is subject to inspection for compliance by these agencies.

Our global regulatory environment is becoming increasingly stringent, and unpredictable, which could increase the time, cost and complexity of obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. Several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for









medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, on existing regulations. Certain regulators are requiring local clinical data in addition to global clinical data. While harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. We expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact our ability to obtain future approvals for our products, or could increase the cost and time to obtain such approvals in the future. There can be no assurance that any new medical devices we develop will be approved in a timely or cost-effective manner or approved at all.



Ongoing U.S. FDA Regulations



In April 2015 we entered into a consent decree with the FDA relating to our Neuromodulation business’ SynchroMed drug infusion system and the Neuromodulation quality system.  The consent decree requires the Company to complete certain corrections and enhancements to the SynchroMed pump and the Neuromodulation quality system.  The consent decree limits the Company's ability to manufacture and distribute the SynchroMed drug infusion system, unless specific conditions are met.  The agreement does not require the retrieval of any of the Company’s products, but the Company must retain a third-party expert to inspect the Neuromodulation quality system and to provide a certification that the system complies with the requirements of the consent decree.  Once this certification is provided to the FDA's satisfaction, the limitations on manufacturer and distribution of SynchroMed pumps will be lifted.  Thereafter, the Company must submit periodic audit reports to the FDA to ensure ongoing compliance with the consent decree.

Governmental Trade Regulations

The sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive governmental trade regulations. A variety of laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and in the countries in which we transact business, apply to the sale, shipment and provision of goods, services and technology across international borders. Because we are subject to extensive regulations in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, our import and export activities.

The U.S. FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. Medtronic is also subject to foreign trade controls administered by several U.S. government agencies, including the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department and the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Treasury Department. We import raw materials, components and finished products into the countries in which we transact business. We act as the import of record in many instances, but we also sell and ship goods to third parties who are themselves responsible for complying with applicable trade laws and regulations. In our role as importer of record, we are directly responsible for complying with customs laws and regulations concerning the importation of our raw materials, components and finished products. If applicable government agencies were to determine that we or such third parties were not in compliance with applicable U.S. FDA or customs laws and regulations when engaging in cross-border transactions involving our products, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, depending on the nature of the violation and









the extent of our culpability. In addition, such determinations may cause supply chain disruptions and delays in the distribution of our products that impact our business activities.

Anti-Boycott Laws

Under U.S. laws and regulations, U.S. companies and their controlled-in-fact foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are prohibited from participating or agreeing to participate in unsanctioned foreign boycotts in connection with certain business activities, including the sale, purchase, transfer, shipping or financing of goods or services within the U.S. or between the U.S. and a foreign country. Currently, the U.S. considers the Arab League boycott of Israel to constitute an unsanctioned foreign boycott. We are responsible for ensuring we comply with the requirements of U.S. anti-boycott laws for all transactions in which we are involved. If we, or certain third parties through which we sell or provide goods or services, are determined to have violated U.S. anti-boycott laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, dependent upon the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. Penalties for any violations of anti-boycott laws and regulations could include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, loss of export privileges and the denial of certain tax benefits, including foreign tax credits, and foreign subsidiary deferrals.

Patient Privacy Laws

We are also impacted by the privacy requirements of countries outside the United States. Privacy standards in Europe and Asia are becoming increasingly strict. Enforcement action and financial penalties related to privacy in the EU are growing, and new









laws and restrictions are being passed. The management of cross border transfers of information among and outside of EU member countries is becoming more complex, which may complicate our clinical research activities, as well as product offerings that involve transmission or use of clinical data. China and Russia have passed so-called “data localization” laws, which require multi-national companies that store certain individually identifiable data on their citizens to maintain that data on servers located in their country. Restrictions on transfer or processing of that data may apply as well. These laws are new and the Chinese and Russian governments have not yet issued guidance on how they will apply or enforce them. The restrictions may complicate our operations in those countries, adding complexity and additional management and oversight needs. We will continue our efforts to comply with those requirements and to adapt our business processes to applicable laws.

Cost Containment Initiatives

Some third-party payers must also approve coverage and set reimbursement levels for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the medical devices or therapies. Even though a new medical device may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until coverage and sufficient reimbursement levels have been obtained from governmental and private third-party payers. In addition, some private third-party payers require that certain procedures or that the use of certain products be authorized in advance as a condition of reimbursement. International examples of cost containment initiatives and health care reforms in markets significant to Medtronic's business include Japan, where the government reviews reimbursement rate benchmarks every two years, which may significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or deny coverage for those procedures. As a result of our manufacturing efficiencies, cost controls and other cost-savings initiatives, we believe we are well-positioned to respond to changes resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost-containment; however, uncertainty remains as to the nature of any future legislation, new or changed coverage and reimbursement government or private payor policies or decisions, or other reforms, making it difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on future operating results.

Regulations Governing Reimbursement

The delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by HHS and comparable state and non-U.S. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. U.S. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as the government’s interest in regulating the quality and cost of health care. Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services.









The laws and regulations of health care goods and services that are applicable to us, including those described above, are subject to evolving interpretations and enforcement discretion. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil financial penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare. Any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and health care goods and services could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows.

Our profitability and operations are subject to risks relating to changes in U.S. and foreign legislative, regulatory and reimbursement policies and decisions as well as changes to private payer reimbursement coverage and payment decisions and policies. Implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement system in the U.S. and abroad, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them.

Environmental Health and Safety Laws

We are also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the U.S. Like other companies in our industry, our manufacturing and other operations involve the use and transportation of substances regulated under environmental health and safety laws including those related to the transportation of hazardous materials. To the best of our knowledge at this time, we do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

Litigation Risks

Patent LitigationWe operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. At any given time, we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incidents to our business, we believe the outcomes associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. For additional information, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors - We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others.” and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Product Liability and Other ClaimsWe operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. We are also susceptible to other litigation, including private securities litigation, shareholder derivative suits and contract litigation. These claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of product liability litigation, we believe the outcomes associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. For additional information, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Quality problems with, and product liability claims in connection with, our processes, goods, and services, could lead to recalls or safety alerts, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our cash flows.” and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Self-Insurance

With the exception of insurance that Covidien currently holds for certain risks, we have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. We made this decision based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insurance retentions, increasing numbers of coverage limitations, and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. We maintain a directors and officers insurance policy providing limited coverage and we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. Based on historical loss trends, we believe that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses. Historical trends, however, may not be indicative of future losses. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.









Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act

Under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, the Company is required to include certain disclosures in its periodic reports if the Company or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during the period covered by the report. As part of its ongoing compliance program, the Company identified certain sales of medical devices made during fiscal year 2015 by one of its non-U.S. affiliated entities to parties in Iran that were not covered by a general license issued by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls ("OFAC"). Those sales, which were generally conducted through distributors, whose customers include public hospitals which may be owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Iranian government, resulted in approximately $4 million in gross revenues and approximately $3 million in net profits (excluding selling, general, and administrative expenses and allocations) in fiscal year 2015. At the time of these sales, the Company believed, based on correspondence received from OFAC in response to a request to renew the specific licenses the Company had to cover these sales, that the sales were eligible for an OFAC general license. The Company subsequently obtained the specific licenses required for these continued sales. The Company has also submitted an initial notification of voluntary self-disclosure regarding this matter to OFAC.

Executive Officers of Medtronic

Set forth below are the names and ages of current Section 16(b) executive officers of Medtronic, as well as information regarding their positions with Medtronic, their periods of service in these capacities, and their business experiences. There are no family relationships among any of the officers named, nor is there any arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer.

Omar Ishrak, age 59, has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since January 2015 and of Medtronic, Inc. since June 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Ishrak served as President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Systems, a division of GE Healthcare, from 2009 to 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Ishrak was President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Clinical Systems from 2005 to 2008 and President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Ultrasound and BMD from 1995 to 2004.

Michael J. Coyle,age 52, has been Executive Vice President and Group President, Cardiac and Vascular Group of the Company since January 2015 and of Medtronic, Inc. since December 2009. Prior to that, he served as President of the Cardiac Rhythm Management division at St. Jude from 2001 to 2007, and prior positions included serving St. Jude as President of the company’s Daig Catheter division and numerous leadership positions at Eli Lilly & Company.

Gary L. Ellis,age 58, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since January 2015 and of Medtronic, Inc. since April 2014. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 2005 to April 2014; Vice President, Corporate Controller and Treasurer from October 1999 to May 2005, and Vice President and Corporate Controller from August 1994 to October 1999. Mr. Ellis joined Medtronic in 1989 as Assistant Corporate Controller and was promoted to Vice President of Finance for Medtronic Europe in 1992, until being named as Corporate Controller in 1994. Mr. Ellis is a member of the board of directors of The Toro Company and past chairman of the American Heart Association.

Hooman C. Hakami, age 45, has been Executive Vice President and Group President, Diabetes Group of the Company since January 2015 and of Medtronic, Inc. since June 2014. Prior to that, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Detection and Guidance Solutions at GE Healthcare from April 2012 to May 2014. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Interventional Systems from July 2009 to April 2012; Global Business Transformation leader for GE Healthcare from December 2008 to July 2009; and Vice President and General Manager, Global Ultrasound Services from June 2004 to December 2008. Mr. Hakami started his career with GE and has held the following financial roles: Chief Financial Officer for the Global Ultrasound division from 2001 to 2004; Chief Financial Officer for Clinical and Multi-vendor Services from 1999 to 2001; as well as various finance roles at GE Capital from 1994 to 1999; GE's Aerospace Division from 1992 to 1994 and GE Power Systems from 1991 to 1992.

Bryan C. Hanson, age 48, has been Executive Vice President and Group President, Minimally Invasive Therapies Group of the Company since January 2015. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Group President, Covidien since October 2014; Senior Vice President and Group President, Medical Devices and United States of Covidien from October 2013 to September 2014; Senior Vice President and Group President of Covidien for the Surgical Solutions business from July 2011 to October 2013; and President of Covidien’s Energy-based Devices business from July 2006 to June 2011. Mr. Hanson held several other positions of increasing responsibility in sales, marketing and general management with Covidien from October 1992 to July 2006.

Bradley E. Lerman, age 58, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company since January 2015 and of Medtronic, Inc. since May 2014. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary at Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) from October 2012 to May 2014; Senior Vice President and Chief Litigation Counsel at Pfizer, Inc. from January 2009 to September 2012; Partner at Winston & Strawn from August









1998 to January 2009; partner at Kirkland & Ellis from March 1996 to July 1998; Associate Independent Counsel from October 1994 to March 1996; and Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Northern District of Illinois from February 1986 to September 1994.

Geoffrey S. Martha, age 45, has been Senior Vice President of Strategy and Business Development of the Company since January 2015 and of Medtronic, Inc. since August 2011. Prior to that, he served as Managing Director of Business Development at GE Healthcare from April 2007 to July 2011; General Manager for GE Capital Technology Finance Services from November 2003 to March 2007; Senior Vice President, Business Development for GE Capital Vendor Financial Services from February 2002 to October 2003; General Manager for GE Capital Colonial Pacific Leasing from February 2001 to January 2002; and Vice President, Business Development for Potomac Federal, the GE Capital federal financing investment bank from May 1998 to January 2001.

Christopher J. O’Connell,age 48, has been Executive Vice President and Group President, Restorative Therapies Group of the Company since January 2015 and of Medtronic, Inc. since August 2009. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and President, Diabetes from October 2006 to August 2009; President of Medtronic’s Emergency Response Systems division from May 2005 to October 2006; and Vice President of Sales and Marketing of Medtronic’s Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management division from November 2001 to May 2005. Mr. O’Connell has served in various management positions since joining the Company in 1994.

Carol A. Surface, age 49, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company since January 2015 and of Medtronic, Inc. since September 2013. Prior to that, she was the Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Best Buy Co., Inc. from March 2010 to September 2013, and held a series of HR leadership roles at PepsiCo Inc., from May 2000 to March 2010.

Robert ten Hoedt, age 54, has been Executive Vice President and President, EMEAC of the Company since January 2015 and of Medtronic, Inc. since May 2014. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and President, EMEA and Canada from 2009 to 2014; Vice President CardioVascular Europe and Central Asia from 2006 to 2009; Vice President and General Manager, Vitatron from 1999 to 2006; Gastro-Uro leader from 1994 to 1999; and Marketing Manager, Neurological from 1991 to 1994.



