
10-K
FORM 10-K 1994




                                                                    
 


                                    PART I

  Item 1. Business
   
      Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" refers to
  Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc. and its subsidiaries, all references to
  "net sales" refer to gross revenues less excise taxes and returns and
  allowances to conform with the Company's method of classification, and
  all references to the Company's fiscal year shall refer to the year ended
  August 31 of the indicated year. Market share and industry data disclosed
  in this Report have been obtained from the following industry
  publications: Wines & Vines; The Gomberg-Fredrikson Report; Jobson's
  Liquor Handbook; Jobson's Wine Handbook; The U.S. Wine Market: Impact
  Databank Review and Forecast, 1994 Edition; The U.S. Beer Market: Impact
  Databank Review and Forecast, 1994 Edition; Beer Marketer's Insights:
  1994 Import Insights; and 1994 Beer Industry Update. The Company has not
  independently verified this data. References to market share data are
  based on unit volume. 

      The Company is a Delaware corporation organized in 1972 as the
  successor to a business founded in 1945 by Marvin Sands, Chairman of the
  Board of the Company.

      The Company is a leading producer and marketer of branded beverage
  alcohol products, with over 125 national and regional brands which are
  distributed by over 1,000 wholesalers throughout the United States and in
  selected international markets. The Company is the second largest
  supplier of wines, the fourth largest importer of beers and the eighth
  largest supplier of distilled spirits in the United States. The Company's
  beverage alcohol brands are marketed in five general categories: table
  wines, sparkling wines, dessert wines, imported beer and distilled
  spirits, and include the following principal brands:
   
    . Table Wines: Almaden, Inglenook, Paul Masson, Taylor California
  Cellars, Cribari,   
      Manischewitz, Taylor New York, Marcus James, Deer Valley and 
  Dunnewood
   
    . Sparkling Wines: Cook's, J. Roget, Great Western and Taylor New York

    . Dessert Wines: Richards Wild Irish Rose, Cisco, Taylor New York and
      Italian Swiss
      Colony
   
    . Imported Beer: Corona, St. Pauli Girl, Modelo Especial, Tsingtao and
  Pacifico
   
    . Distilled Spirits: Barton's Gin and Vodka, Ten High Bourbon Whiskey,
      Crystal Palace Gin and Vodka, Montezuma Tequila, Northern Light
      Canadian Whisky, Lauder's Scotch Whisky and Monte Alban Mezcal

      Based on available industry data, the Company believes it has a 21%
  share of the wine market, a 10% share of the imported beer market and a
  4% share of the distilled spirits market in the United States. Within the
  wine market, the Company believes it has a 31% share of the non-varietal
  table wine market, a 10% share of the varietal table wine market, a 50%
  share of the dessert wine market and a 32% share of the sparkling wine


  market. Many of the Company's brands are leaders in their respective
  categories in the United States, including Corona, the second largest
  selling imported beer brand, Almaden and Inglenook, the fifth and sixth
  largest selling wine brands, Richards Wild Irish Rose, the largest
  selling dessert wine brand, Cook's champagne, the second largest selling
  sparkling wine brand, Montezuma, the second largest selling tequila
  brand, and Monte Alban, the largest selling mezcal brand.  
   
      During the past four years, the Company has diversified its product
  portfolio through a series of strategic acquisitions that have resulted
  in an increase in the Company's net sales from $176.6 million in fiscal
  1991 to $876.4 million on a pro forma basis in fiscal 1994. Through these
  acquisitions, the Company acquired strong market positions in growing
  product categories in the beverage alcohol industry, such as varietal
  table wine and imported beer. The Company ranks second and fourth in the
  varietal table wine and imported beer categories, respectively. Over the
  past four years, industry shipments of varietal table wine and imported
  beer have grown 64% and 7%, respectively. The Company has successfully
  integrated the acquired businesses into its existing business and
  achieved significant cost reductions through reduced product and
  organizational costs. The Company has also strengthened its relationship
  with wholesalers, expanded its distribution and enhanced its production
  capabilities as well as acquired additional management, operational,
  marketing and research and development expertise.
   
      In October 1991, the Company acquired the Cook's, Cribari, Dunnewood
  and other brands and related facilities and assets (the "Guild
  Acquisition") from Guild Wineries and Distillers ("Guild"), which enabled
  the Company to establish a significant market position in the California
  sparkling wine category and to enter the California table wine market.
  The Company acquired Barton Incorporated ("Barton") in June 1993, further
  diversifying into the imported beer and distilled spirits categories (the
  "Barton Acquisition"). On October 15, 1993, the Company acquired the Paul
  Masson, Taylor California Cellars and other brands and related facilities
  and assets of Vintners International Company, Inc. ("Vintners") (the
  "Vintners Acquisition"). On August 5, 1994, the Company acquired the
  Almaden, Inglenook and other brands, a grape juice concentrate business
  and related facilities and assets (the "Almaden/Inglenook Product Lines")
  from Heublein Inc. (the "Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition," and together
  with the Barton Acquisition and the Vintners Acquisition, the
  "Acquisitions"). See "Recent Acquisitions."
   
      The Company's business strategy is to continue to strengthen its
  market position in each of its principal product lines. Key elements of
  its strategy include: (i) making selective acquisitions in the beverage
  alcohol industry to improve market position and capitalize on growth
  trends within the industry; (ii) improving operating efficiencies through
  reduced product and organizational costs of existing and acquired
  businesses; (iii) capitalizing on strong wholesaler relationships
  resulting from its expanded portfolio of brands; and (iv) expanding
  distribution into new markets and increasing penetration of existing
  markets primarily through line extensions and promotional activities. 
   
      In furtherance of its business strategy of improving operating
  efficiencies of acquired businesses, the Company announced a plan to
  restructure the operations of its California wineries, including a
  consolidation of facilities, centralization of bottling operations and


  reduction of overhead, including the elimination of approximately 260
  jobs (the "Restructuring Plan"). As a result of the Restructuring Plan,
  the Company has taken a charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1994 which
  reduced after-tax income for fiscal 1994 by $14.9 million, or $0.91 per
  share on a fully diluted basis. The Company anticipates that the
  Restructuring Plan will result in net cost savings of approximately $1.7
  million in fiscal 1995 and approximately $13.3 million of annual net cost
  savings beginning in fiscal 1996. See "Management's Discussion and
  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

  RECENT ACQUISITIONS
   
      The Barton Acquisition. On June 29, 1993, the Company acquired all of
  the outstanding shares of capital stock of Barton. Barton is the United
  States' fourth largest importer of beers and eighth largest supplier of
  distilled spirits. The Barton Acquisition has enabled the Company to
  diversify within the beverage alcohol industry by participating in the
  imported beer and distilled spirits markets, which have similar marketing
  approaches and distribution channels to the Company's wine business, and
  to take advantage of the experienced management team that developed
  Barton as a successful company. With this acquisition, the Company
  acquired the right to distribute Corona and Modelo Especial beer in 25
  primarily western states, national distribution rights for St. Pauli Girl
  and Tsingtao and a diversified line of distilled spirits including Barton
  Gin and Vodka, Ten High Bourbon Whiskey and Montezuma Tequila.
   
      Barton is being operated independently by its current management as a
  subsidiary of the Company. Until August 31, 1996, consistent with past
  practices and subject to annual approval by the Company's Board of
  Directors of an annual operating plan for the coming year, Ellis M.
  Goodman, the Chief Executive Officer of Barton, has full and exclusive
  strategic and operational responsibility for Barton and all of its
  subsidiaries.
   
      The Vintners Acquisition. On October 15, 1993, the Company acquired
  substantially all of the assets of Vintners, and assumed certain
  liabilities. Vintners was the United States' fifth largest supplier of
  wine with two of the country's most highly recognized brands, Paul Masson
  and Taylor California Cellars. The Vintners Acquisition enabled the
  Company to expand its wine portfolio to include several large and highly
  recognized table wine brands that are distributed by a substantially
  common wholesaler network. Vintners' operations were immediately
  integrated with those of the Company at the closing of the acquisition.
  With this acquisition, the Company acquired the Paul Masson, Taylor
  California Cellars, Taylor New York, Deer Valley, St. Regis (non-
  alcoholic) and Great Western brands and related facilities.
    
      The Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition. On August 5, 1994, the Company
  acquired the Almaden and Inglenook brands, the fifth and sixth largest
  selling table wines in the United States, a grape juice concentrate
  business, and wineries in Madera and Escalon, California, from Heublein.
  The Company also acquired Belaire Creek Cellars, Chateau La Salle and
  Charles Le Franc table wines, Le Domaine champagne and Almaden, Hartley
  and Jacques Bonet brandy. The accounts receivable and the accounts
  payable related to the acquired assets were not acquired by the Company.  
                                         
   


      As a result of the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition, the Company has
  strengthened its position as the second largest supplier of wines in the
  United States. The acquisition of the Inglenook brand significantly
  expands the Company's restaurant and bar on-premises presence. The
  Company intends to maintain the existing sales force and distribution
  network of the Almaden and Inglenook brands. Further, the
  Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition has resulted in the Company becoming the
  leading grape juice concentrate producer in the United States. The
  Company believes that the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition will enable the
  Company to achieve significant cost savings through the consolidation of
  its California winery operations. 
   
      Heublein also agreed not to compete with the Company in the United
  States and Canada for a period of five years following the closing of the
  Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition in the production and sale of grape juice
  concentrate or sale of packaged wines bearing the designation "Chablis"
  or "Burgundy" except where, among other exceptions, such designations are
  currently used with certain brands retained by Heublein. Certain
  companies acquired by Heublein, however, may compete directly with the
  Company.


  INDUSTRY

      The beverage alcohol industry in the United States consists of the
  production, importation, marketing and distribution of beer, wine and
  distilled spirits products. Over the past five years there has been
  increasing consolidation at the supplier, wholesaler and, in some
  markets, retailer tiers of the beverage alcohol industry. As a result, it
  has become advantageous for certain suppliers to expand their portfolio
  of brands through acquisitions and internal development in order to take
  advantage of economies of scale and to increase their importance to a
  more limited number of wholesalers and, in some markets, retailers. From
  1978 through 1993, the overall per capita consumption of beverage alcohol
  products in the United States has generally declined. However, table
  wines, and in particular varietal table wines, and imported beer
  consumption have increased during the period. 


      The following table sets forth the industry unit volumes for
  shipments of beverage alcohol products in the Company's five principal
  beverage alcohol product categories in the United States for the five
  calendar years ended December 31, 1993:


                                               
  (a) Units are in thousands of gallons. Data exclude sales of wine
  coolers.
  (b) Includes other special natural (flavored) wines under 14% alcohol.
  (c) Includes dessert wines, other special natural (flavored) wines over
      14%
      alcohol and vermouth.
  (d) Units are in thousands of cases (2.25 gallons per case).
  (e) Units are in thousands of 9-liter cases (2.378 gallons per case).
   
      Table Wines. Wines containing 14% or less alcohol by volume are
  generally referred to as table wines. Within this category, table wines
  are further characterized as either "non-varietal" or "varietal." Non-
  varietal wines include wines named after the European regions where
  similar types of wines were originally produced (e.g., burgundy), niche
  products and proprietary brands. Varietal wines are those named for the
  grape that comprises the principal component of the wine. Table wines
  that retail at less than $5.75 per 750 ml. bottle are generally
  considered to be popularly priced while those that retail at $5.75 or
  more per 750 ml. bottle are considered premium wines.
   
      From 1989 to 1993, shipments of domestic table wines increased at an
  average compound annual rate of approximately 1.5%. In 1992, domestic
  table wine shipments increased 8% from the previous year; this rate of
  increase was markedly larger than in previous years and was attributed in
  large part to the November 1991 CBS television 60 Minutes, French Paradox
  broadcast about the healthful benefits of moderate red wine consumption.
  In 1993, domestic table wine shipments declined by 2.3% when compared to
  1992. This decline has been attributed to an overall wholesale and retail
  wine inventory surplus at the end of 1992. Based on shipments of
  California table wines, which constituted approximately 94% of the total
  domestically produced table wine market in 1993, shipments of varietal
  wines have grown at an average compound annual rate of 13.3% since 1989,
  with shipments in the first half of 1994 increasing 16% over the prior
  year. In contrast, shipments of non-varietal table wines have generally
  declined over the same period although they showed a slight increase in


  1992 as compared to 1991. For the first half of calendar 1994, shipments
  of California table wines increased approximately 7% over the same period
  in 1993. Shipments of imported table wines have generally decreased over
  the last six years, decreasing from 58.9 million gallons in 1989 to 52.4
  million gallons in 1993. Imported table wines constituted 15% of the
  United States table wine market in calendar 1993.  

      Dessert Wines. Wines containing more than 14% alcohol by volume are
  generally referred to as dessert wines. Dessert wines generally fall into
  the same price categories as table wines. Dessert wine consumption in the
  United States has been declining for many years reflecting a general
  shift in consumer preferences to table and sparkling wines. For calendar
  year 1993, shipments of domestic dessert wines decreased 9.9% over
  calendar year 1992, a lesser rate than from 1989 to 1993, during which
  period shipments of domestic dessert wines declined at an average
  compound annual rate of 14.2%. Dessert wines, which are generally
  popularly priced, have been adversely affected by the January 1, 1991
  increase in federal excise taxes which had the effect of increasing the
  cost of these products to the consumer disproportionately with certain
  other beverage alcohol products. Shipments of dessert wines continued to
  decline during the first half of calendar 1994 as compared to the first
  half of calendar 1993 as is evidenced by a 7% decline during this period
  in shipments of California dessert wines, which constituted approximately
  73% of the domestically produced dessert wine market in 1993.
   
      Sparkling Wines. Sparkling wines include effervescent wines like
  champagne and spumante. Sparkling wines generally fall into the same
  price categories as table wines. Shipments of sparkling wines declined at
  an average compound annual rate of 2.9% from 1989 to 1993; with shipments
  of domestic sparkling wines declining 0.8% in calendar 1993 as compared
  to calendar 1992. The decline in sparkling wine consumption is believed
  to reflect mounting concerns about drinking and driving, as a large part
  of sparkling wine consumption occurs outside the home at social
  gatherings and restaurants. Shipments of sparkling wines continued to
  decline during the first half of 1994 as compared to the first half of
  1993 as is evidenced by a decline of 12% during this period in shipments
  of California sparkling wines which constituted approximately 92% of the
  domestically produced sparkling wine market in 1993. The Company believes
  that shipments in the first half of 1994 were also adversely affected by
  high levels of retail inventory at the beginning of the period.

      Imported Beer. Shipments of imported beers have increased at an
  average compound annual rate of 1.7% from 1989 to 1993. Shipments of
  Mexican beers in calendar 1993 increased 10.4% over 1992. During the
  first half of calendar 1994 as compared to the corresponding period in
  1993, shipments of Mexican beers increased 14.5% as compared to an
  increase of 19.3% for the entire imported beer category. In 1993,
  imported beers constituted 4.9% of the United States beer market. This
  reflects an increase from 1992 when imported beers constituted 4.4% of
  the United States beer market. Imported beers are generally priced above
  the leading domestic premium brands. This price category also includes
  beers produced by microbreweries and super-premium priced domestic beers.
   
      Distilled Spirits. Shipments of distilled spirits in the United
  States declined at an average compound annual rate of 1.9% from 1989 to
  1993. Although shipments increased slightly in calendar 1992 as compared
  to calendar 1991, shipments again declined in calendar 1993 by 2.6% when


  compared to calendar 1992. Shipments of distilled spirits have been
  affected by many of the same trends evident in the rest of the beverage
  alcohol industry. Over the past five years, whiskey sales have declined
  significantly while sales of rum, tequila, cordials and liqueurs have
  increased. The Company believes that distilled spirits can be divided
  into two general price segments, with distilled spirits selling for less
  than $7.00 a 750 ml. bottle being referred to as price value products and
  those selling for over $7.00 a 750 ml. bottle being referred to as
  premium products.


  PRODUCT CATEGORIES
   
      The Company produces, imports and markets beverage alcohol products
  in five principal product categories: table wines, dessert wines,
  sparkling wines, imported beer and distilled spirits. The table below
  sets forth the unit volumes (in thousands of gallons) and net sales (in
  thousands) for all of the table, dessert and sparkling wines, grape juice
  concentrate and other wine related products and services sold by the
  Company and under brands and products acquired in the Vintners
  Acquisition and the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition for the 1992, 1993 and
  1994 fiscal years.


    (a)   Data for fiscal years ended August 31, 1992, 1993 and 1994. The
          data for the Company's fiscal year ended August 31, 1994 excludes
          the net sales for the brands and other products acquired in the
          Vintners Acquisition and the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition. 
    
    (b)   Data for fiscal years ended July 31, 1992 and 1993 and for the
          twelve months ended August 31, 1994.
    
    (c)   Data for fiscal years ended September 30, 1992 and 1993 and for
          the twelve months ended August 31, 1994. 
   
      Table Wines. The Company sells over 45 different brands of non-
  varietal table wines, substantially all of which are marketed in the
  popularly priced segment which constituted approximately 43% of the
  domestic table wine market in the United States for the 1993 calendar
  year. The Company also sells over 15 different brands of varietal table
  wines in both the popularly priced and premium categories. The table


  below sets forth the unit volumes (in thousands of gallons) for the
  domestic table wines sold by the Company and under domestic table wine
  brands acquired in the Vintners Acquisition and the Almaden/Inglenook
  Acquisition for the 1992, 1993 and 1994 fiscal years:
    
                                           
    (a) Excludes sales of wine coolers but includes sales of wine in bulk.
   
  The Company's table wine brands include:
   
      Almaden: The fifth largest selling table wine brand and the ninth
      largest varietal wine brand in the United States. Almaden is one of
      the oldest and best known table wines in the United States.
   
      Inglenook: The sixth largest selling table wine brand and the seventh
      largest varietal wine in the United States with a significant
      restaurant and bar presence.
   
      Paul Masson: The 11th largest selling table wine brand in the United
      States which is offered in all major varietal and non-varietal
      product categories in a full range of sizes.
   
      Taylor California Cellars: The 14th largest domestic selling table
      wine brand in the United States which is also offered in all major
      varietal and non-varietal product categories in a full range of
      sizes.
   
      Cribari: A well known brand of both varietal and non-varietal table
      wines marketed in the popularly priced segment.
   
      Manischewitz: The largest selling brand of kosher wine in the United
      States.
   


      Taylor New York: One of the United States' oldest brands of non-
      varietal wine marketed primarily in the eastern half of the United
      States.
   
      Richards Wild Irish Rose: A brand of table wine possessing unique
      taste characteristics which is a line extension of the nation's
      leading dessert wine brand.
   
      Deer Valley: This line of California varietal and non-varietal table
      wines introduced in 1989 has had significant success in California.
      The Company is in the process of introducing this brand in other
      regions of the country.
   
      Cook's: This varietal wine was created to take advantage of the brand
      recognition associated with Cook's sparkling wines.
   
      Dunnewood: From California's north coast, unit volumes of this
      varietal wine have also increased significantly. This brand is
      marketed at the lower end of the premium price category.

      The Company has pursued a strategy of increasing its unit volume
  sales in the table wine segment by acquiring new brands and by growing
  existing brands. The Company's unit volume sales of non-varietal table
  wines increased from approximately 9.3 million gallons in fiscal 1992 to
  approximately 52.6 million gallons on a pro forma basis for fiscal 1994
  as a result of the Vintners Acquisition and the Almaden/Inglenook
  Acquisition. Likewise, the Company's unit volume sales of varietal table
  wines increased from approximately 1.1 million gallons in fiscal 1992 to
  over 12.8 million gallons on a pro forma basis for fiscal 1994 as a
  result of the Vintners Acquisition and the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition.
  The Company believes that its recent acquisition of the Almaden/Inglenook
  Product Lines, including the Almaden and Inglenook brands, creates
  additional opportunities for growth in this product category.
   
      The 1993 decrease in unit volume of Vintners' table wines resulted
  from a number of factors including a significant decrease in Vintners'
  expenditures for advertising, promotion and selling activities during the
  three year period ended July 31, 1993. The Company believes that this
  decrease resulted in a reduction in the level of wholesaler attention
  paid to Vintners' brands, and the Company believes that certain of
  Vintners' products were not competitively priced. During the Company's
  fiscal 1994, unit volume sales of Vintners table wines continued to
  decline. During fiscal 1994, the Company implemented steps to address
  this decline, including a reduction in prices for its Taylor California
  brands, the implementation of new promotional programs and repackaging of
  selected products. As a result of these efforts, the Company believes
  that sales of Vintners' brands have begun to stabilize.  

      The Company also markets a selection of popularly priced imported
  table wines.  These brands include:
   
      Marcus James: One of the largest selling imported varietal wines in
      the United States. Marcus James is a line of varietal table wines
      which includes white zinfandel, chardonnay, cabernet sauvignon and
      merlot. The  Company owns the Marcus James brand and contracts for
      its production in Brazil.
   


      Partager: A popularly priced French table wine with both varietal and
      non-varietal products. The Company owns the Partager brand and
      contracts for its production in France.
   
      Mateus: The second largest selling Portuguese table wine and a highly
      recognized brand name. This brand is imported by the Company under a
      distribution agreement.
   
      The Company's unit volume sales of imported wine increased steadily
  from 1.3 million gallons in fiscal 1992 to 1.9 million gallons in fiscal
  1994. This increase is attributable primarily to increased sales of the
  Marcus James brand and the inclusion of a full year of Mateus sales.
  Including sales of Partager by Vintners prior to its acquisition by the
  Company, on a pro forma basis for fiscal 1994, the Company sold
  approximately 2.0 million gallons of imported table wines.

      Dessert Wines. The Company markets substantially all of its dessert
  wines in the lower end of the popularly priced segment. The popularly
  priced segment represented approximately 88% of the dessert wine market
  in calendar 1993. Sales of dessert wines comprised 10.2% of the Company's
  total revenues during the fiscal year ended August 31, 1994, on a pro
  forma basis. The table below sets forth the unit volumes (in thousands of
  gallons) for the domestic dessert wines sold by the Company and under
  domestic dessert wine brands acquired in the Vintners Acquisition for the
  1992, 1993 and 1994 fiscal years: 


      The Company's dessert wines include:
   
      Richards Wild Irish Rose: The largest selling dessert wine brand in
      the United States and the Company's leading dessert wine brand in
      unit volume sales.
   
      Cisco: The fourth largest selling dessert wine brand in the United
      States.  Cisco is a flavored dessert wine positioned higher in price
      than Richards Wild Irish Rose.
   
  Taylor New York: Premium dessert wines, including port and sherry.
   
      The Company's unit volume sales of dessert wines have declined over
  the last three years. The decline can be attributed to a general decline
  in dessert wine consumption in the United States.  The Company's unit
  volume sales of its dessert wine brands (including the brands acquired
  from Vintners) have decreased 26.9% from fiscal 1992 to fiscal 1994.
   
      Sparkling Wines. The Company markets substantially all of its
  sparkling wines in the popularly priced segment, which constituted


  approximately 48% of the domestic sparkling wine market in calendar 1993.
  The table below sets forth the unit volumes (in thousands of gallons) for
  the domestic sparkling wines sold by the Company and under domestic
  sparking wine brands acquired in the Vintners Acquisition and the
  Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition for the 1992, 1993 and 1994 fiscal years:


      The Company's sparkling wine brands include:
   
      Cook's: The second largest selling domestic sparkling wine in the
      United States. This brand of champagne is marketed in a bell shaped
      bottle and is cork-finished, packaging generally associated with
      higher priced products.
   
      J. Roget: The sixth largest selling domestic sparkling wine in the
      United States, priced slightly below Cook's.
   
      Great Western: A premium priced champagne, fermented in the bottle.
   
      Taylor New York: A well known premium priced champagne also fermented
      in the bottle.
   
      Codorniu: The second largest Spanish sparkling wine imported in the
      United States; sold in the premium price category.
   
      Jacques Bonet: Priced in the economy segment, this product appeals to
      restaurants and caterers.
   
      The Company has maintained sales levels of sparkling wine over the
  last three years in contrast to a general industry decline in sales for
  this product category.
   
      Grape Juice Concentrate. As part of its wine business, the Company
  produces grape juice concentrate. Grape juice concentrate is sold to the
  food and wine industries as a raw material for the production of juice-
  based products, no-sugar-added foods and beverages. Grape juice
  concentrate competes with other domestically produced and imported fruit-
  based concentrates. As a result of the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition, the
  Company believes that it is the leading grape juice concentrate producer
  in the United States. Sales of grape juice concentrate accounted for
  approximately 11% and 12% of the Company's net sales for its fiscal years
  ended 1992 and 1993, respectively.  The table below sets forth the unit
  volumes (in thousands of gallons) for the grape juice concentrate sold by
  the Company and the grape juice concentrate business acquired in the
  Almaden/Inglenook Product Lines for the 1992, 1993 and 1994 fiscal years:



      Other Wine Product and Related Services. The Company's other wine
  related products and services include: grape juice; St. Regis, the
  leading non-alcoholic line of wines in the United States; Paul Masson and
  other brandies; wine coolers sold primarily under the Sun Country brand
  name; cooking wine; and wine for the production of vinegar. The Company
  also provides various bottling and distillation production services for
  third parties.
   
      Beer. The Company is the fourth largest marketer of imported beers in
  the United States. The Company distributes Corona, St. Pauli Girl, Modelo
  Especial and Tsingtao, four of the top imported beer brands in the United
  States. The table below sets forth the unit volume (in thousands of
  cases) and net sales (in thousands) for the beer sold by Barton for the
  years ended August 31:

  
           1992                  1993                  1994

      NET      VOLUME       NET      VOLUME       NET      VOLUME
     SALES                 SALES                SALES 

    $131,868     10,152   $158,359     12,422   $173,883     14,100


       The Company's principal imported beer brands include:
   
      Corona: The number one selling beer in Mexico and the second largest
      selling imported beer in the United States. In addition, the Company
      believes that Corona is the largest selling import in the territory
      in which it is distributed by the Company. The Company has
      represented the supplier of Corona since 1978 and currently sells
      Corona and its related Mexican beer brands in 25 primarily western
      states.
   
      St. Pauli Girl: The 15th largest selling imported beer in the United
      States, and the second largest selling German import.
   
      Modelo Especial: One of the family of products imported from the
      supplier of Corona, Modelo Especial is the number one selling canned
      beer in Mexico and is growing in the United States with 1994
      shipments into the United States increasing by 57% over 1993
      shipments in the same period.
   
      Tsingtao: The largest selling Chinese beer in the United States.
   
      The Company's other imported beer brands include Pacifico and Negra
  Modelo from Mexico, Peroni from Italy and Double Diamond from the United


  Kingdom. In September 1992 the Company acquired the Stevens Point
  Brewery, a regional brewer located in Wisconsin, together with its brands
  including Point Special.

      Net sales and unit volumes of the Company's beer brands have grown
  during the previous two fiscal years as a result of the acquisition of
  the St. Pauli Girl and Double Diamond brands on July 1, 1992, the
  acquisition of the Point brands in September 1992 and increased sales of
  Corona and the Company's other Mexican beer brands. The Company's selling
  prices were not increased significantly over this time period.
   
      Distilled Spirits. The Company is the eighth largest producer,
  importer and marketer of distilled spirits in the United States. The
  Company produces, bottles, imports and markets a diversified line of
  quality distilled spirits, and also exports distilled spirits to more
  than 15 foreign countries. The table below sets forth the unit volumes
  (in thousands of 9-liter cases) and net sales (in thousands) for the
  distilled products case goods sold by Barton for the years ended August
  31:


           1992                  1993                 1994

      NET      VOLUME       NET      VOLUME      NET       VOLUME
     SALES                 SALES                SALES

    $82,677     5,609     $82,270    5,529     $81,367     5,370


      The Company's leading distilled spirits brands include:
   
      Monte Alban: A premium priced product which the Company believes is
      the number one selling mezcal in the United States.
   
      Montezuma: This brand is the number two selling tequila in the United
  States.
   
      Ten High Bourbon: One of the leading bourbon brands in the United
  States.
   
      Barton Gin and Vodka: Well-known leading national brands.
   
      Other products include Crystal Palace Gin and Vodka, Lauder's, House
  of Stuart and Highland Mist Scotch whiskeys, Kentucky Gentleman, Very Old
  Barton and Tom Moore bourbon whiskeys, Sabroso coffee liqueur, Northern
  Light, Canadian Host and Canadian Supreme Canadian whiskeys and Imperial,
  Barton Reserve and Barton Premium blended whiskeys. Substantially all of
  the Company's unit volume consists of products marketed in the price
  value segment, which the Company believes constituted approximately 50%
  of the distilled spirits market in calendar 1993.
   
      Net sales and unit volumes of the Company's distilled
  spirits brands have decreased 1.6% and 4.3%, respectively,
  over the periods shown, there
  have been changes in sales of particular brands. Unit volumes of vodka
  and tequila have increased while Scotch and bourbon have experienced


  decreases in unit volume. Net sales have generally not been affected by
  price increases.
   
      In addition to the branded products described above, the Company also
  sells distilled spirits in bulk and provides contract production and
  bottling services. These activities accounted for net sales during the 12
  month periods ended August 31, 1992, 1993 and 1994 of $11.8 million,
  $10.6 million and $7.0 million, respectively.

  Marketing and Distribution

      The Company's products are distributed and sold throughout the United
  States through over 1,000 wholesalers, as well as through state alcoholic
  beverage control agencies. The Company employs a full-time in-house sales
  organization of approximately 350 people to develop and service its sales
  to wholesalers and state agencies. The Company's sales force is organized
  in four sales units: a beer unit, a spirits unit and two wine units, one
  of which focuses on the newly acquired brands purchased in the
  Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition. The Company believes that the organization
  of its sales force into four divisions positions it to maintain a high
  degree of focus on each of its principal product categories.
   
       The Company's marketing strategy places primary emphasis upon
  promotional programs directed at its broad national distribution network
  (and to the retailers served by that network). The Company closely
  manages its advertising expenditures in relation to the performance of
  its brands. The Company has extensive marketing programs for its brands
  including television, radio, outdoor and print advertising, promotional
  programs on both a national basis and regional basis in accordance with
  the strength of the brands, event sponsorship, market research, point-of-
  sale materials, trade advertising and public relations.

  Trademarks and Distribution Agreements

      The Company's wine products are sold under a number of trademarks.
  All of these trademarks are either owned by the Company or used by the
  Company under exclusive license or distribution agreements.
   
      The Company also owns the following trademarks used in its distilled
  spirits business: Montezuma, House of Stuart, Highland Mist, Kentucky
  Gentleman, Barton, Canadian Supreme and Sabroso. The Monte Alban
  trademark for use outside of Mexico is jointly owned by the Company and
  the supplier of Monte Alban Mezcal. The Company owns the world-wide sales
  and marketing rights outside of Mexico.  

      In September 1989, Barton purchased certain assets from Hiram Walker
  & Sons, Inc. ("Hiram Walker") and obtained licenses to use the trade
  names Ten High, Crystal Palace, Northern Light, Lauder's, and Imperial
  for an initial seven year period. Under an agreement dated January 28,
  1994, the Company paid $5.1 million to Hiram Walker for the extension of
  licenses to use these brand names and certain other spirits brands, for
  varying periods, the longest of which terminates in 2116.
   
      All of the Company's imported beer products are marketed and sold
  pursuant to exclusive distribution agreements from the suppliers of these
  products. These agreements have terms that vary and prohibit the Company
  from importing other beers from the same country. The Company's agreement


  to distribute Corona and its other Mexican beer brands exclusively
  throughout 25 states was renewed effective January 1994 and expires in
  December 1998 with automatic renewal thereafter for one year periods from
  year to year unless terminated. Under this agreement, the Mexican
  supplier has the right to consent to Mr. Goodman's successor as Chairman
  and Chief Executive Officer of Barton's beer subsidiary, which consent
  may not be unreasonably withheld, and, if such consent is properly
  withheld, to terminate the agreement. The Company's agreement for the
  importation of St. Pauli Girl expires in 1998 with automatic renewal
  until 2003 unless the Company terminates the Agreement. The Company's
  agreement for
  the exclusive importation of Tsingtao throughout the entire United States
  was renewed effective January 1994 and expires in December 1996 with an
  automatic renewal to December 1999.  Prior to their expiration, these
  agreements may be terminated if the Company fails to meet certain
  performance criteria. The Company believes it is currently in compliance
  with all of its material distribution agreements. Given the Company's
  long-term relationships with its suppliers, the Company does not believe
  that these agreements will be terminated and expects that such agreements
  will be renewed prior to their expiration.

  COMPETITION
   
      The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. The Company
  competes on the basis of quality, price, brand recognition and
  distribution. The Company's beverage alcohol products compete with other
  alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as
  shelf space in retail stores and for marketing focus by the Company's
  wholesalers. The Company competes with numerous multinational producers
  and distributors of beverage alcohol products, many of which have
  significantly greater resources than the Company. The Company's principal
  competitors include E&J Gallo Winery in the wine category, Van Munching &
  Co., Molson Breweries USA and Guinness in the imported beer category and
  United Distillers Glenmore and Jim Beam Brands in the distilled spirits
  category.

  PRODUCTION
   
      The Company's wines are produced from several varieties of wine
  grapes grown principally in California and New York. The grapes are
  crushed at the Company's wineries and stored as wine, grape juice or
  concentrate. Such grape products may be made into wine for sale under the
  Company's brand names, sold to other companies for resale under their own
  labels, or shipped to customers in the form of juice, juice concentrate,
  unfinished wines, high-proof grape spirits or brandy. Most of the
  Company's wines are bottled and sold within 18 months after the grape
  crush. The Company's inventories of wines, grape juice and concentrate
  are usually at their highest levels in November and December, immediately
  after the crush of each year's grape harvest, and are substantially
  reduced prior to the subsequent year's crush.
   
      The bourbon whiskeys, domestic blended whiskeys and light whiskeys
  marketed by the Company are primarily produced and aged by the Company at
  its distillery in Bardstown, Kentucky, though it may from time to time
  supplement its inventories through purchases from other distillers. At
  its Atlanta, Georgia facility, the Company produces all of the grain
  neutral spirits used by it in the production of vodka, gin and blended
  whiskey sold by it to customers in the state of Georgia. The Company's


  requirements of Canadian and Scotch whiskeys, and tequila, mezcal, and
  the grain neutral spirits used by it in the production of gin and vodka
  for sale outside of Georgia, and other spirits products, are purchased
  from various suppliers.

  Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

      The principal components in the production of the Company's branded
  beverage alcohol products are: packaging materials, primarily glass;
  grapes; and other agricultural products, such as grain.

       The Company utilizes glass bottles and other materials, such as
  caps, corks, capsules, labels and cardboard cartons in the bottling and
  packaging of its products. Glass bottle costs is one of the largest
  components of the Company's cost of product sold. The glass bottle
  industry is highly concentrated with only a small number of producers.
  The Company has traditionally obtained, and continues to obtain, its
  glass requirements from a limited number of producers. The Company has
  not experienced difficulty in satisfying its requirements with respect to
  any of the foregoing and considers its sources of supply to be adequate.
  However, the inability of any of the Company's glass bottle suppliers to
  satisfy the Company's requirements could adversely affect the Company's
  operations. 
   
      Most of the Company's annual grape requirements are satisfied by
  purchases from each year's harvest, which occurs from July through
  October. The Company owns no vineyards in California and purchases grapes
  from over 1,000 independent growers principally in California and New
  York. In connection with the Vintners Acquisition and the
  Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition, the Company acquired certain long term
  grape purchase contracts. The Company enters into written purchase
  agreements with a majority of these growers on a year-to-year basis. As a
  result of this ample grape supply the Company believes that its exposure
  to phylloxera and other agricultural risks is minimal.
   
      The distilled spirits manufactured by the Company require various
  agricultural products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits. The
  Company fulfills its requirements through purchases from various sources,
  through contractual arrangements and through purchases on the open
  market. The Company believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned
  products are available at the present time.
   
  GOVERNMENT REGULATION

      The Company's operations are subject to extensive federal and state
  regulation. These regulations cover, among other matters, sales
  promotion, advertising and public relations, labeling and packaging,
  changes in officers or directors, ownership or control, distribution
  methods and relationships, and requirements regarding brand registration
  and the posting of prices and price changes. All of the Company's
  facilities are also subject to federal, state and local environmental
  laws and regulations and the Company is required to obtain permits and
  licenses to operate its facilities. The Company believes that it is in
  compliance in all material respects with all presently applicable
  governmental laws and regulations and that the cost of administration of
  compliance with such laws and regulations does not have, and is not


  expected to have, a material adverse impact on the Company's financial
  condition or results of operations. 

  EMPLOYEES

       The Company has approximately 2,650 full-time employees,
  approximately 900 of whom are covered by collective bargaining
  agreements. The Company's collective bargaining agreement covering 368
  employees at the Mission Bell winery has expired and negotiations have
  commenced. Additional workers may be employed by the Company during the
  grape crushing season. The Company considers its employee relations to be
  good.

  Item 2. PROPERTIES

      The Company currently operates 15 wineries, two bottling and
  distilling plants, one bottling and rectifying plant and a brewery, all
  of which include warehousing and distribution facilities on the premises.
  The Company considers its principal facilities to be the Mission Bell
  winery in Madera, California, the Canandaigua, New York winery, and the
  Gonzales, California winery and the distilling and bottling facility
  located in Bardstown, Kentucky. Under the Restructuring Plan, the Central
  Cellars winery located in Lodi, California and the Soledad, California
  winery will be closed and offered for sale to reduce excess capacity.
   
       In New York, the Company operates four wineries located in
  Canandaigua, Naples, Batavia and Hammondsport. The Hammondsport winery
  lease, acquired in the Vintners Acquisition, expires in April 1995.
  Production at this winery will be consolidated at the Company's other New
  York wineries.
   
       The Company currently operates 11 winery facilities in California,
  including Central Cellars and Soledad Cellars which are to be closed. In
  the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition, the Company acquired two new
  facilities located in Escalon and Madera, California. The Madera winery
  (known as the Mission Bell winery) is a crushing, wine production,
  bottling and distribution facility and a grape juice concentrate
  production facility. The Mission Bell winery will absorb the production
  of Central Cellars. The Escalon facility is operated under a long-term
  lease with an option to buy. As part of the Restructuring Plan, the
  branded wine bottling operations at the Gonzales, California facility
  where Paul Masson and Taylor Cellars are currently bottled will be moved
  to the Mission Bell winery during fiscal 1995. The other wineries
  operated in California are located in Lodi, McFarland, Madera, Fresno and
  Ukiah.
   
      The Company operates three facilities that produce and/or bottle and
  store distilled spirits. It owns production, bottling and storage
  facilities in Bardstown, Kentucky and Atlanta, Georgia, and operates a
  bottling plant in Carson, California, near Los Angeles, under a
  management contract. The Bardstown facility distills, bottles and
  warehouses whiskey for the Company's account and on a contractual basis
  for other participants in the industry. The Company also owns a
  production plant in Atlanta, Georgia which produces vodka, gin and
  blended whiskeys. The Carson plant receives distilled spirits in bulk
  from Bardstown and outside vendors, which it bottles and distributes. The
  Company also performs contract bottling at the Carson plant.


   
      The Company owns a brewery in Stevens Point, Wisconsin where it
  produces and bottles Point beer. In addition, the Company owns and
  maintains its corporate headquarters in Canandaigua, New York, and leases
  office space in Chicago, Illinois, for its Barton headquarters.
   
      The Company believes that all of its facilities are in good condition
  and working order and have adequate capacity to meet its needs for the
  foreseeable future.
   
       Most of the Company's real property has been pledged under the terms
  of collateral security mortgages as security for the payment of
  outstanding loans under the Credit Facility.



  Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
   
      The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to litigation from time
  to time in the ordinary course of business. Although the amount of any
  liability with respect to such litigation cannot be determined, in the
  opinion of management, such liability will not have a material adverse
  effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
   
       In connection with an investigation in the State of New Jersey into
  regulatory trade practices in the beverage alcohol industry, one employee
  of the Company was arrested in March 1994 and another employee has
  subsequently come under investigation in connection with providing "free
  goods" to retailers in violation of New Jersey beverage alcohol laws.
  Employees of several wholesalers and other alcoholic beverage
  manufacturers were also arrested or are under active investigation.
  Although the New Jersey Attorney General's office may expand its criminal
  investigation to include the Company and other manufacturers, to date, no
  grand jury subpoenas have been issued and no charges have been brought.
  The Company has cooperated with the Attorney General's office and, as a
  result of extensive discussions, the Attorney General's office has
  requested and the Company has submitted a detailed proposal to achieve a
  resolution of all civil, criminal and regulatory issues. The Company does
  not believe that the dollar amount of such a settlement or its effect on
  the Company's operations, if any, will be material.
   
       The United States Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") and
  the Georgia Environmental Protection Division (the "GEPD") conducted
  a Compliance Evaluation Inspection ("CEI") of Barton Brands of Georgia,
  Inc. ("Barton Georgia"), a subsidiary of Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.,
  on February 15, 1994.  The CEI was conducted to determine compliance with
  the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA").  Following the
  inspection, the EPA sent a report of its findings together with a
  transmittal letter, dated March 7, 1994, to Barton Georgia.  

      By letter dated March 21, 1994, the GEPD implemented enforcement
  action by serving Barton Georgia with a formal Notice of Violation
  alleging that between August 1991 and August 1993, Barton Georgia has
  violated certain regulations pertaining to (i) generation and
  accumulation of hazardous waste and (ii) hazardous waste burning in
  boilers.  These alleged violations relate to the burning of fusel oil
  which is a mixture of alcohols created by the distillation process used


  in manufacturing various types of liquor products.  Accompanying the
  Notice of Violation was a proposed settlement agreement in the form of a
  Consent Order between the GEPD and Barton Georgia.  Following
  counterproposals, on October 21,
  1994, Barton Georgia entered into a settlement agreement under the terms
  of a final Consent Order (the "Order") with the GEPD with respect to this
  matter.  Under the Order, Barton Georgia has paid a stipulated civil
  penalty of $99,000, and will incur approximately $16,000 of other costs.
  Barton
  Georgia is not burning fusel oil in its current operations.  The signing
  of the settlement agreement by Barton Georgia does not constitute any finding,
  determination or adjudication of liabiity on the part of Barton Georgia,
  nor any finding, determination or adjudication of a violation of any State
  or Federal laws, rules, standards or requirements; nor did Barton Georgia
  make any admission with respect thereto by signing the settlement agreement.

  Executive Officers of the Company 

      The following table sets forth information with respect to the
  executive officers of  the Company:    


  NAME                AGE     OFFICE HELD


  Marvin Sands        70      Chairman of the Board
  Richard Sands       43      President and Chief Executive Officer 
  Robert Sands        36      Executive Vice President and General Counsel
  Ellis M. Goodman    57      Executive Vice President of the Company   and
                              Chief Executive Officer of Barton
                              Incorporated
  Lynn K. Fetterman   47      Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
                              Officer and  Secretary
  Chris Kalabokes     47      Senior Vice President, President of Wine
                              Division
  Bertram E. Silk     62      Senior Vice President

      Marvin Sands is the founder of the Company, which is the successor to
  a business he started in 1945. He has been a director of the Company and
  its predecessor since 1946 and was Chief Executive Officer until October
  1993. Marvin Sands is the father of Richard Sands and Robert Sands.
   
       Richard Sands, Ph.D. has been employed by the Company in various
  capacities since 1979. He was elected Executive Vice President and a
  director in 1982, became President and Chief Operating Officer in May
  1986 and was elected Chief Executive Officer in October 1993. He is a son
  of Marvin Sands and the brother of Robert Sands.
   
      Robert Sands was appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel
  in October 1993. He was elected a director of the Company in January 1990
  and served as Vice President, General Counsel since June 1990. From June
  1986, until his appointment as Vice President, General Counsel, Mr. Sands
  was employed by the Company as General Counsel. He is a son of Marvin
  Sands and the brother of Richard Sands.

      Ellis M. Goodman has been a director and Vice President since July
  1993 and was elected Executive Vice President in October 1993. Mr.
  Goodman has been Chief Executive Officer of Barton Incorporated since


  1987 and Chief Executive Officer of Barton Brands, Ltd. (predecessor to
  Barton Incorporated) since 1982.
    
      Lynn K. Fetterman joined the Company during April 1990 as its Vice
  President, Finance and Administration, Secretary and Treasurer and was
  elected Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary in
  October 1993. For more than 10 years prior to that, he was employed by
  Reckitt and Colman in various executive capacities, including Vice
  President, Finance of its Airwick Industries Division and Vice President,
  Finance of its Durkee-French Foods Division. Mr. Fetterman's most recent
  position with Reckitt and Colman was as its Vice President-Controller.
  Reckitt and Colman's principal business relates to consumer food and
  household products.

      Chris Kalabokes joined the Company during October 1991 as President
  and Chief Executive Officer of the Company's Guild Wineries &
  Distilleries, Inc. subsidiary. During September 1992, he was appointed to
  the position of Vice President, President of the Wine Division of the
  Company and in October 1993 was appointed a Senior Vice President. For
  more than five years prior to joining the Company, he was employed by
  Guild. Mr. Kalabokes joined Guild in April 1985 as its Chief Financial
  Officer and continued in that position until June 1987 when he was
  promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer.

      Bertram E. Silk has been a director and Vice President of the Company
  since 1973 and was elected Senior Vice President in October 1993. He has
  been employed by the Company since 1965. Currently, Mr. Silk is in charge
  of the Company's grape grower relations in California. Before moving from
  Canandaigua, New York to California in 1989, Mr. Silk was in charge of
  production for the Company. From 1989 to August 1994, Mr. Silk was in
  charge of the Company's grape juice concentrate business in California. 



                                   PART II


  Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters.

      The Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are
  quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbols "WINEA" and
  "WINEB", respectively.  The following table sets forth for the periods
  indicated the high and low sales prices of the Class A Common Stock and
  the Class B Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market.  



  Property, plant and equipment -
  Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost.  Major additions and
  betterments are charged to property accounts, while maintenance and
  repairs are charged to operations as incurred.  The cost of properties
  sold or otherwise disposed of and the related allowance for depreciation
  are eliminated from the accounts at the time of disposal and resulting
  gains or losses are included as a component of operating income.

  Other assets -
  Other assets which consist of goodwill, distribution rights, agency
  license agreements, trademarks, deferred financing costs, cash surrender
  value of officers' life insurance and other amounts, are stated at cost,
  net of accumulated amortization.  Amortization is calculated on a
  straight-line or effective interest basis over periods ranging from five
  to forty years.  At August 31, 1994, the weighted average of the
  remaining useful lives of these assets was approximately thirty-five
  years.  The face value of the officers' life insurance policies totaled
  $2,852,000 in both 1994 and 1993.

  Depreciation -
  Depreciation is computed primarily using the straight-line method over
  the following estimated useful lives:

          Description                         Depreciable Life
      Buildings and improvements              10 to 33 1/3 years
      Machinery and equipment                 7 to 15 years
      Motor vehicles                          3 to 7 years

  Amortization of assets capitalized under capital leases is included with
  depreciation expense.  Amortization is calculated using the straight-line
  method over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the
  lease term.

  Income taxes -


  The Company uses the liability method of accounting for income taxes. 
  The liability method accounts for deferred income taxes by applying
  statutory rates in effect at the balance sheet date to the difference
  between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities. 
  In fiscal 1992, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
  Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" which replaced Statement
  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 96, which was the standard the
  Company previously used.  The cumulative effect of this change in
  accounting principle was not material to the Company's financial
  statements and was included in the fiscal 1992 tax provision.

  Environmental -
  Environmental expenditures that relate to current operations are expensed
  or capitalized as appropriate.  Expenditures that relate to an existing
  condition caused by past operations, and which do not contribute to
  current or future revenue generation, are expensed.  Liabilities are
  recorded when environmental assessments and/or remedial efforts are
  probable, and the cost can be reasonably estimated.  Generally, the
  timing of these accruals coincides with completion of a feasibility study
  or the Company's commitment to a formal plan of action.  At August
  31,1994 and 1993, liabilities for environmental costs of $100,000 and
  $1,300,000, respectively, are recorded in other accrued liabilities.

  Common stock -
  The Company has two classes of common stock: Class A Common Stock and
  Class B Common Stock.  Class B Common Stock shares are convertible into
  shares of Class A Common Stock on a one-to-one basis at any time at the
  option of the holder.  Holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to
  ten votes per share.  Holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to
  only one vote per share but are entitled to a cash dividend premium.  If
  the Company pays a cash dividend on Class B Common Stock, each share of
  Class A Common Stock will receive an amount at least ten percent greater
  than the amount of the cash dividend per share paid on Class B Common
  Stock.  In addition, the Board of Directors may declare and pay a
  dividend on Class A Common Stock without paying any dividend on Class B
  Common Stock.

  On September 26, 1991 and June 1, 1992, the Company approved
  three-for-two stock splits of both Class A and Class B Common Stock to
  stockholders of record on October 11, 1991 and June 22, 1992,
  respectively.  All references in the consolidated financial statements to
  weighted average number of shares and issued shares have been
  retroactively restated to reflect the splits (see Note 10).

  Net income per common and common equivalent share -
  Primary net income per common and common equivalent share is based on the
  weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares (stock
  options and stock appreciation rights determined under the treasury stock
  method) outstanding during the year for Class A Common Stock and Class B
  Common Stock.  Fully diluted earnings per common and common equivalent
  share assumes the conversion of the 7% convertible subordinated
  debentures under the "if converted method" and assumes exercise of stock
  options and stock appreciation rights using the treasury stock method.

  All share and per share amounts have been adjusted for the three-for-two
  stock splits (see Note 10).


  2. ACQUISITIONS:

  Guild -
  On October 1, 1991, the Company acquired Cook's, Cribari, Dunnewood and
  other brands and substantially all of the assets and assumed certain
  liabilities (the Guild Acquisition) from Guild Wineries and Distilleries
  (Guild).  The assets acquired included accounts receivable, inventories,
  property, plant and equipment and other assets.  The Company also assumed
  certain liabilities consisting primarily of accounts payable.  The
  aggregate purchase price, after adjustments based on a post-closing
  audit, was approximately $69,300,000.  With respect to the purchase
  price, the Company paid approximately $59,400,000 in cash at closing,
  assumed liabilities of approximately $11,400,000 of which approximately
  $1,600,000 was discharged immediately and, based upon the results of a
  post-closing audit, received from Guild during October 1992 approximately
  $1,500,000, exclusive of accrued interest.  The Company also paid
  approximately $2,700,000 of direct acquisition costs and $2,600,000 in
  escrow to finance the purchase of grapes related to Guild's 1991 grape
  harvest.

  The Guild Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method;
  accordingly, the assets and liabilities of Guild have been recorded at
  their estimated fair market value at the date of acquisition.  The excess
  of purchase price over the estimated fair market value of the net assets
  acquired (goodwill), $1,344,000, is being amortized on a straight-line
  basis over forty years.  The results of operations of Guild have been
  included in the Consolidated Statements of Income since the date of
  acquisition.

  Barton -
  On June 29, 1993, pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement
  (the Stock Purchase Agreement) among the Company, Barton Incorporated
  (Barton) and the Selling Stockholders, the Company acquired from the
  Selling Stockholders all of the outstanding shares of the capital stock
  of Barton (the Barton Acquisition),
  a marketer of imported beers and imported distilled spirits
  and a producer and marketer of distilled spirits and domestic beers.

  The aggregate consideration for Barton consisted of approximately
  $65,510,000 in cash, one million shares of the Company's Class A Common
  Stock and payments of up to an aggregate amount of $57,300,000 (the
  Earn-Out Amounts) which are payable to the Selling Stockholders in cash
  over a three year period upon the satisfaction of certain performance
  goals.  In addition, the Company paid approximately $1,981,000 of direct
  acquisition costs, $2,269,000 of direct financing costs, and assumed
  liabilities of approximately $47,926,000.

  The purchase price was funded through a $50,000,000 term loan (see Note
  7), through $18,835,000 of revolving loans under the Company's Credit
  Agreement (see Note 7), and through approximately $925,000 of accrued
  expenses.  In addition, one million shares of the Company's Class A
  Common Stock were issued at $13.59 per share, which reflects the closing
  market price of the stock at the closing date, discounted for certain
  restrictions on the issued shares.  Of these shares, 428,571 were 
  delivered to the Selling Stockholders and 571,429 were delivered into
  escrow to secure the Selling Stockholders' indemnification obligations to
  the Company.  Subsequent to year end, the 571,429 shares were released
  from escrow and delivered to the Selling Stockholders.


  The Earn-Out Amounts consist of four payments scheduled to be made over a
  three year period ending November 29, 1996.  The first payment of
  $4,000,000 is required to be made to the Selling Stockholders upon
  satisfaction of certain performance goals.  These goals have been
  satisfied and this payment was accrued at August 31, 1993 and was made on
  December 31, 1993.  The second payment of $28,300,000 has been accrued at
  August 31, 1994 and will be made to the Selling Stockholders on December
  30, 1994, as a result of satisfaction of certain performance goals and
  the achievement of targets for earnings before interest and taxes at
  August 31, 1994.  These additional payments have been properly accounted
  for as additional purchase price for the Barton acquisition.  The
  remaining payments are contingent upon Barton achieving and exceeding
  certain targets for earnings before interest and taxes and certain other
  performance goals and are to be made as follows: up to $10,000,000 is to
  be made on November 30, 1995; and up to $15,000,000 is to be made on
  November 29, 1996.  Such payment obligations are secured in part by the
  Company's standby irrevocable letter of credit (see Note 7) under the
  Credit Agreement in an original maximum face amount of $28,200,000 and
  are subject to acceleration in certain events as defined in the Stock
  Purchase Agreement.  All Earn-Out amounts will be accounted for as
  additional purchase price for the Barton acquisition when the contingency
  has been satisfied in accordance with the Stock Purchase Agreement and
  allocated based upon the fair market value of the underlying assets.

  Pursuant to Barton's Phantom Stock Plan (the Phantom Stock Plan)
  effective April 1, 1990 and amended and restated for Units (as defined in
  the Phantom Stock Plan) granted after March 31, 1992, certain
  participants received payments at closing amounting in the aggregate to
  $1,959,000 in connection with the Barton acquisition.  Certain other
  participants will receive payments only upon vesting in the Phantom Stock
  Plan during years subsequent to the acquisition.  All participants under
  the Phantom Stock Plan may receive additional payments in the event of
  satisfaction of the performance goals set forth in the Stock Purchase
  Agreement and upon release of the shares held in escrow.  In the event
  the maximum payments are received under the Stock Purchase Agreement, the
  participants will receive an additional $2,137,000 in connection
  therewith.  At August 31, 1994, $554,000 has been accrued under the
  Phantom Stock Plan and will be paid on January  3, 1995.

  The Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method; accordingly,
  Barton's assets were recorded at fair market value at the date of
  acquisition.  The fair market value of Barton totaled $236,178,000 which
  was adjusted for negative goodwill of $72,390,000 and an additional
  deferred tax liability of $24,326,000 based on the difference between the
  fair market value of Barton's assets and liabilities as adjusted for
  allocation of negative goodwill and the tax basis of those assets and
  liabilities which was allocated on a pro-rata basis to noncurrent assets. 
  The results of operations of Barton have been included in the
  Consolidated Statements of Income since the date of Acquisition.

  Vintners -
  On October 15, 1993, the Company acquired substantially all of the
  tangible and intangible assets of Vintners International Company, Inc.
  (Vintners) other than cash and the Hammondsport Winery (the Vintners
  Assets), and assumed certain current liabilities associated with the
  ongoing business (the Vintners Acquisition).  Vintners was the United
  States fifth largest supplier of wine with two of the country's most


  highly recognized brands, Paul Masson and Taylor California Cellars.  The
  wineries acquired from Vintners are the Gonzales winery in Gonzales,
  California and the Paul Masson wineries in Madera and Soledad,
  California.  In addition, the Company is leasing from Vintners the
  Hammondsport winery in Hammondsport, New York.  The lease is for a period
  of 18 months from the date of the Vintners Acquisition.

  The aggregate purchase price of $148,900,000 (the Cash Consideration), is
  subject to adjustment based upon the determination of the Final Net
  Current Asset Amount (as defined below).  In addition, the Company
  incurred $8,961,000 of direct acquisition and financing costs.  The
  Company also delivered options to Vintners and Household Commercial of
  California, Inc., one of Vintners' lenders, to purchase an aggregate of
  500,000 shares (the Vintners Option Shares) of the Company's Class A
  Common Stock, at an exercise price per share of $18.25, which are
  exercisable at any time until October 15, 1996.  These options have been
  recorded at $8.42 per share, based upon an independent appraisal and
  $4,210,000 has been reflected as a component of additional
  paid-in capital.  Subsequent to year-end, 432,067 of the Vintners Option
  Shares have been exercised (see Note 10).

  The Cash Consideration was funded by the Company pursuant to (i)
  approximately $12,600,000 of Revolving Loans under the Credit Facility of
  which $11,200,000 funded the Cash Consideration and $1,400,000 funded the
  payment of direct acquisition costs; (ii) an accrued liability of
  approximately $7,700,000 for the holdback described below and (iii) the
  $130,000,000 Subordinated Bank Loan (see Note 7).

  At closing the Company held back from the Cash Consideration
  approximately 10% of the then estimated net current assets of Vintners
  purchased by the Company, and deposited an additional $2,800,000 of the
  Cash Consideration into an escrow to be held until October 15, 1995.  If
  the amount of the net current assets as determined after the closing (the
  Final Net Current Asset Amount) is greater than 90% and less than 100% of
  the amount of net current assets estimated at closing (the Estimated Net
  Current Asset Amount), then the Company shall pay into the established
  escrow an amount equal to the Final Net Current Asset Amount less 90% of
  the Estimated Net Current Asset Amount.  If the Final Net Current Asset
  Amount is greater than the Estimated Net Current Asset Amount, then, in
  addition to the payment described above, the Company shall pay an amount
  equal to such excess, plus interest from the closing, to Vintners.  If
  the Final Net Current Asset Amount is less than 90% of the Estimated Net
  Current Asset Amount, then the Company shall be paid such deficiency out
  of the escrow account.  As of August 31, 1994, no adjustment to the
  established escrow was required and the Final Net Current Asset Amount
  has not been determined.

  The Vintners Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method;
  accordingly, the Vintners Assets were recorded at fair market value at
  the date of acquisition.  The excess of the purchase price over the
  estimated fair market value of the net assets acquired (goodwill),
  $42,049,000, is being amortized on a straight-line basis over forty
  years.  The results of operations of Vintners have been included in the
  Consolidated Statements of Income since the date of acquisition.

  Almaden/Inglenook -


  On August 5, 1994 the Company acquired the Almaden and Inglenook brands,
  the fifth and sixth largest selling table wines in the United States, a
  grape juice concentrate business, and wineries in Madera and Escalon,
  California, from Heublein, Inc. (Heublein) (the Almaden/Inglenook
  Acquisition).  The Company also acquired Belaire Creek Cellars, Chateau
  La Salle and Charles Le Franc table wines, Le Domaine champagne and
  Almaden, Hartley and Jacques Bonet brandy.  The accounts receivable and
  the accounts payable related to the acquired assets were not acquired by
  the Company.

  The aggregate consideration for the acquired brands and other assets
  consisted of $130,600,000 in cash, assumption of certain current
  liabilities and options to purchase an aggregate of 600,000 shares of
  Class A Common Stock (the Almaden Option Shares).  Of the Almaden Option
  Shares, 200,000 are exercisable at a price of $30 per share and the
  remaining 400,000 are exercisable at a price of $35 per share.  All of
  the options are exercisable at any time until August 5, 1996.  The
  200,000 and 400,000 options have been recorded at $5.83 and $4.19  per
  share, respectively based upon an independent appraisal, and $2,842,000
  has been reflected as a component of additional paid-in capital.  The
  source of the cash payment made at closing, together with payment of
  other costs and expenses required by the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition,
  was financing provided by the Company pursuant to a  term loan under the
  Credit Facility (see Note 7).

  The cash purchase price is subject to adjustment based upon the
  determination of the Final Net Asset Amount as defined in the Asset
  Purchase Agreement; and, based upon a closing statement delivered to the
  company by Heublein, was reduced by $9,297,000.  In accordance with the
  terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, Heublein is obligated to the pay
  Company this amount plus interest from the closing date.  The purchase
  price for the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition at August 31, 1994, reflects
  the purchase price as adjusted for the payment expected to be received
  from Heublein.  However, as of August 31, 1994, the Final Net Asset
  Amount has not been determined.

  Heublein also agreed not to compete with the Company in the United States
  and Canada for a period of five years following the closing of the
  Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition in the production and sale of grape juice
  concentrate or sale of packaged wines bearing the designation "Chablis"
  or "Burgundy" except where, among other exceptions, such designations are
  currently used with certain brands retained by Heublein.  Certain
  companies acquired by Heublein, however, may compete directly with the
  Company.

  The Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase
  method; accordingly, the Almaden/Inglenook assets were recorded at fair
  market value at the date of acquisition.  The excess of purchase price
  over the estimated fair market value of the net assets acquired
  (goodwill), $43,939,000, is being amortized on a straight-line basis over
  forty years.  The results of operations of Almaden/Inglenook have been
  included in the Consolidated Statement of Income since the date of the
  acquisition.

  The following table sets forth unaudited pro forma consolidated
  statements of income of the Company for the years ended August 31, 1994
  and 1993.  The fiscal 1994 pro forma consolidated statement of income


  gives effect to the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition and the Vintners
  Acquisition as if they occurred on September 1, 1993.  The fiscal 1993 
  pro forma consolidated statement of  income gives effect to the
  Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition, the Vintners Acquisition and the Barton
  Acquisition as if they occurred on September 1, 1992.  The August 31,
  1994 and 1993 unaudited pro forma consolidated income statements are
  presented after giving effect to certain adjustments for depreciation,
  amortization of goodwill, interest expense on the acquisition financing
  and related income tax effects.  The pro forma consolidated statements of
  income are based upon currently available information and upon certain
  assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable under the
  circumstances.  The pro forma  consolidated statements of income do not
  purport to represent what the Company's results of operations would
  actually have been if the aforementioned transactions in fact had
  occurred on such date or at the beginning of the period indicated or to
  project the Company's financial position or results of operations at any
  future date or for any future period.







  Senior Credit Facility -
  During fiscal 1993, the Company amended its Credit Agreement which
  provided for $50,000,000 of term loans, up to $55,000,000 in revolving
  credit loans and a standby, irrevocable letter of credit with a maximum


  face amount of $28,200,000.  At August 31, 1993, the Company had
  outstanding borrowings of $50,000,000 under the term loan and $9,000,000
  under the Revolving Credit Loans.  At August 31, 1993, the Company had
  available Revolving Credit Loans totaling $46,000,000 under the amended
  Credit Agreement.  Interest, as described in the agreement, was payable
  quarterly or on the last day of each interest period based upon either
  the base rate (higher of the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% or the
  bank's prime rate) or the Eurodollar rate, as defined in the Credit
  Agreement, at the discretion of the Company.

  During fiscal 1994, the Company further amended its Credit Agreement in
  connection with the Vintners and the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisitions.  The
  amended Credit facility provides for (i) a $224,000,000 Term Loan (the
  Term Loan) facility due in June 2000, (ii) a $185,000,000 Revolving
  Credit (the Revolving Credit Loans) facility, which expires in June 2000
  and (iii) the continuation of the existing $28,200,000 Letter of Credit
  related to the contingent payments incurred with the Barton Acquisition. 
  At August 31, 1994, the Company has outstanding Term Loan borrowings of
  $177,000,000 and Revolving Credit Loans of $19,000,000.  On October 24,
  1994 the Company borrowed an additional $47,000,000 on the Term Loan and
  used the proceeds to repay a portion of the outstanding balance on the
  Revolving Credit Loans incurred since August 31, 1994.  The Term Loan
  Commitment was fully utilized after this borrowing.  The Term Loans
  borrowed under the Credit Facility may be either base rate loans or
  Eurodollar base rate loans.  Base rate loans have an interest rate equal
  to the higher of either the Federal Funds rate plus 0.5% or the prime
  rate.  Eurodollar rate loans have an interest rate equal to LIBOR plus a
  margin of 1.25%.  The current interest rate margin for both base rate and
  Eurodollar rate loans may be increased by up to 0.25% and Eurodollar rate
  loans may be decreased by up to .375%, depending on the Company's debt
  coverage ratio and long-term senior secured securities' ratings.  The
  principal of the Term Loans is to be repaid in twenty-two quarterly
  installments of $7,000,000 each beginning December 15, 1994, with a final
  quarterly payment of $70,000,000 due June 15, 2000.  The Company may
  prepay the principal of the Term Loans and the Revolving Credit Loans at
  its discretion and must prepay the principal with 65% of its annual
  excess cash flow, as defined, with proceeds from the sale of certain
  assets in excess of $10,000,000 and the first $60,000,000 of the net
  proceeds from any issuance of equity plus 50% of any net proceeds in
  excess of $60,000,000 (see Note 10).  These prepayments must be first
  applied against regular payments due with respect to the Term Loans in
  their inverse order of maturity until the Term Loans are fully retired
  and any further prepayments will be applied to reduce the outstanding
  Revolving Credit Loans.

  The $185,000,000 revolving credit available under the Credit Facility may
  be utilized by the Company either in the form of Revolving Credit Loans
  or as revolving letters of credit up to a maximum of $12,000,000.  At
  August 31, 1994 the Company had available Revolving Credit Loans under
  the Senior Credit Facility of $163,753,000.  As with Term Loans,
  Revolving Credit Loans may be either base rate loans or Eurodollar rate
  loans.  Revolving Credit Loans will mature and must be repaid June 15,
  2000.  For thirty consecutive days at any time during the last two
  quarters of each fiscal year, the aggregate outstanding principal amount
  of Revolving Credit Loans combined with the revolving letters of credit
  cannot exceed $50,000,000.


  The banks under the Credit Facility have been given security interests in
  substantially all of the
  assets of the Company including mortgage liens on certain real property. 
  The Credit Facility requires the Company to meet certain covenants and
  provides for restrictions on mergers, consolidations and sales of assets,
  payment of dividends, incurring of other debt, liens or guarantees and
  the making of investments.  The primary financial covenants as defined in
  the Credit Facility require the maintenance of minimum defined tangible
  net worth, a debt to cash flow coverage ratio, a fixed charges ratio,
  maximum capital expenditures, an interest coverage ratio and a current
  ratio.  Among the most restrictive covenants contained in the Credit
  Facility, the Company is required to maintain a fixed charges ratio not
  less than 1.0 to 1.0 at the last day of each fiscal quarter of each
  fiscal year.

  The Revolving Credit Loans require commitment fees totaling
  .375% per annum on the daily average unused balance.  Commitment fees
  totaled approximately $223,000, $228,000 and $154,000 in fiscal 1994,
  1993 and 1992, respectively. 

  The Company maintains in accordance with the Senior Credit Facility a
  collar agreement, which protects the Company against three-month London
  Interbank Offered Rates exceeding 7.5% per annum with a floor rate of 3.3%
  per annum in an amount equal to $25,000,000 expiring in July 1995.   At
  August 31, 1993, there were no interest rate swap agreements outstanding. 
  At August 31, 1992, the Company had a contract applicable to $22,000,000
  of short-term seasonal borrowings which effectively guaranteed a fixed
  interest rate of 6.82% for seasonal borrowing during the four month
  period ended September 15, 1992.  The Company is exposed to credit loss
  in the event of nonperformance by the other parties to the interest rate
  swap agreements.  The Company has not incurred any credit losses in
  connection with these agreements.

  Senior Subordinated Notes -
  During fiscal 1994, the Company borrowed $130,000,000 under the Senior
  Subordinated Loan Agreement.  The Company repaid the Subordinated Loan in
  December 1993 from the proceeds from the Senior Subordinated Notes
  offering together with revolving loan borrowings.  The $130,000,000 Notes
  are due in 2003 with a stated interest rate of 8.75% per annum.  Interest
  is payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year.  The
  Notes are unsecured and subordinated to the prior payment in full of all
  senior indebtedness of the Company, which includes the Credit Agreement. 
  The Notes are guaranteed, on a senior subordinated basis, by
  all of the Company's significant operating subsidiaries.

  The indenture relating to the Notes contains certain covenants,
  including, but not limited to, (i) limitation on indebtedness; (ii)
  limitation on restricted payments; (iii) limitation on transactions with
  affiliates; (iv) limitation on senior subordinated indebtedness; (v)
  limitation on liens; (vi) limitation on sale of assets; (vii) limitation
  on issuance of guarantees of and pledges for indebtedness; (viii)
  restriction on transfer of assets; (ix) limitation on subsidiary capital
  stock; (x) limitation on the creation of any restriction on the ability
  of the Company's subsidiaries to make distributions and other payments;
  and (xi) restrictions on mergers, consolidations and the transfer of all
  or substantially all of the assets of the Company to another person.  The
  limitation on indebtedness covenant is governed by a rolling four quarter
  fixed charge coverage ratio covenant requiring a specified minimum.

  Convertible subordinated debentures -


  On July 23, 1986, the Company issued $60,000,000 7% convertible
  subordinated debentures used to expand the Company's operations through
  capital expenditures and acquisitions.  The debentures were convertible
  at any time prior to maturity, unless previously redeemed, into Class A
  Common Stock of the Company at a conversion price of $18.22 per share,
  subject to adjustment in the event of future issuances of Common Stock.  

  During fiscal 1993, an aggregate principal amount of $977,000 of these
  debentures was converted to 53,620 shares of Class A Common Stock.

  On October 18, 1993, the Company called its Convertible Debentures for
  redemption on November 19, 1993 at a redemption price of 102.1% plus
  accrued interest.  Bondholders had until November 19, 1993 to convert
  their debentures to common stock; any debentures remaining unconverted
  after that date would be redeemed for cash in accordance with the terms
  of the original indenture.

  During the period September 1, 1993, through November 19, 1993,
  debentures in an aggregate principal amount of $58,960,000 were converted
  to 3,235,882 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock at a price of
  $18.22 per share.  Debentures in an aggregate principal amount of
  approximately $63,000 were redeemed.  Interest was accrued on the
  debentures until the date of conversion but was forfeited by the
  debenture holders upon conversion.  Accrued interest of approximately
  $1,370,000, net of the related tax effect of $520,000 was recorded as an
  addition to additional paid-in capital.  

  At the redemption date, the capitalized debenture issuance costs of
  approximately $2,246,000 net of accumulated amortization of approximately
  $677,000 were recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in-capital.

  Loans payable -
  Loans payable, secured by officers' life insurance policies, carry an
  interest rate of 5%.  The notes carry no due dates and it is management's
  intention not to repay the notes during the next fiscal year.

  Capitalized lease agreements-Industrial Development Agencies -
  Certain capitalized lease agreements require the Company to make lease
  payments equal to the principal and interest on certain bonds issued by
  Industrial Development Agencies (IDA's).  The bonds are secured by the
  leases and the related facilities.  Upon payment of the outstanding
  bonds, title to the facilities will be conveyed to the Company.  These
  transactions have been treated as capital leases with the related assets
  acquired to date ($10,731,000) included in property, plant and equipment
  and the lease commitments included in long-term debt.  Accumulated
  amortization of the foregoing assets under capital leases at August 31,
  1994 and 1993 is approximately $8,456,000 and $7,803,000 respectively.

  Among the provisions under the debenture and lease agreements are
  covenants that define minimum levels of working capital and tangible net
  worth and the maintenance of certain financial ratios as defined in the
  debt agreements.

  Principal payments required under long-term debt obligations during the
  next five fiscal years are as follows:


                            Year Ending August 31:
                                (in thousands)
   
                       1995            $ 31,001
                       1996              29,220
                       1997              28,698
                       1998              28,118
                       1999              28,118
                       Thereafter       174,968
                                       $320,123


  8. INCOME TAXES:

  Deferred income taxes are provided to reflect the effect of temporary
  differences primarily related to: (1) using the FIFO basis to value
  certain inventories for income tax purposes and the LIFO basis for
  financial reporting purposes; (2) the use of accelerated depreciation
  methods for income tax purposes and the straight-line method for
  financial reporting purposes; (3) differences in the treatment of
  advertising expense and other accruals for financial reporting and income
  tax purposes and (4) differences between the financial reporting and tax
  basis of assets and liabilities.
   
  The provision for federal and state income taxes consists of the following
 for the
  years ended August 31:

  The deferred tax provision has been increased by approximately $45,000
  and $235,000 in fiscal 1994 and 1993, respectively for the impact of the
  change in the federal statutory rate.

  A reconciliation of total tax provision to the amount computed by
  applying the expected U.S. Federal income tax rate to income before
  provision for income taxes is as follows for the years ended August 31:



  9.  PROFIT SHARING RETIREMENT PLAN AND RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLAN:

  The Company's profit-sharing retirement plan, which covers substantially
  all employees, provides for contributions by the Company in such amounts
  as the Board of Directors may annually determine and for voluntary
  contributions by employees.  The plan has qualified as tax-exempt under
  the Internal Revenue Code and conforms with the Employee Retirement
  Income Security Act of 1974.   Company contributions to the plan were
  $3,414,000, $1,290,000, and $1,249,000 in fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992,
  respectively.

  The Company's retirement savings plan, established pursuant to Section
  401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, permits substantially all full-time
  employees of the Company to defer a portion of their compensation on a
  pre-tax basis.  Participants may defer up to 10% of their compensation
  for the year.  The Company makes a matching contribution of 25% of the
  first 4% of compensation an employee defers.  Company contributions to
  this plan were $207,000, $131,000, and $109,000 in fiscal 1994, 1993 ,
  1992, respectively.

  In connection with the Barton acquisition, the Company assumed Barton's
  profit-sharing plan which covers all salaried employees.  The amount of
  Barton's contribution is at the discretion of its Board of Directors,
  subject to limitations of the plan.  Contribution expense was $1,395,000
  in fiscal 1994 and $230,000 from the date of acquisition to August 31,
  1993.



  10.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:

  Stock option and stock appreciation right plan -
  Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc. has in place a Stock Option and Stock
  Appreciation Right Plan (the Plan).  Under the Plan, non-qualified
  stock options and incentive
  stock options may be granted to purchase and stock appreciation rights
  may be granted with respect to, in the aggregate, not more than 3,000,000
  shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock.  Options
  and stock appreciation rights may be issued to employees, officers, or
  directors of the Company.  Non-employee directors are eligible to receive
  only non-qualified stock options and stock appreciation rights.  The
  option price of any incentive stock option may not be less than the fair
  market value of the shares on the date of grant.  The exercise price of
  any non-qualified stock option must equal or exceed 50% of the fair
  market value of the shares on the date of grant.  
  Options are exercisable as determined by the Compensation Committee of
  the Board of Directors.  Changes in the status of the stock option plan
  during fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992 are summarized as follows:


  Pursuant to the original Plan, on December 21, 1987, the Company granted
  to key employees stock appreciation rights with respect to 38,250 shares
  of the Company's Class A Common Stock at a base price of $4.40 per share
  (the average closing price per share for November 1987 adjusted for the
  effect of the stock splits).  Such rights entitled the employees to
  payment in stock and cash of market price increases in the Company's
  stock in the excess of the base price in equal twenty-five percent
  increments on September 30, 1989 through 1992.  In September 1992 and
  1991, employees exercised their stock appreciation rights with respect to
  4,104 and 2,556 shares of Class A Common Stock, respectively.  In
  addition, an aggregate of 4,950 of the rights were canceled through
  August 31, 1992.  During fiscal 1993, stock appreciation rights
  previously granted under the Plan expired in accordance with the terms of
  the Plan.


  Employee stock purchase plan -
  In fiscal 1989, the Company approved a stock purchase plan under which
  1,125,000 shares of Class A Common Stock can be issued.  Under the terms
  of the plan, eligible employees may purchase shares of the Company's
  Class A Common Stock through payroll deductions.  The purchase price is
  the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the stock on the first or
  last day of the purchase period.  During fiscal 1993, the plan was
  amended to allow the participation of Barton employees.  During fiscal
  1994, 1993 and 1992, employees purchased 58,955, 21,071 and 18,526
  shares, respectively.

  Common stock -
  On September 26, 1991 and June 1, 1992, the Company's Board of Directors
  declared three-for-two splits of the Company's common shares.  The new
  shares were distributed on November 8, 1991 and July 20, 1992 to holders
  of record on October 11, 1991 and June 22, 1992, respectively.  At August
  31,1994, there were 12,617,301 shares of Class A Common Stock and
  3,390,051 shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding, net of treasury
  stock.  All per share amounts have been retroactively restated to give
  effect to the splits.

  On June 28, 1993, the Company approved an increase in the number of
  authorized shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock from 15,000,000
  shares to 60,000,000 shares and an increase in the number of authorized
  shares of the Company's Class B Common Stock from 5,000,000 shares to
  20,000,000 shares.

  Stock offering -
  During February 1992, the Company completed a public offering of
  2,589,750 shares of its Class A Common Stock resulting in net proceeds
  after underwriters' discounts and commissions and expenses to the
  Company, of approximately $31,981,000.  Under the terms of the Credit
  Agreement, approximately $16,000,000, constituting approximately 50% of
  the net proceeds, was applied to reduction of the Term Loans, and
  $5,000,000 was applied by the Company to reduce the balances outstanding
  under the Revolving Credit Loans.

  On November 10, 1994, the Company completed a public offering of
  3,000,000 shares of its Class A Common Stock resulting in net proceeds
  after underwriters' discounts and commissions and estimated expenses to
  the Company, of approximately $95,428,000 .  In connection with the
  offering, 432,067 of the Vintners Option Shares were exercised and the
  Company received proceeds of $7,885,000.  Under the terms of the amended
  Credit Agreement, approximately $82,000,000, will be used to repay a
  portion of the Term Loan under the Company's Credit Agreement.  The balance
  of net proceeds will be used for working capital purposes and will
  initially be used to repay Revolving Credit Loans under the Credit
  Facility.  


  11.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

  Operating leases -
  Future payments under noncancelable operating leases having initial or
  remaining terms of one year or more are as follows:

                            Year ending August 31:
                                (in thousands)
                       1995              $1,487
                       1996               1,352
                       1997               1,358
                       1998               1,114
                       1999                 831
                       Thereafter         3,543
                                         $9,685


  Rental expense was approximately $3,318,000 in fiscal 1994, $1,841,000 in
  fiscal 1993 and  $1,460,000 in fiscal 1992.

  Purchase commitments -
  The Company has two agreements with certain suppliers to purchase blended
  Scotch whisky through December 31, 1999.  The purchase prices under the
  agreements are denominated in British pounds sterling and based upon
  exchange rates at August 31, 1994, the Company's aggregate
  future obligation will
  be approximately $13,124,000 to $16,306,000 for the contracts 
  expiring on December 31,
  1995 and approximately $11,160,000 to $13,640,000 for the contracts expiring
  on  December 31, 1999. 

  In connection with the Vintners Acquisition, and the Almaden/Inglenook
  Acquisition, the Company has assumed purchase contracts with certain
  growers and suppliers.  Under the grape purchase contracts, the Company
  is committed to purchase all grape production yielded from a specified
  number of acres for a period of time ranging up to ten years.  The actual
  tonnage and price of grapes that must be purchased by the Company will
  vary each year depending on certain factors, including weather, time of
  harvest, overall market conditions and the agricultural practices and
  location of the growers and suppliers under contract.

  The Company purchased $ 25,167,000 of grapes under these
  contracts during the period October 15, 1993 through August 31, 1994.  
  Based on current production yields and published grape prices, the
  Company estimates that the aggregate purchases under these contracts over
  the remaining term of the contracts will be approximately $394,467,000.
  During fiscal 1994, in connection with the Vintners
  Acquisition and the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition, the Company
  established a reserve for the estimated loss on these firm purchase
  commitments of approximately $62,664,000.

  The Company's aggregate obligations under the grape crush and processing
  contracts will be approximately $5,503,000 over the remaining term
  of the contracts which expire through fiscal 1997.

  Currency  forward contracts -
  At August 31, 1994 and 1993, the Company had open currency forward
  contracts to purchase German deutsche  marks of $6,674,000 and $6,031,000
  respectively, and British pounds of $579,000 and $928,000, respectively,


  all of which mature within 12 months; their fair market values, based
  upon August 31, 1994 and 1993 market exchange rates, were $7,382,000 and
  $6,262,000, respectively, for German deutsche marks and $614,000 and
  $929,000 respectively for British pounds.

  Employment contracts -
  The Company has employment contracts with certain of its executive
  officers and certain other management personnel with remaining terms
  ranging up to five years.  These agreements provide for minimum salaries,
  as adjusted for annual increases, and may include incentive bonuses based
  upon attainment of specified management goals.  In addition, these
  agreements also provide for severance payments in the event of specified
  terminations of employment.  The aggregate commitment for future compensation
  and
  severance, excluding incentive bonuses, was approximately $7,300,000
  as of August 31, 1994.

  Legal matters -
  The Company is subject to litigation from time to time in the ordinary
  course of business.  Although the amount of any liability with respect to
  such litigation cannot be determined, in the opinion of management, such
  liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
  financial condition or results of operations.


  12.  SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK:

  The Company sells its products principally to wholesalers for resale to
  retail outlets including grocery stores, package liquor stores, club and
  discount stores and restaurants.  Gross sales to the five largest
  wholesalers of the Company represented 23.7%, 25.1% and 28.5% of the
  Company's gross sales for the fiscal years ended August 31, 1994, 1993
  and 1992, respectively.  Gross sales to the Company's largest wholesaler
  represented 12.3% of the Company's gross sales for the fiscal year ended
  August 31, 1994; no single wholesaler was responsible for greater than
  10% of gross sales during the fiscal years ended August 31, 1993 and
  1992.  Gross sales to the Company's five largest wholesalers are expected
  to continue to represent a significant portion of the Company's revenues. 
  The Company's arrangements with certain of its wholesalers may,
  generally, be terminated by either party with prior notice.  The Company
  performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial position,
  and management of the Company is of the opinion that any risk of
  significant loss is reduced due to the diversity of customers and
  geographic sales area.


  13.  THE RESTRUCTURING PLAN 

  In the fourth quarter, the Company provided for costs to restructure the
  operations of its California wineries (the Restructuring Plan).  Under
  the Restructuring Plan, all  bottling operations at the Central Cellars
  winery in Lodi, California and the branded wine bottling operations at
  the Monterey Cellars Winery in Gonzales, California will be moved to the
  Mission Bell Winery located in Madera, California which was acquired by
  the Company in the Almaden/Inglenoook Acquisition.  The Monterey Cellars
  Winery will continue to be used as a crushing, winemaking and contract
  bottling facility.  The Central Cellars Winery and the winery in Soledad,
  California will be closed and offered for sale
  to reduce surplus capacity.  The


  Restructuring Plan reduced income before income taxes and net income by
  approximately $24,005,000 and $14,883,000, respectively or $.91 per
  share, on a fully diluted basis.  Of the total pretax charge,
  approximately $16,481,000 is to recognize estimated losses associated
  with the revaluation of land, buildings and equipment related to the
  facilities described above to their estimated net realizable value; and
  approximately  $7,524,000 relates to severance and other benefits
  associated with the elimination of 260 jobs.  The Restructuring Plan
  will require the Company to make capital expenditures of approximately
  $20,000,000 during fiscal 1995 to expand storage capacity and install
  certain relocated equipment.  As of August 31,1994, the Company has a
  remaining accrual of approximately $9,106,000 with respect to the
  Restructuring Plan.  The Company expects to have the Restructuring Plan
  fully implemented by the end of fiscal 1995.


                                                         CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                                                      SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

                                                       FOR THE YEARS ENDED AUGUST 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                                                              (In thousands, except per share data)
                                                                                                     


QUARTER ENDED                             11/30/93         2/28/94             5/31/94            8/31/94            YEAR  

  Net sales                               $154,485        $140,031            $154,223           $180,845          $629,584
  Gross profit                              44,655          41,668              42,775             53,275           182,373
  Net income                                 5,653           5,741               6,655             (6,316)           11,733
  Earnings per share:
    Primary                                    .40             .35                 .41               (.39)              .74
    Fully diluted                              .37             .35                 .41               (.38)              .74

QUARTER ENDED                             11/30/92         2/28/93             5/31/93            8/31/93            YEAR  

  Net sales                                $71,109         $58,782             $60,495           $115,922          $306,308
  Gross profit                              21,537          17,693              18,411             33,737            91,378
  Net income                                 3,604           2,952               3,391              5,657            15,604
  Earnings per share:
    Primary                                    .31             .25                 .29                .45              1.30
    Fully diluted                              .28             .24                 .27                .41              1.20

QUARTER ENDED                             11/30/91         2/28/92             5/31/92            8/31/92            YEAR  
 
  Net sales                                $63,580         $56,942             $65,068            $59,652          $245,242
  Gross profit                              17,834          17,211              18,829             16,683            70,557
  Net income                                 2,410           2,128               3,357              3,461            11,356
  Earnings per share:
    Primary                                    .26             .23                 .29                .30              1.08
    Fully diluted                              .25             .22                 .27                .27              1.01


Per share amounts have been appropriately adjusted to reflect the Company's
 stock splits (see Note 10 in the Company's consolidated financial
statements).


                                                   The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                                                             are an integral part of this schedule.
/TABLE


                                                                                                           SCHEDULE V
                                                         CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                                  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                                                       FOR THE YEARS ENDED AUGUST 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                                                                         (in thousands)
                                                                                                              
                                                         Balance at                                Transfers,             Balance
                                                         Beginning          Addition               Retirements            at End 
           Classification                                of Year            at Cost                or Sales               of Year

YEAR ENDED AUGUST 31, 1992:
  Land                                                     $ 1,206            $ 2,925                $      -              $  4,131
  Buildings and improvements                                19,926              6,370                       -                26,296
  Machinery and equipment                                   57,606             25,126                      60                82,672
  Motor vehicles                                             1,792                 19                       -                 1,811
  Construction in progress                                     937              3,702                   2,425                 2,214
                                                           $81,467            $38,142                 $ 2,485              $117,124

YEAR ENDED AUGUST 31, 1993:
  Land                                                    $  4,131            $   472                 $   298              $  4,305
  Buildings and improvements                                26,296              3,839                       -                30,135
  Machinery and equipment                                   82,672              9,095                     606                91,161
  Motor vehicles                                             1,811              1,495                     752                 2,554
  Construction in progress                                   2,214              5,404                   5,543                 2,075
                                                          $117,124            $20,305                 $ 7,199              $130,230

YEAR ENDED AUGUST 31, 1994:
  Land                                                    $  4,305           $  9,889                 $   380              $ 13,814
  Buildings and improvements                                30,135             34,160                   1,855                62,440
  Machinery and equipment                                   91,161             90,006                  12,936               168,222
  Motor vehicles                                             2,554                171                     173                 2,552
  Construction in progress                                   2,075              6,964                      59                 8,989
                                                          $130,230           $141,190                 $15,403              $256,017



The accompanying notes to consolidated financial  statements are an integral part of this schedule.
/TABLE


                                                                               SCHEDULE VI


                       CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                        ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION OF

                                PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                     FOR THE YEARS ENDED AUGUST 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                                       (in thousands)
                                                                
                               Balance at         Retirements    Balance at
                              Beginning             and Other     End of  
      Classification           of Year  Provision   Disposals      Year   

  YEAR ENDED AUGUST 31, 1992:
    Buildings and improvements   $ 5,990    $  760        $ -     $ 6,750
    Machinery and equipment       31,523     5,150          3      36,670
    Motor vehicles                   962       172          -       1,134
                                 $38,475    $6,082       $  3     $44,554

  YEAR ENDED AUGUST 31, 1993:
    Buildings and improvements   $ 6,750    $  918      $   -     $ 7,668
    Machinery and equipment       36,670     6,315          9      42,976
    Motor vehicles                 1,134       156        304         986
                                 $44,554    $7,389       $313     $51,630

  YEAR ENDED AUGUST 31, 1994:
    Buildings and improvements   $ 7,668   $ 1,361        $ 2     $ 9,027
    Machinery and equipment       42,976     8,989        296      51,669
    Motor vehicles                   986       184        132       1,038
                                 $51,630   $10,534       $430     $61,734
                                                              
                                                                                      


  The accompanying notes to consolidated financial  statements are an integral part of
  this schedule.
/TABLE


                                                                              SCHEDULE IX


                       CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                    SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

                     FOR THE YEARS ENDED AUGUST 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                                       (in thousands)
                                                                    

                                                        1994      1993     1992

  Notes Payable to Banks for Short-Term Borrowings

      Balance at August 31,                          $19,000   $ 9,000 $      -

      Weighted average interest rate on notes 
       payable to banks at  end of year                 6.45%      5.7%       -

      Maximum amount of notes payable 
        outstanding at any month-end                 185,000    35,000   14,000

      Weighted average amount of notes 
        payable outstanding during the 
        year (a)                                      55,375    18,500    4,000
      Weighted average interest rate on 
        notes payable outstanding 
        during the year (b)                             6.07%      5.7%     7.3%



  (a) The weighted average amount of notes payable outstanding for fiscal 1994, 1993 and
  1992 was calculated by dividing the sum of total short-term borrowings outstanding at
  each month end by the number of months in the fiscal year.  

  (b) The weighted average interest rate on notes payable outstanding during fiscal 1994,
  1993 and 1992 was calculated by dividing the total interest expense on all short-term
  borrowings by the average daily amount outstanding.  



  The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of
  this schedule.
/TABLE


                                                                                SCHEDULE X


                       CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                        SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATING STATEMENT INFORMATION

                     FOR THE YEARS ENDED AUGUST 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                                              (in thousands)

                                                                    

                                                         Charged to Cost and Expenses     
       Item                                           1994       1993     1992 

  Excise taxes                                      $231,475   $83,109  $59,875

  Advertising                                         64,540    33,002   24,285

  Maintenance and repairs                              5,221     2,563    2,171



  The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of
  this schedule.
/TABLE


  Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
              and Financial Disclosure

              Not Applicable.
                                   PART III


  Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

      The information required by this Item (except for the information
  regarding executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K which
  is included in Part I hereof in accordance with General Instruction G(3))
  is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's proxy statement to
  be issued in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the
  Company to be held on January 19, 1995 under the heading "Nomination and
  Election of Directors", which proxy statement will be filed within 120
  days after the end of the Company's fiscal year.

  Item 11.    Executive Compensation.

      The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
  reference to the Company's proxy statement to be issued in connection
  with the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders of the Company to be held on
  January 19, 1995, under the heading "Executive Compensation", which proxy
  statement will be filed within 120 days after the end of the Company's
  fiscal year.

  Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
              Management.

      The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
  reference to the Company's proxy statement to be issued in connection
  with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company to be held on
  January 19, 1995, under the headings "Beneficial Ownership" and
  "Nomination and Election of Directors", which proxy statement will be
  filed within 120 days after the end of the Company's fiscal year.

  Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
  reference to the Company's proxy statement to be issued in connection
  with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company to be held on
  January 19, 1995, under the heading "Executive Compensation", which proxy
  statement will be filed within 120 days after the end of the Company's
  fiscal year.


                                   PART IV


  Item 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
              8-K

  (a)     1.  Financial Statements

          The following consolidated financial statements of the Company
          are submitted herewith:

          Report of Independent Public Accountants

          Consolidated Balance Sheets - August 31, 1994 and 1993

          Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended August 31,
          1994, 1993 and 1992

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for
          the years ended August 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended August
          31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

      2.  Financial Statement Schedules

          The following consolidated financial information is submitted
  herewith:

          Schedule V  Property, Plant and Equipment for the years ended
                      August 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

          Schedule VI     Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of
                          Property, Plant and Equipment for the years ended
                          August 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

          Schedule IX     Short-term Borrowings for the years ended August
                          31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

          Schedule X  Supplementary Operating Statement Information for the
                      years ended August 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

          Selected Financial Data -- Five-Year Summary

          Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

      All other schedules are not submitted because they are not applicable
  or not required under Regulation S-X or because the required information
  is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

      Individual financial statements of the Registrant have been omitted
  because the Registrant is primarily an operating company and no
  subsidiary included in the consolidated financial statements has minority
  equity interests and/or non-current indebtedness, not guaranteed by the
  Registrant, in excess of 5% of total consolidated assets.


      3.  Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K

          The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated herein
          by reference, as indicated:

          2.1     Asset Purchase Agreement dated August 2, 1991 between the
                  Registrant and Guild Wineries and Distilleries, as
                  assigned to an acquiring subsidiary (filed as Exhibit
                  2(a) to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated October
                  1, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference).
          2.2     Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 27, 1993 among the
                  Registrant, Barton Incorporated and the stockholders of
                  Barton Incorporated, Amendment No. 1 to Stock Purchase
                  Agreement dated May 3, 1993, and Amendment No. 2 to Stock
                  Purchase Agreement dated June 29, 1993 (filed as Exhibit
                  2(a) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                  June 29, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
          2.3     Asset Sale Agreement dated September 14, 1993 between the
                  Registrant and Vintners International Company, Inc.
                  (filed as Exhibit 2(a) to the Registrant's Current Report
                  on Form 8-K dated October 15, 1993 and incorporated
                  herein by reference).
          2.4     Amendment dated as of October 14, 1993 to Asset Sale
                  Agreement dated as of September 14, 1993 by and between
                  Vintners International Company, Inc. and the Registrant
                  (filed as Exhibit 2(b) to the Registrant's Current Report
                  on Form 8-K dated October 15, 1993 and incorporated
                  herein by reference).
          2.5     Amendment No. 2 dated as of January 18, 1994 to Asset
                  Sale Agreement dated as of September 14, 1993 by and
                  between Vintners International Company, Inc. and the
                  Registrant (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                  ended February 28, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                  reference).
          2.6     Asset Purchase Agreement dated August 3, 1994 between the
                  Registrant and Heublein, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2(a) to
                  the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August
                  5, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
          2.7     Amendment dated November 8, 1994 to Asset Purchase
                  Agreement between Heublein, Inc. and Registrant (filed as
                  Exhibit 2.2 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
                  Form S-3 (Amendment No. 2) (Registration No. 33-55997)
                  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
                  November 8, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference).

          2.8     Amendment dated November 18, 1994 to Asset Purchase
                  Agreement between Heublein, Inc. and the Registrant
                  (filed herewith).
          3.1     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
                  (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993
                  and incorporated herein by reference).
          3.2     Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed as
                  Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
                  Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-56557) and incorporated
                  herein by reference).


          4.1     Specimen of Certificate of Class A Common Stock of the
                  Company (filed as Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant's
                  Registration Statement on Form 8-A, dated April 28, 1992
                  and incorporated herein by reference).
          4.2     Specimen of Certificate of Class B Common Stock of the
                  Company (filed as Exhibit 1.2 to the Registrant's
                  Registration Statement on Form 8-A, dated April 28, 1992
                  and incorporated herein by reference).
          4.3     Indenture dated as of December 27, 1993 among the
                  Registrant, its Subsidiaries and Chemical Bank (filed as
                  Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 1993 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          4.4     First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 3, 1994
                  among the Registrant, Canandaigua West, Inc. and Chemical
                  Bank (filed as Exhibit 4.5 to the Registrant's
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-
                  56557) and incorporated herein by reference).
          10.1    The Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc. Stock Option and Stock
                  Appreciation Right Plan (filed as Appendix B of the
                  Company's Definitive Proxy Statement dated December 23,
                  1987 and incorporated herein by reference).
          10.2    Amendment No. 1 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
                  Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1992 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          10.3    Amendment No. 2 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
                  Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed as
                  Exhibit 28 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                  for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 1992 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          10.4    Amendment No. 3 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
                  Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Rights Plan (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          10.5    Amendment No. 4 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
                  Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 1993 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          10.6    Amendment No. 5 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
                  Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 1994 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          10.7    Employment Agreement between Barton Incorporated and
                  Ellis M. Goodman dated as of October 1, 1991 as amended
                  by Amendment to Employment Agreement between Barton
                  Incorporated and Ellis M. Goodman dated as of June 29,
                  1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31,
                  1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
          10.8    Barton Incorporated Management Incentive Plan (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form


                  10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          10.9    Ellis M. Goodman Split Dollar Insurance Agreement (filed
                  as Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          10.10   Barton Brands, Ltd. Deferred Compensation Plan (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          10.11   Marvin Sands Split Dollar Insurance Agreement (filed as
                  Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and
                  incorporated herein by reference).
          10.12   Amendment and Restatement dated as of June 29, 1993 of
                  Credit Agreement among the Registrant, its subsidiaries
                  and certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank
                  (National Association) acts as agent (filed as Exhibit
                  2(b) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                  June 29, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
          10.13   Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 15, 1993 to Amendment
                  and Restatement dated as of June 29, 1993 of Credit
                  Agreement among the Registrant, its subsidiaries and
                  certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank
                  (National Association) acts as agent (filed as Exhibit
                  2(c) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                  October 15, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
          10.14   Senior Subordinated Loan Agreement dated as of October
                  15, 1993 among the Registrant, its subsidiaries and
                  certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank
                  (National Association) acts as Agent (filed as Exhibit
                  2(d) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                  October 15, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
          10.15   Second Amendment and Restatement dated as of August 5,
                  1994 of Amendment and Restatement of Credit Agreement
                  dated as of June 29, 1993 among the Registrant, its
                  subsidiaries and certain banks for which The Chase
                  Manhattan Bank (National Association) acts as agent
                  (filed as Exhibit 2(b) to the Registrant's Current Report
                  on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994 and incorporated herein
                  by reference).
          10.16   Amendment No. 1 (dated as of August 5, 1994) to Second
                  Amendment and Restatement dated as of August 5, 1994 of
                  Amendment and Restatement of Credit Agreement dated as of
                  June 29, 1993 among the Registrant, its subsidiaries and
                  certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank
                  (National Association) acts as agent (filed herewith).
          10.17   Security Agreement dated as of August 5, 1994 among the
                  Registrant, its subsidiaries and certain banks for which
                  The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) acts as
                  agent (filed as Exhibit 2(c) to the Registrant's Current
                  Report on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994 and incorporated
                  herein by reference.
          11.1    Statement of computation of per share earnings (filed
                  herewith).
          21.1    Subsidiaries of Registrant (filed herewith).
          23.1    Consent of Arthur Andersen & Co. (filed herewith).


  (b) Reports on Form 8-K

      The following Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter of the
      Company's 1994 fiscal year:

      1.  Form 8-K dated June 23, 1994.  This Form 8-K reported information
          under Item 5 (Other Events).

      2.  Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994.  This Form 8-K reported
          information under Item 2 (Acquisition or Disposition of Assets),
          Item 5 (Other Events) and Item 7 (Financial Statements, Pro Forma
          Financial Information and Exhibits).

      3.  Form 8-K/A Amendment No. 1 to Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994. 
          This Form 8-K/A was filed during the first quarter of the Company's
          1995 fiscal year (September 7, 1994) and reported information
          under Item 5 (Other Events) and Item 7 (Financial Statements, Pro
          Forma Financial Information and Exhibits).  The following
          financial statements were filed with this Form 8-K/A:

               The Heublein, Inc. and Affiliates statements of assets and
               liabilities related to the product lines acquired by the
               Registrant as of August 5, 1994 and the related Statements
               of Identified Income and Expenses of the Product Lines
               Acquired and Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three
               years in the period ended September 30, 1993 and the report
               of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent auditors; and

               The unaudited Interim Financial Statements of Product Lines
               Acquired by the Registrant of Heublein, Inc. and Affiliates
               for the nine month periods ended June 30, 1994 and 1993,
               together with the notes thereto; and

               The unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and the
               unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of
               income for the year ended August 31, 1993 and for the nine
               months ended May 31, 1994, and the notes thereto.

      4.  Form 8-K/A, Amendment No. 2 to Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994. 
          This Form 8-K/A was filed during the first quarter of the Company's
          1995 fiscal year (October 31, 1994) and reported information
          under Item 7 (Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial
          Information and Exhibits).  The following financial statements
          were filed with this Form 8-K/A:

               The Heublein, Inc. and Affiliates statements of assets and
               liabilities related to the product lines acquired by the
               Registrant as of August 5, 1994 and the related Statements
               of Identified Income and Expenses of the Product Lines
               Acquired and Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three
               years in the period ended September 30, 1993 and the report
               of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent auditors; and

               The unaudited Interim Financial Statements of Product Lines
               Acquired by the Registrant of Heublein, Inc. and Affiliates
               for the ten month periods ended August 5, 1994 and July 31,
               1993, together with the notes thereto; and


               The unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and the
               unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of
               income for the year ended August 31, 1993 and for the nine
               months ended May 31, 1994, and the notes thereto.



  

                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                        
                                      Richard Sands, President and Chief Executive Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                  S/                        
  Richard Sands, President, Chief     Lynn K. Fetterman, Senior Vice
  Executive Officer and Director      President, Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer)           and Secretary
                                      (Principal Financial and Principal Accounting Officer)
  Dated:  November 29, 1994           Dated:  November 29, 1994


      S/                                  S/                        
  Marvin Sands, Chairman of the Board Robert Sands, Director
  Dated:  November 29, 1994           Dated:  November 29, 1994


      S/                                  S/                        
  James A. Locke, III, Director       Bertram E. Silk, Director
  Dated:  November 29, 1994           Dated:  November 29, 1994


      S/                                  S/                        
  Ellis Goodman, Director             George Bresler, Director
  Dated:  November 29, 1994           Dated:  November 29, 1994


      S/                        
  Sir Harry Solomon, Director
  Dated:  November 29, 1994


                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Batavia Wine Cellars, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Richard Sands, Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Richard Sands, Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ned Cooper, President
  (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Lynn Fetterman, Secretary and Treasurer
  (Principal Financial Officer and 
  Principal Accounting Officer)


                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Bisceglia Brothers Wine Co.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Richard Sands, Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Marvin Sands, Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Richard Sands, Vice President 
  and Director (Principal Executive
  Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Bertram E. Silk, Chief Executive 
  Officer and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Lynn Fetterman, Secretary
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer


                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               California Products Company


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Richard Sands, Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Marvin Sands, Vice President, 
  Treasurer and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Richard Sands, Vice President and
  Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Melvin Cellini, President and Director
  (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Lynn K. Fetterman, Secretary
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)


                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Guild Wineries & Distilleries, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                  Chris Kalabokes, Chief Executive Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Richard Sands, Chairman of the 
  Board of Directors


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Robert Sands, Assistant Secretary
  and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Chris Kalabokes, President and
  Chief Executive Officer
  (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Lynn K. Fetterman, Secretary and 
  Treasurer (Principal Financial 
  Officer and Principal Accounting 
  Officer)


                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Widmer's Wine Cellars, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Richard Sands, Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Marvin Sands, Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Richard Sands, Vice President and
  Director (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Charles E. Hetterich, President,
  Treasurer and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Lynn K. Fetterman, Secretary
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)


                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Tenner Brothers, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Richard Sands, Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Marvin Sands, President, Treasurer
  and Director

      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Richard Sands, Vice President and
  Director (Principal Executive
  Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Lynn K. Fetterman, Secretary
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)


                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Vintners International Company, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Richard Sands, President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Richard Sands, President and Sole
  Director (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Lynn K. Fetterman, Secretary and
  Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer
  and Principal Accounting Officer)




                                                         SIGNATURES
      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Canandaigua West, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Richard Sands, President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Richard Sands, President and Sole
  Director (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Lynn K. Fetterman, Secretary and
  Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer
  and Principal Accounting Officer)




                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Barton Incorporated


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Fred R. Mardell, Vice President
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ellis M. Goodman, Chairman of the 
  Board of Directors and Chief
  Executive Officer (Principal Executive
  Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Alexander L. Berk, President, Chief
  Operating Officer and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Fred R. Mardell, Vice President,
  Secretary and Director

      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Edward L. Golden, Vice President and
  Director

      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Vice 
  President
  (Principal Financial Officer
  and Principal Accounting Officer)

      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Paul L. Kraus, Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994




  Sir Harry Solomon, Director




                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Barton Brands, Ltd.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Fred R. Mardell, 
                                      Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ellis M. Goodman, Chairman of the 
  Board of Directors  
  (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Fred R. Mardell, Executive Vice President,
  Secretary and Vice Chairman of the
  Board of Directors


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Edward L. Golden, President and
  Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Executive Vice
  President-Finance
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Alexander L. Berk,  Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994




  Paul L. Kraus, Director






                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Barton Beers, Ltd.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Fred R. Mardell,
                                      Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ellis M. Goodman, Chairman of the 
  Board of Directors  
  (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Fred R. Mardell, Vice President,
  Secretary and Vice Chairman of the
  Board of Directors


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Alexander L. Berk, Executive Vice 
  President and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Executive Vice President
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)




                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Barton Brands of California, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Fred R. Mardell, 
                                      Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ellis M. Goodman, President and 
  Director
  (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Fred R. Mardell, Vice President,
  Secretary and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Edward L. Golden, Vice President and
  Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Alexander L. Berk, Executive Vice 
  President and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Executive Vice President
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Paul L. Kraus, Director






                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Barton Brands of Georgia, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Fred R. Mardell, 
                                      Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ellis M. Goodman, President and 
  Director
  (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Fred R. Mardell, Vice President,
  Secretary and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Edward L. Golden, Vice President and
  Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Alexander L. Berk, Executive Vice 
  President and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Executive Vice President
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Paul L. Kraus, Director






                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Barton Management, Inc.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Fred R. Mardell, 
                                      Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ellis M. Goodman, President, Chairman
  of the Board of Directors


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Fred R. Mardell, Vice President,
  Secretary, Chief Executive Officer
  and Director (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Alexander L. Berk, Executive Vice 
  President and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Executive Vice
  President
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)




                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Stevens Point Beverage Co.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Fred R. Mardell, 
                                      Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ellis M. Goodman, Chairman
  of the Board of Directors



      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Fred R. Mardell, Vice President,
  Secretary, Chief Executive Officer
  and Director (Principal Executive
  Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  James P. Ryan, Chief Operating Officer,
  Vice President and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Executive Vice President
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)




                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Barton Distillers Import Corp.


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Fred R. Mardell, 
                                      Vice President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ellis M. Goodman, President and
  Director (Principal Executive Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Fred R. Mardell, Vice President,
  Secretary and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Alexander L. Berk, Executive Vice
  President and Director


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Executive Vice President
  (Principal Financial Officer and
  Principal Accounting Officer)




                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Barton Financial Corporation


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Norman R. Goldstein
                                      President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Norman R. Goldstein, President, 
  Treasurer and Director 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Executive Vice 
  President, Secretary and Director
  (Principal Financial Officer and 
  Principal Accounting Officer)


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Charles B. Campbell, Jr., Vice
  President and Director




                                                         SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
  caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  Dated:  November 29, 1994               Monarch Wine Company, Limited Partnership


                                  By:     S/                                  
                                      Fred R. Mardell, 
                                      Vice President of Barton Management, Inc., its general partner

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Ellis M. Goodman, President and Chairman
  of the Board of Directors of Barton
  Management, Inc.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Fred R. Mardell, Vice President,
  Secretary, Chief Executive Officer
  and Director of Barton Management, Inc.
  (Principal Executive Officer)



      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Alexander L. Berk, Executive Vice 
  President and Director of Barton
  Management, Inc.


      S/                                        Dated:  November 29, 1994
  Raymond E. Powers, Executive Vice 
  President of Barton Management, Inc.
  (Principal Financial Officer and 
  Principal Accounting Officer)
/TABLE




                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS


  Exhibit No.                                                         Page No.  
                                                                    In Manually 
                                                                    Signed Copy


  2.1     Asset Purchase Agreement dated August 2, 1991 between the
          Registrant and Guild Wineries and Distilleries, as
          assigned to an acquiring subsidiary (filed as Exhibit
          2(a) to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated October
          1, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference).
  2.2     Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 27, 1993 among the
          Registrant, Barton Incorporated and the stockholders of
          Barton Incorporated, Amendment No. 1 to Stock Purchase
          Agreement dated May 3, 1993, and Amendment No. 2 to Stock
          Purchase Agreement dated June 29, 1993 (filed as Exhibit
          2(a) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
          June 29, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
  2.3     Asset Sale Agreement dated September 14, 1993 between the
          Registrant and Vintners International Company, Inc. (filed as
          Exhibit 2(a) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
          dated October 15, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
  2.4     Amendment dated as of October 14, 1993 to Asset Sale
          Agreement dated as of September 14, 1993 by and between
          Vintners International Company, Inc. and the Registrant
          (filed as Exhibit 2(b) to the Registrant's Current Report on
          Form 8-K dated October 15, 1993 and incorporated herein by
          reference).
  2.5     Amendment No. 2 dated as of January 18, 1994 to Asset Sale
          Agreement dated as of September 14, 1993 by and between
          Vintners International Company, Inc. and the Registrant
          (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
          Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 1994 and
          incorporated herein by reference).
  2.6     Asset Purchase Agreement dated August 3, 1994 between the
          Registrant and Heublein, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2(a) to the
          Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994
          and incorporated herein by reference).
  2.7     Amendment dated November 8, 1994 to Asset Purchase Agreement
          between Heublein, Inc. and Registrant (filed as Exhibit 2.2
          to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3
          (Amendment No. 2) (Registration No. 33-55997) filed with the
          Securities and Exchange Commission on November 8, 1994 and
          incorporated herein by reference).
  2.8     Amendment dated November 18, 1994 to Asset Purchase Agreement
          between Heublein, Inc. and the Registrant (filed herewith).
  3.1     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed
          as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and incorporated
          herein by reference).
  3.2     Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed as
          Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
          Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-56557) and incorporated herein
          by reference).
  4.1     Specimen of Certificate of Class A Common Stock of the
          Company (filed as Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant's
          Registration Statement on Form 8-A, dated April 28, 1992 and
          incorporated herein by reference).




  4.2     Specimen of Certificate of Class B Common Stock of the
          Company (filed as Exhibit 1.2 to the Registrant's
          Registration Statement on Form 8-A, dated April 28, 1992 and
          incorporated herein by reference).
  4.3     Indenture dated as of December 27, 1993 among the Registrant,
          its Subsidiaries and Chemical Bank (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to
          the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
          quarter ended November 30, 1993 and incorporated herein by
          reference).
  4.4     First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 3, 1994 among
          the Registrant, Canandaigua West, Inc. and Chemical Bank
          (filed as Exhibit 4.5 to the Registrant's Registration
          Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-56557) and
          incorporated herein by reference).
  10.1         The Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc. Stock Option and
               Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed as Appendix B of
               the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement dated December
               23, 1987 and incorporated herein by reference).
  10.2         Amendment No. 1 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
               Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed
               as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1992 and
               incorporated herein by reference).
  10.3         Amendment No. 2 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
               Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed
               as Exhibit 28 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
               10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 1992 and
               incorporated herein by reference).
  10.4         Amendment No. 3 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
               Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Rights Plan (filed
               as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and
               incorporated herein by reference).
  10.5         Amendment No. 4 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
               Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed
               as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30,
               1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
  10.6         Amendment No. 5 to the Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
               Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed
               as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February 28,
               1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
  10.7         Employment Agreement between Barton Incorporated and
               Ellis M. Goodman dated as of October 1, 1991 as amended
               by Amendment to Employment Agreement between Barton
               Incorporated and Ellis M. Goodman dated as of June 29,
               1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August
               31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
  10.8         Barton Incorporated Management Incentive Plan (filed as
               Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and
               incorporated herein by reference).
  10.9         Ellis M. Goodman Split Dollar Insurance Agreement
               (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August
               31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
  10.10   Barton Brands, Ltd. Deferred Compensation Plan (filed as Exhibit
          10.8 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the




          fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by
          reference).
  10.11   Marvin Sands Split Dollar Insurance Agreement (filed as
          Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
          10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and
          incorporated herein by reference).
  10.12   Amendment and Restatement dated as of June 29, 1993 of Credit
          Agreement among the Registrant, its subsidiaries and certain
          banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association)
          acts as agent (filed as Exhibit 2(b) to the Registrant's Current
          Report on Form 8-K dated June 29, 1993 and incorporated herein by
          reference).
  10.13   Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 15, 1993 to Amendment
          and Restatement dated as of June 29, 1993 of Credit
          Agreement among the Registrant, its subsidiaries and
          certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank
          (National Association) acts as agent (filed as Exhibit
          2(c) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
          October 15, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
  10.14   Senior Subordinated Loan Agreement dated as of October
          15, 1993 among the Registrant, its subsidiaries and
          certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank
          (National Association) acts as Agent (filed as Exhibit
          2(d) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
          October 15, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
  10.15   Second Amendment and Restatement dated as of August 5,
          1994 of Amendment and Restatement of Credit Agreement
          dated as of June 29, 1993 among the Registrant, its
          subsidiaries and certain banks for which The Chase
          Manhattan Bank (National Association) acts as agent
          (filed as Exhibit 2(b) to the Registrant's Current Report
          on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994 and incorporated herein
          by reference).
  10.16   Amendment No. 1 (dated as of August 5, 1994) to Second
          Amendment and Restatement dated as of August 5, 1994 of
          Amendment and Restatement of Credit Agreement dated as of
          June 29, 1993 among the Registrant, its subsidiaries and
          certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank
          (National Association) acts as agent (filed herewith) . . . . . .
  10.17   Security Agreement dated as of August 5, 1994 among the
          Registrant, its subsidiaries and certain banks for which
          The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) acts as
          agent (filed as Exhibit 2(c) to the Registrant's Current
          Report on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994 and incorporated
          herein by reference.
  11.1         Statement of computation of per share earnings (filed
               herewith)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  21.1         Subsidiaries of Registrant (filed herewith)  . . . . . . . .
  23.1         Consent of Arthur Andersen & Co (filed
               herewith). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

