10-K


form10k-022806.htm

FORM 10K 022806

Form 10K 022806

UNITED
      STATES

SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON,
      D.C. 20549

FORM
      10-K

(Mark
      One)

x

ANNUAL
                REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
                ACT OF

For
      the
      fiscal year ended

February 28, 2006

OR

o

TRANSITION
                REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
                ACT OF

For
      the
      transition period from ____________________ to ____________________

Commission
      File Number 001-08495

CONSTELLATION
                BRANDS, INC.

(Exact
                name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

16-0716709

(State
                or other jurisdiction of

incorporation
                or organization)

(I.R.S.
                Employer

Identification
                No.)

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate
      by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes

X

No
      ___

Indicate
      by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ___   No

X

Indicate
      by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required
      to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
      for
      the past 90 days. Yes

X

No

___

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate
      by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated
      filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
      One):

Large
      Accelerated Filer

X

Accelerated
      Filer ___

Non-accelerated
      Filer ___

Indicate
      by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ___

No

X

The
      aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-affiliates of
      the
      Registrant, based upon the closing sales prices of the Registrant’s Class A and
      Class B Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange as of the last
      business day of the Registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
      was $5,409,187,385. The Registrant has no non-voting common equity.

The
      number of shares outstanding with respect to each of the classes of common
      stock
      of Constellation Brands, Inc., as of April 14, 2006, is set forth
      below:

Class

Number
                  of Shares Outstanding

Class
                  A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

199,619,196

Class
                  B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

23,853,038

DOCUMENTS
      INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The
      proxy
      statement of Constellation Brands, Inc. to be issued for the Annual Meeting
      of
      Stockholders which is expected to be held July 27, 2006 is incorporated by
      reference in Part III to the extent described therein.

========================================================================================================================================

This
      Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the
      meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

These
      forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties,
      many of which are beyond the Company’s control, that could cause actual results
      to differ materially from those set forth in, or implied by, such
      forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical
      facts included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the statements
      under Item 1 “Business” and Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations” regarding the Company’s business
      strategy, future financial position, prospects, plans and objectives of
      management, as well as information concerning expected actions of third parties
      are forward-looking statements. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
      the words “anticipate,” “intend,” “expect,” and similar expressions are intended
      to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking
      statements contain such identifying words. All forward-looking statements speak
      only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company undertakes
      no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as
      a
      result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although the Company
      believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements
      are
      reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be
      correct. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business
      operations, important factors that could cause actual results to differ
      materially from those set forth in, or implied, by the Company’s forward-looking
      statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are those described
      in
      Item 1A “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report and in other Company filings
      with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

PART
      I

Item
      1.

Business

Introduction

Unless
      the context otherwise requires, the terms “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” refer
      to Constellation Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and all references to “net
      sales” refer to gross sales less promotions, returns and allowances, and excise
      taxes to conform with the Company’s method of classification. All references to
“Fiscal 2006,” “Fiscal 2005” and “Fiscal 2004” shall refer to the Company’s
      fiscal year ended the last day of February of the indicated year. All references
      to “Fiscal 2007” shall refer to the Company’s fiscal year ending February 28,
      2007.

Market
      positions and i

ndustry
      data discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are as of calendar 2005 and
      have been obtained

or
      derived

from
      industry and government publications and Company estimates. The industry and
      government publications include: Adams Liquor Handbook; Adams Wine Handbook;
      Adams Beer Handbook; Adams Handbook Advance; The U.S. Wine Market: Impact
      Databank Review and Forecast; The U.S. Beer Market: Impact Databank Review
      and
      Forecast; The U.S. Spirits Market: Impact Databank Review and Forecast;
      International Wine and Spirit Record; Euromonitor; Australian Bureau of
      Statistics; Information Resources, Inc.; ACNielsen; AZTEC;

Beer
      Marketer’s Insights; The Beer Institute; and

DISCUS

.
      The
      Company has not independently verified the data from the industry and government
      publications. Unless otherwise noted, all references to market positions are
      based on unit volume.

The
      Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the
      successor to a business founded in 1945. The Company has approximately

7,900

employees located throughout the world and the corporate headquarters are
      located in Fairport, New York

.


The
      Company is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol
      with a broad portfolio of brands across the wine, imported beer and spirits
      categories. The Company has the largest wine business in the world and has
      a
      leading market position in each of its core markets, which include the United
      States, United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand.

In
      the
      United States, the Company is the largest multi-category (wine, imported beer
      and spirits) supplier of beverage alcohol. In addition to its position in wine,
      the Company is the largest marketer of imported beer in 25 primarily western
      states, where it has exclusive rights to distribute the Mexican brands in its
      portfolio, and is a leading producer and marketer of distilled spirits. With
      its
      broad product portfolio, the Company believes it is distinctly positioned to
      satisfy an array of consumer preferences across all beverage alcohol categories
      and price points.

Many
      of
      the Company’s products are recognized leaders in their respective categories and
      geographic markets. The Company’s strong market positions make the Company a
      supplier of choice to its customers, who include wholesale distributors,
      retailers and on-premise locations.

In
      addition, in the United Kingdom, the Company is the leading independent
      (non-brewery-owned) drinks wholesaler, providing a full range of beverage
      alcohol and soft drinks to the on-premise trade. The Company leverages this
      business as a strategic route-to-market for its imported wine
      portfolio.

Net
      sales
      by product category are summarized as follows:

The
      Company’s geographic markets include North America (primarily the United
      States), Europe (primarily the United Kingdom) and Australasia (primarily
      Australia and New Zealand). Net sales by geographic area (based on the location
      of the selling company) are summarized as follows:


There
      are
      certain key trends within the beverage alcohol industry which
      include:

·

Consolidation
                of wholesalers and retailers; and

·

Attractive
                consumer trends which include:

·

An
                increase in global wine
                consumption;

·

Growth
                of New World wines (wines produced from the United States, Australia,
                New
                Zealand, Chile, Argentina and South Africa) in the Company’s core markets
                outpacing growth of Old World wines (wines primarily produced in
                European
                countries including France, Germany, Spain and
                Italy);

·

Wine
                and spirits categories growing at a faster rate than the beer category,
                particularly in the U.S. and the U.K.;
                and

·

Consumers
                “trading up” to premium products within each category. On a global basis,
                within the wine category, premium wines are growing faster than
                value-priced wines. In the United States, within the beer category,
                imported beers are growing faster than domestic beers, and premium
                spirits
                are growing faster than value-priced
                spirits.

To
      capitalize on these trends, the Company has employed a strategy of growing
      through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions to become more
      competitive, with a focus on the faster growing segments of the beverage alcohol
      industry and developing strong market positions in the wine, imported beer
      and
      spirits categories. Key elements of the Company’s strategy include:

·

Leveraging
                the Company’s existing portfolio of leading
                brands;

·

Developing
                new products, new packaging and line
                extensions;

·

Diversifying
                the Company’s product portfolio with an emphasis on premium spirits and
                premium, super-premium and fine
                wines;

·

Diversifying
                geographic markets with a focus on expansion in Canada, Western Europe,
                Eastern Europe and Japan;

·

Strengthening
                its relationships with wholesalers

and
                retailers;

·

Expanding
                its distribution and enhancing its production
                capabilities;

·

Realizing
                operating synergies; and

·

Acquiring
                additional management, operational, marketing, and product development
                expertise.

As
      part
      of the Company’s strategy outlined above, on April 2, 2006, the Company entered
      into an arrangement agreement with Vincor International Inc. (“Vincor”) under
      which, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, the Company will
      acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Vincor at a cash
      price of Cdn$36.50 per common share. The transaction, including Vincor’s
      outstanding indebtedness, is valued at approximately Cdn$1.5 billion and is
      currently expected to be completed in early June 2006. Vincor is Canada’s
      largest producer and marketer of wines, and as such, Canada would become a
      core
      market for the Company. Vincor is also a marketer of wine in the United Kingdom,
      including the leading South African wine, and a producer and marketer of
      premium, super-premium and fine wines from California, Washington State, Western
      Australia and New Zealand. Vincor’s well-known brands include Inniskillin,
      Jackson-Triggs, Sumac Ridge, Hawthorne Mountain, Sawmill Creek, Notre Vin
      Maison, Entre-Lacs, L’Ambiance, Caballero de Chile, Spumante Bambino, President
      Canadian Champagne, and Okanagan Vineyards, all of which are produced in Canada.
      In addition, R.H. Phillips, Toasted Head, and Hogue are produced in the United
      States, Goundrey and Amberley are produced in Australia, Kim Crawford is
      produced in New Zealand and Kumala is produced in South
      Africa.


Recent
      Acquisitions and Equity Method Investments

In
      December 2004, the Company acquired The Robert Mondavi Corporation (“Robert
      Mondavi”), a leading premium wine producer based in Napa, California.

Through
      this transaction, the Company acquired various additional winery and vineyard
      interests, and, additionally produces, markets and sells premium, super-premium
      and fine California wines

under
      the
      Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Robert Mondavi Private Selection and Robert
      Mondavi Winery brand names. Woodbridge and Robert Mondavi Private Selection
      are
      the leading domestic premium and super-premium wine brands, respectively, in
      the
      United States.

As a
      result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company acquired an ownership
      interest in Opus One, a joint venture owned equally by Robert Mondavi and Baron
      Philippe de Rothschild, S.A. During September 2005, the Company’s president and
      Baroness Philippine de Rothschild announced an agreement to maintain equal
      ownership of Opus One. Opus One produces fine wines at its Napa Valley
      winery.

The
      acquisition of Robert Mondavi supports the Company’s strategy of strengthening
      the breadth of its portfolio across price segments to capitalize on the overall
      growth in the premium, super-premium and fine wine categories. The Company
      believes that the acquired Robert Mondavi brand names have strong brand
      recognition globally. The vast majority of Robert Mondavi’s sales are generated
      in the United States. The Company is leveraging the Robert Mondavi brands in
      the
      United States through its selling, marketing and distribution infrastructure.
      The Company also intends to further expand distribution for the Robert Mondavi
      brands in Europe through its Constellation Europe infrastructure.

Distribution
      of the Robert Mondavi Woodbridge brand in the U.K. market is underway and the
      brand has been introduced into most major U.K. retailers.

In
      December 2004, the Company purchased a 40% interest in Ruffino S.r.l.
      (“Ruffino”), the well-known Italian fine wine company, and in February 2005, the
      Constellation Wines segment began distributing Ruffino’s products in the United
      States. Also in December 2004, the Company became a 50% owner in a joint venture
      with jstar Brands called Planet 10 Spirits. The objective of Planet 10 Spirits
      is to create and market premium spirit brands in the United States and key
      export markets. The first product from this joint venture is Effen Vodka, a
      luxury brand imported from Holland.

In
      April
      2003, the Company completed the acquisition of BRL Hardy Limited, now known
      as
      Hardy Wine Company Limited (“Hardy”), Australia’s largest producer of wine,
      which enhanced the Company’s overall growth prospects and gave the Company an
      immediate presence in the Australian domestic and export markets. As a result
      of
      the acquisition of Hardy, the Company also acquired the remaining 50% ownership
      of Pacific Wine Partners LLC (“PWP”), the joint venture the Company established
      with Hardy in July 2001 that produces, markets and sells a portfolio of premium
      wine in the United States, including a range of Australian imports. The
      acquisition of Hardy along with the remaining interest in PWP is referred to
      together as the “Hardy Acquisition.” Among the well-known brands acquired in the
      Hardy Acquisition are Banrock Station, Hardys Nottage Hill, Hardys Stamp and
      VR,
      Eileen Hardy, Sir James, Omni, Nobilo, Leasingham and Houghton. In October
      2005,
      PWP was merged into another subsidiary of the Company.

For
      more
      information about these transactions,

see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Business
      Segments

The
      Company’s internal organization structure consists of two business divisions,
      Constellation Wines and Constellation Beers and Spirits. Consequently, the
      Company reports its operating results in three segments: Constellation Wines
      (branded wine, and U.K. wholesale and other), Constellation Beers and Spirits
      (imported beers and distilled spirits) and Corporate Operations and Other.
      The
      business segments, described more fully below, reflect how the Company’s
      operations are being managed, how operating performance within the Company
      is
      being evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial
      reporting.

Information
      regarding net sales, operating income and total assets of each of the Company’s
      business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in
      Note 22 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of
      this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Constellation
      Wines

Constellation
      Wines is the leading producer and marketer of wine in the world. It sells a
      large number of wine brands across all categories - table wine, sparkling wine
      and dessert wine - and across all price points - popular, premium, super-premium
      and fine wine. The portfolio of super-premium and fine wines is supported by
      vineyard holdings in the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Chile. As
      the
      largest producer and marketer of wine in the world, Constellation Wines has
      leading market positions in several countries.

It
      is a
      leading producer and marketer of wine in the United States, Australia and New
      Zealand and the largest marketer of wine in the United Kingdom.

Wine
      produced by the Company in the United States is primarily marketed domestically
      and in the United Kingdom. Wine produced in Australia and New Zealand is
      primarily marketed domestically and in the United States and United Kingdom,
      while wine produced in Chile is primarily marketed in the United States and
      United Kingdom. In addition, Constellation Wines exports its wine products
      to
      other major wine consuming markets of the world.

In
      the
      United States, Constellation Wines sells 19 of the top-selling


table
      wine brands and has one of the largest fine wine portfolios. In the United
      Kingdom, it has seven of the top-selling 20 table wine brands and the best
      selling brand of fortified British wine. In Australia, it has wine brands across
      all price points and varieties, including a comprehensive range of premium
      wine
      brands, and has 5 of the top-selling 20 wine brands and is the largest producer
      of cask (box) wines.

Constellation
      Wines’ well-known wine brands include Robert Mondavi Winery, Simi, Franciscan
      Oakville Estate, Estancia, Ravenswood, Blackstone, Robert Mondavi Private
      Selection, Ruffino, Alice White, Nobilo, Hardys, Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi,
      Vendange, Arbor Mist, Almaden, and Stowells.

Constellation
      Wines is also the leading independent beverage wholesaler to the on-premise
      trade in the United Kingdom and has more than 20,000 on-premise accounts. The
      wholesaling business involves the distribution of wine, distilled spirits,
      cider, beer, RTDs and soft drinks. These products include Constellation Wines’
branded wine, cider and water products, and products produced by other major
      drinks companies.

Constellation
      Wines is also the second largest producer and marketer of cider in the United
      Kingdom, with leading cider brands Blackthorn and Gaymer’s Olde English, and
      produces and markets Strathmore, the leading bottled water brand in the United
      Kingdom on-premise market.

In
      conjunction with its wine production, Constellation Wines produces and sells
      bulk wine and other related products and services.


Constellation
      Beers and Spirits

Constellation
      Beers and Spirits imports and markets a diversified line of beer and produces,
      bottles, imports and markets a diversified line of distilled spirits. It is
      the
      largest marketer of imported beer in 25 primarily western U.S. states, where
      it
      has exclusive rights to distribute the Mexican brands in its portfolio, Corona
      Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Pacifico, and Negra Modelo. Constellation
      Beers and Spirits has exclusive distribution rights to the entire United States
      for the St. Pauli Girl brand, the number two selling German Beer, and Tsingtao
      brand, the number one selling Chinese Beer. All of the segments’ Mexican brands
      and St. Pauli Girl brand

are
      among
      the top-selling 20 imported beer brands in the United States. Corona Extra
      is
      the best selling imported beer in the United States and the sixth best selling
      beer overall in the United States.

Constellation
      Beers and Spirits is a leading producer and marketer of distilled spirits in
      the
      United States. The majority of the segment’s distilled spirits unit volume
      consists of products marketed in the value and mid-premium priced category.
      Principal distilled spirits brands include Black Velvet, Barton, Sköl,
      Fleischmann’s, Canadian LTD, Montezuma, Ten High, Chi-Chi’s prepared cocktails,
      Mr. Boston, Inver House, and Monte Alban.

The
      segment is continuing efforts to increase its premium spirits offerings, with
      brands that include Black Velvet Reserve, the 99 Schnapps family, Effen Vodka,
      Ridgemont Reserve 1792, Meukow Cognac and Cocktails by Jenn.

Constellation
      Beers and Spirits also sells bulk distilled spirits and other related products
      and services.

Corporate
      Operations and Other

The
      Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate-related
      items

including
      executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, human resources,
      internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global information
      technology and global strategic sourcing.

Marketing
      and Distribution

The
      Company employs full-time, in-house marketing, sales and customer service
      organizations within its segments to maintain a high degree of focus on each
      of
      its product categories. The organizations use a range of marketing strategies
      and tactics to build brand equity and increase sales, including market research,
      consumer and trade advertising, price promotions, point-of-sale materials,
      event
      sponsorship,

on-premise
      promotions and public relations. Where opportunities exist, particularly with
      national accounts, the Company leverages its sales and marketing skills across
      the organization and categories.

In
      North
      America, the Company’s products are primarily distributed by approximately 700
      wholesale distributors as well as state and provincial alcoholic beverage
      control agencies. As is the case with all other beverage alcohol companies,
      products sold through state or provincial alcoholic beverage control agencies
      are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell the Company’s products
      in that agency’s state or province. State and provincial governments can affect
      prices paid by consumers of the Company’s products. This is possible either
      through the imposition of taxes or, in states and provinces in which the
      government acts as the distributor of the Company’s products through an
      alcoholic beverage control agency, by directly setting retail prices for the
      Company’s products.


In
        the
        United Kingdom the Company’s products are distributed either directly to
        retailers or through wholesalers and importers. The Company’s U.K. wholesaling
        business sells and distributes the Company’s branded products and those of other
        major drinks companies to on-premise locations through a network of depots
        located throughout the United Kingdom. In Australasia and other markets,
        the
        Company’s products are primarily distributed either directly to retailers or
        through wholesalers and importers. In the United Kingdom and Australasia,
        the
        distribution channels are dominated by a small number of industry
        leaders.

Trademarks
        and Distribution Agreements

Trademarks
        are an important aspect of the Company’s business. The Company sells its
        products under a number of trademarks, which the Company owns or uses under
        license. Throughout its segments, the Company also has various licenses and
        distribution agreements for the sale, or the production and sale of its products
        and products of third parties. These licenses and distribution agreements
        have
        varying terms and durations. Agreements include, among others, a long-term
        license agreement with Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc., which expires in 2116, for
        the Ten High, Crystal Palace, Northern Light, Lauder’s and Imperial Spirits
        brands, and a long-term license agreement with Chi-Chi’s, Inc., which expires in
        2117, for the production, marketing and sale of beverage products, alcoholic
        and
        non-alcoholic, utilizing the Chi-Chi’s brand name.

All
        of
        the Company’s imported beer products are marketed and sold pursuant to exclusive
        distribution agreements with the suppliers of these products. These agreements
        have terms that vary and prohibit the Company from importing other beer from
        other producers from the same country. The Company’s agreement to distribute
        Corona Extra and other Mexican beer brands exclusively throughout 25 primarily
        western U.S. states expires in December 2006 and, subject to compliance with
        certain performance criteria, continued retention of certain Company personnel
        and other terms under the agreement, will be automatically renewed for
        additional terms of five years. Changes in control of the Company or of its
        subsidiaries involved in importing the Mexican beer brands, changes in the
        position of the Chief Executive Officer of Barton Beers, Ltd., including
        by
        death or disability, or the termination of the President of Barton Incorporated,
        may be a basis for the supplier, unless it consents to such changes, to
        terminate the agreement. The supplier’s consent to such changes may not be
        unreasonably withheld. Prior to their expiration, all of the Company’s imported
        beer distribution agreements may be terminated if the Company fails to meet
        certain performance criteria. The Company believes it is currently in compliance
        with its material imported beer distribution agreements. From time to time,
        the
        Company has failed, and may in the future fail, to satisfy certain performance
        criteria in its distribution agreements. Although there can be no assurance
        that
        the Company’s material beer distribution agreements will be renewed, given the
        Company’s long-term relationships with its suppliers, the Company expects that
        such agreements will be renewed prior to their expiration and does not believe
        that these agreements will be terminated.

Competition

The
        beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. The Company competes on
        the
        basis of quality, price, brand recognition and distribution strength. The
        Company’s beverage alcohol products compete with other alcoholic and
        non-alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in
        retail
        stores, restaurant presence and wholesaler attention. The Company competes
        with
        numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage alcohol products,
        some of which may have greater resources than the Company.


Constellation
        Wines’ principal wine competitors include: E & J Gallo Winery, The Wine
        Group, Foster’s Group, and Kendall-Jackson in the United States; Diageo, E &
J Gallo Winery, Pernod Ricard and Foster’s Group in the United Kingdom; and
        Foster’s Group and Pernod Ricard in Australia. Its U.K. wholesale business
        competes with major brewers who also have wholesale operations, in particular,
        Scottish and Newcastle UK,

Molson
        Coors,

InBev
        and Carlsberg UK, and other independent national and regional wholesalers.
        Constellation Wines’ principal cider competitor is Scottish and Newcastle
        UK.

Constellation
        Beers and Spirits’ principal competitors include: Heineken, InBev,

Molson
        Coors

,
        and
        Diageo in the imported beer category as well as domestic producers such as
        Anheuser-Busch,

Molson
        Coors

and
        SABMiller; and Diageo, Fortune Brands, Bacardi,

Pernod
        Ricard

and
        Brown-Forman in the distilled spirits category.

Production

In
        the
        United States, the Company operates 19 wineries where wine is produced from
        many
        varieties of grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey and San
        Joaquin regions of California. In Australia, the Company operates 10 wineries
        where wine is produced from many varieties of grapes grown in most of the
        major
        viticultural regions. Grapes are crushed at most of the Company’s wineries and
        stored as wine until packaged for sale under the Company’s brand names or sold
        in bulk. In the United States, the Company’s inventories of wine are usually at
        their highest levels in September through November during and after the crush
        of
        each year’s grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush.
        Similarly, in Australia, the Company’s inventories of wine are usually at their
        highest levels in March through May during and after the crush of each year’s
        grape harvest, and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush. The Company
        also operates one winery in Chile and three wineries in New
        Zealand.

The
        Company has seven facilities for the production and bottling of its distilled
        spirits products. The bourbon whiskeys and domestic blended whiskeys marketed
        by
        the Company are primarily produced and aged by the Company at its distillery
        in
        Bardstown, Kentucky. The Company’s primary distilled spirits bottling facility
        in the United States is in Owensboro, Kentucky. The majority of the Company’s
        Canadian whisky requirements are produced and aged at its Canadian distilleries
        in Lethbridge, Alberta, and Valleyfield, Quebec. The Company’s requirements of
        Scotch whisky, tequila, mezcal and the neutral grain spirits it uses in the
        production of gin, vodka and other spirits products, are primarily purchased
        from various suppliers.

The
        Company

operates
        three facilities in the United Kingdom that produce, bottle and package wine,
        cider and water. To produce Stowells, wine is imported in bulk from various
        countries and packaged at the Company’s facility at Bristol, England

.
        The
        Bristol facility also produces fortified British wine and wine style drinks.
        All
        cider production takes place at the Company’s facility at Shepton Mallet,
        England. The Strathmore brand of bottled water is sourced and bottled in
        Forfar,
        Scotland.

Sources
        and Availability of Production Materials

The
        principal components in the production of the Company’s branded beverage alcohol
        products are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging
        materials (primarily glass).

Most
        of
        the Company’s annual grape requirements are satisfied by purchases from each
        year’s harvest which normally begins in August and runs through October in the
        United States and begins in February and runs through May in Australia. The
        Company believes that it has adequate sources of grape supplies to meet its
        sales expectations. However, in the event that demand for certain wine products
        exceed expectations, the Company would seek to source the extra requirements
        from the bulk wine markets, but could experience shortages.


The
        Company receives grapes from approximately 1,100 independent growers in the
        United States and 1,500 growers in Australia. The Company enters into written
        purchase agreements with a majority of these growers and pricing generally
        varies year-to-year and generally based on then-current market prices. In
        Australia, approximately 700 of the 1,500 growers belong to a grape growers’
cooperative. The Company purchases the majority of its Australian grape
        requirements from this cooperative under a long-term arrangement. In the
        United
        Kingdom, the Company produces wine from materials purchased either on a contract
        basis or on the open market.

At
        February 28, 2006, the Company owned or leased approximately

20,200

acres of
        land and vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California
        (U.S.), New York (U.S.), Australia, Chile and New Zealand. This acreage supplies
        only a small percentage of the Company’s overall total wine needs. However, most
        of this acreage is used to supply a large portion of the grapes used for
        the
        production of the Company’s super-premium and fine wines. The Company continues
        to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional
        land
        for vineyard plantings, to supplement its grape supply.

The
        distilled spirits manufactured by the Company require various agricultural
        products, neutral grain spirits and bulk spirits. The Company fulfills its
        requirements through purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement
        and through purchases on the open market. The Company believes that adequate
        supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the present
        time.

In
        the
        United Kingdom, the Company sources apples for cider production primarily
        through long-term supply arrangements with owners of apple orchards. The
        Company
        believes there are adequate supplies of apples at this particular
        time.

The
        Company utilizes glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) bottles and other
        materials such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags and cardboard
        cartons
        in the bottling and packaging of its products. Glass bottle costs are one
        of the
        largest components of the Company’s cost of product sold. In the United States
        and Australia, the glass bottle industry is highly concentrated with only
        a
        small number of producers. The Company has traditionally obtained, and continues
        to obtain, its glass requirements from a limited number of producers under
        long-term supply arrangements. Currently, most of the Company’s glass
        container requirements for its United States operations are supplied by one
        producer and substantially all of the Company’s glass container
        requirements for its Australian operations are supplied by another producer.
        The
        Company has not experienced difficulty in satisfying its requirements with
        respect to any of the foregoing and considers its sources of supply to be
        adequate. However, the inability of any of the Company’s glass bottle suppliers
        to satisfy the Company’s requirements could adversely affect the Company’s
        operations.

Government
        Regulation

The
        Company is subject to a range of regulations in the countries in which it
        operates. Where it produces products, the Company is subject to environmental
        laws and regulations and may be required to obtain permits and licenses to
        operate its facilities. Where it markets and sells products, it may be subject
        to laws and regulations on trademark and brand registration, packaging and
        labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes,
        sales promotions, advertising and public relations. The Company is also subject
        to rules and regulations relating to changes in officers or directors, ownership
        or control.


The
        Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with all
        applicable governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it
        operates. The Company also believes that the cost of administration and
        compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations does not
        have,
        and is not expected to have, a material adverse impact on its financial
        condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Seasonality

The
        beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category.
        As a
        result, in response to wholesaler and retailer demand which precedes consumer
        purchases, the Company’s wine and spirits sales are typically highest during the
        third quarter of its fiscal year, primarily due to seasonal holiday buying,
        and
        its imported beer sales are typically highest during the first and second
        quarters of the Company’s fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer
        periods in the United States.

Employees

As
        of the
        end of March 2006, the Company had approximately

7,900

full-time employees throughout the world. Approximately

3,700

full-time employees were in the United States and approximately

4,200

full-time employees were outside of the United States, in countries including
        Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand. Additional workers
        may be
        employed by the Company during the peak and grape crushing seasons. The Company
        considers its employee relations generally to be good.

Common
        Stock Splits

During
        April 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved two-for-one stock
        splits of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, which
        were distributed in the form of stock dividends on May 13, 2005, to stockholders
        of record on April 29, 2005. Pursuant to the terms of the stock dividends,
        each
        holder of Class A Common Stock received one additional share of Class A stock
        for each share of Class A stock held, and each holder of Class B Common Stock
        received one additional share of Class B stock for each share of Class B
        stock
        held.

Share
        and
        per share amounts have been retroactively restated to give effect to these
        common stock splits.

Company
        Information

The
        Company’s internet address is http://www.cbrands.com. The Company’s filings with
        the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including its annual report on
        Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
        amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
        or 15
        (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible free of charge
        at
        http://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company
        electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The
        SEC
        maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
        statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company,
        that
        file electronically with the SEC. The internet address of the SEC’s site is
        http://www.sec.gov. Also, the public may read and copy any materials that
        the
        Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
        N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation
        of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The
        Company has adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive
        Code of Ethics that specifically applies to its chief executive officer,
        its
        principal financial officer, and controller. This Chief Executive Officer
        and
        Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets the requirements as set forth
        in
        the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The Company
        has
        posted on its internet website a copy of the Chief Executive Officer and
        Senior
        Financial Officer Code of Ethics. It is accessible at
        http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/investors.htm.


The
        Company also has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies
        to
        all employees, directors and officers, including each person who is subject
        to
        the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics.
        The
        Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is also available on the Company’s internet
        website, together with its Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage
        Alcohol Advertising and Marketing, its Board of Directors Corporate Governance
        Guidelines and the Charters of the Board’s Audit Committee, Human Resources
        Committee (which serves as the Board’s compensation committee) and Corporate
        Governance Committee (which serves as the Board’s nominating committee). These
        materials are accessible at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/investors.htm.
        Additionally, amendments to, and waivers granted to the Company’s directors and
        executive officers under the Company’s codes of ethics, if any, will be posted
        in this area of the Company’s website. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct
        and Ethics, Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol
        Advertising and Marketing, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial
        Executive Code of Ethics, and/or the Board of Directors Corporate Governance
        Guidelines and committee charters are available in print to any shareholder
        who
        requests it. Shareholders should direct such requests in writing to Investor
        Relations Department, Constellation Brands, Inc., 370 Woodcliff Drive, Suite
        300, Fairport, New York 14450 or by telephoning the Company’s Investor Center at
        1-888-922-2150.

The
        foregoing information regarding the Company’s website and its content is for
        your convenience only. The content of the Company’s website is not deemed to be
        incorporated by reference in this report or filed with the SEC.

Item
        1A.

Risk
        Factors

In
        addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully
        consider the following factors which could materially affect our business,
        financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are
        not
        the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that
        we
        currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our
        business operations.

Our
        indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial
        health.

We
        have
        incurred substantial indebtedness to finance our acquisitions. In the future,
        we
        may incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance further acquisitions
        or
        for other purposes. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations outstanding
        from
        time to time will depend upon our future operating performance. We do not
        have
        complete control over our future operating performance because it is subject
        to
        prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business
        and other factors. We cannot assure you that our business will generate
        sufficient cash flow from operations to meet all of our debt service
        requirements and to fund our capital expenditure requirements.

Our
        current and future debt service obligations and covenants could have important
        consequences to you. These consequences include, or may include, the
        following:

·

Our
                ability to obtain financing for future working capital needs or
                acquisitions or other purposes may be
                limited;

·

Our
                funds available for operations, expansion or distributions will be
                reduced
                because we will dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from
                operations to the payment

of
                principal and interest on Our indebtedness and dividends on our Series
                A
                mandatory convertible preferred stock;

·

Our
                ability to conduct our business could be limited by restrictive covenants;
                and

·

Our
                vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be greater than
                less
                leveraged competitors and, thus, our ability to withstand competitive
                pressures may be limited.


Our
        senior credit facility and the indentures under which our debt securities
        have
        been issued contain restrictive covenants and provisions. These covenants
        and
        provisions affect our ability to grant additional liens, incur additional
        debt,
        sell assets, engage in changes of control, pay dividends, enter into
        transactions with affiliates, make investments and engage in certain other
        fundamental changes. Our senior credit facility also contains restrictions
        on
        our ability to make acquisitions and certain financial ratio tests, including
        a
        debt coverage ratio, a senior debt coverage ratio, a fixed charges ratio
        and an
        interest coverage ratio. These restrictions could limit our ability to conduct
        business. If we fail to comply with the obligations contained in the senior
        credit facility, our existing or future indentures or other loan agreements,
        we
        could be in default under such agreements, which could require us to immediately
        repay the related debt and also debt under other agreements that may contain
        cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions.

Our

acquisition and joint venture strategies may not be
        successful.

We
        have
        made a number of acquisitions, and we anticipate that we may, from time to
        time,
        acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we
        believe
        would provide a strategic fit with our business. We will need to integrate
        acquired businesses with our existing operations. We cannot assure you that
        we
        will effectively assimilate the business or product offerings of acquired
        companies into our business or product offerings. Integrating the operations
        and
        personnel of acquired companies into our existing operations may result in
        difficulties and expense, disrupt our business or divert management’s time and
        attention. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including potential
        exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss
        of
        key employees and customers of the acquired business.

In
        connection with acquisitions or joint venture investments outside the United
        States, we may enter into derivative contracts to purchase foreign currency
        in
        order to hedge against the risk of foreign currency fluctuations in connection
        with such acquisitions or joint venture investments, which subjects us to
        the
        risk of foreign currency fluctuations associated with such derivative
        contracts.

We
        have
        entered into joint ventures and may enter into additional joint ventures.
        We
        share control of our joint ventures. Our joint venture partners may at any
        time
        have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent
        with
        ours or the joint venture’s. In addition, our joint venture partners may be
        unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required
        to
        fulfill those obligations alone. Our failure or the failure of an entity
        in
        which we have a joint venture interest to adequately manage the risks associated
        with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect
        on
        our financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance
        that
        any of our acquisitions or joint ventures will be profitable.

Competition
        could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We
        are in
        a highly competitive industry and the dollar amount and unit volume of our
        sales
        could be negatively affected by our inability to maintain or increase prices,
        changes in geographic or product mix, a general decline in beverage alcohol
        consumption or the decision of wholesalers, retailers or consumers to purchase
        competitive products instead of our products. Wholesaler, retailer and consumer
        purchasing decisions are influenced by, among other things, the perceived
        absolute or relative overall value of our products, including their quality
        or
        pricing, compared to competitive products. Unit volume and dollar sales could
        also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising
        or
        promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and provincial agencies,
        and
        retailers which could affect their supply of, or consumer demand for, our
        products. We could also experience higher than expected selling, general
        and
        administrative expenses if we find it necessary to increase the number of
        our
        personnel or our advertising or promotional expenditures to maintain our
        competitive position or for other reasons.


An
        increase in excise taxes or government regulations could have a material
        adverse
        effect on our business.

The
        United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and other countries in which
        we
        operate impose excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products in varying
        amounts which have been subject to change. Significant increases in excise
        or
        other taxes on beverage alcohol products could materially and adversely affect
        our financial condition or results of operations. Recently, many U.S. states
        have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased,
        state alcohol excise taxes. In addition, federal, state, local and foreign
        governmental agencies extensively regulate the beverage alcohol products
        industry concerning such matters as licensing, trade and pricing practices,
        permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers
        and
        retailers. Certain federal and state regulations also require warning labels
        and
        signage. New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements
        or
        taxes could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
        or
        results of operations.

We
        rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, major retailers and chains
        for the success of our business.

In
        the
        United States, we sell our products principally to wholesalers for resale
        to
        retail outlets including grocery stores, package liquor stores, club and
        discount stores and restaurants. In the United Kingdom and Australia, we
        sell
        our products principally to wholesalers and directly to major retailers and
        chains. The replacement or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers
        or chains could materially and adversely affect our results of operations
        and
        financial condition. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from our
        major
        wholesalers, retailers or chains could also materially and adversely affect
        our
        results of operations and financial condition.

The
        industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the wholesale
        and retail distribution channels, particularly in Europe and the United States.
        If we are unable to successfully adapt to this changing environment, our
        net
        income, share of sales and volume growth could be negatively affected.

In
        addition, wholesalers and retailers of our products offer products which
        compete
        directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases.
        Accordingly, wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to products
        of
        our competitors. In the future, our wholesalers and retailers may not continue
        to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of
        promotional support.

Our
        business could be adversely affected by a decline in the consumption of products
        we sell.

Since
        1995, there have been modest increases in consumption of beverage alcohol
        in
        most of our product categories and geographic markets. There have been periods
        in the past, however, in which there were substantial declines in the overall
        per capita consumption of beverage alcohol products in the United States
        and
        other markets in which we participate. A limited or general decline in
        consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future
        due to a variety of factors, including:

·

A general
                decline in economic conditions;

·

Increased
                concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol
                products and about drinking and driving;

·

A trend
                toward a healthier diet including lighter, lower calorie beverages
                such as
                diet soft drinks, juices and water
                products;

·

The
                increased activity of anti-alcohol groups;
                and

·

Increased
                federal, state or foreign excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol
                products.


In
        addition, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to develop
        new
        products. The launch and ongoing success of new products are inherently
        uncertain especially with regard to their appeal to consumers. The launch
        of a
        new product can give rise to a variety of costs and an unsuccessful launch,
        among other things, can affect consumer perception of existing
        brands.

We
        generally purchase raw materials under short-term supply contracts, and we
        are
        subject to substantial price fluctuations for grapes and grape-related
        materials, and we have a limited group of suppliers of glass
        bottles.

Our
        business is heavily dependent upon raw materials, such as grapes, grape juice
        concentrate, grains, alcohol and packaging materials from third-party suppliers.
        We could experience raw material supply, production or shipment difficulties
        that could adversely affect our ability to supply goods to our customers.
        Increases in the costs of raw materials also directly affect us. In the past,
        we
        have experienced dramatic increases in the cost of grapes. Although we believe
        we have adequate sources of grape supplies, in the event demand for certain
        wine
        products exceed expectations, we could experience shortages.

The
        wine
        industry swings between cycles of grape oversupply and undersupply. In a
        severe
        oversupply environment, the ability of wine producers, including ourselves,
        to
        raise prices is limited, and, in certain situations, the competitive environment
        may put pressure on producers to lower prices. Further, although an oversupply
        may enhance opportunities to purchase grapes at lower costs, a producer’s
        selling and promotional expenses associated with the sale of its wine products
        can rise in such an environment.

Glass
        bottle costs are one of our largest components of cost of product sold. In
        the United States and Australia, glass bottles have only a small number of
        producers. Currently, one producer supplies most of our glass container
        requirements for our United States operations and another producer supplies
        substantially all of our glass container requirements for our Australian
        operations. The inability of any of our glass bottle suppliers to satisfy
        our
        requirements could adversely affect our business.

Our
        operations subject us to risks relating to currency rate fluctuations, interest
        rate fluctuations and geopolitical uncertainty which could have a material
        adverse effect on our business.

We
        have
        operations in different countries throughout the world and, therefore, are
        subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Subsequent to the
        Hardy
        Acquisition, our exposure to foreign currency risk increased significantly
        as a
        result of having additional international operations in Australia, New Zealand
        and the United Kingdom. We are also exposed to risks associated with interest
        rate fluctuations. We manage our exposure to foreign currency and interest
        rate
        risks utilizing derivative instruments and other means to reduce those risks.
        We, however, could experience changes in our ability to hedge against or
        manage
        fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates and,
        accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing
        those risks. We could also be affected by nationalizations or unstable
        governments or legal systems or intergovernmental disputes. These currency,
        economic and political uncertainties may have a material adverse effect on
        our
        results of operations, especially to the extent these matters, or the decisions,
        policies or economic strength of our suppliers, affect our global
        operations.


We
        have a material amount of goodwill, and if we are required to write-down
        goodwill, it would reduce our net income, which in turn could have a material
        adverse effect on our results of operations.

As
        of
        February 28, 2006, goodwill represented $2,193.6 million, or 29.6% of our
        total
        assets. Goodwill is the amount by which the costs of an acquisition accounted
        for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired.
        We adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
        Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
        Assets,” in its entirety, on March 1, 2002. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no
        longer amortized, but instead is subject to a periodic impairment evaluation
        based on the fair value of the reporting unit. Reductions in our net income
        caused by the write-down of goodwill could materially and adversely affect
        our
        results of operations.

The
        termination or non-renewal of our imported beer distribution agreements could
        have a material adverse effect on our business.

We
        market
        and sell all of our imported beer products pursuant to exclusive distribution
        agreements with the suppliers of these products that are subject to renewal
        from
        time to time. Our agreement to distribute Corona Extra and our other Mexican
        beer brands in 25 primarily western U.S. states expires in December 2006
        and,
        subject to compliance with certain performance criteria, continued retention
        of
        certain personnel and other terms of the agreement, will be automatically
        renewed for additional terms of five years. Changes in control of us or our
        subsidiaries involved in importing the Mexican beer brands, or changes in
        the
        chief executive officer of such subsidiaries, may be a basis for the supplier,
        unless it consents to such changes, to terminate the agreement. The supplier’s
        consent to such changes may not be unreasonably withheld. Prior to their
        expiration, all of our imported beer distribution agreements may be terminated
        if we fail to meet certain performance criteria. We believe that we are
        currently in compliance with all of our material imported beer distribution
        agreements. From time to time we have failed, and may in the future fail,
        to
        satisfy certain performance criteria in our distribution agreements. It is
        possible that our beer distribution agreements may not be renewed or may
        be
        terminated prior to expiration.

Class
        action or other litigation relating to alcohol abuse or the misuse of alcohol
        could adversely affect our business.

There
        has
        been increased public attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry,
        which
        we believe is due to concern over problems related to alcohol abuse, including
        drinking and driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the
        misuse
        of alcohol. Several beverage alcohol producers have been sued in several
        courts
        regarding alleged advertising practices relating to underage consumers. Adverse
        developments in these or similar lawsuits or a significant decline in the
        social
        acceptability of beverage alcohol products that results from these lawsuits
        could materially adversely affect our business.

We
        depend upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, and any failure to protect
        our intellectual property rights or any claims that we are infringing upon
        the
        rights of others may adversely affect our competitive
        position.

Our
        future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current
        and
        future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights.
        We
        have been granted numerous trademark registrations covering our brands and
        products and have filed, and expect to continue to file, trademark applications
        seeking to protect newly-developed brands and products. We cannot be sure
        that
        trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of our trademark
        applications. There is also a risk that we could, by omission, fail to timely
        renew a trademark or that our competitors will challenge, invalidate or
        circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by,
        us.


Contamination
      could harm the integrity or customer support for our brands and adversely affect
      the sales of our products.

The
      success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of
      those brands. Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate
      third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support
      for those brands, could adversely affect their sales. Contaminants in raw
      materials purchased from third parties and used in the production of our wine
      and spirits products or defects in the distillation or fermentation process
      could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to,
      consumers of our products and may result in reduced sales of the affected brand
      or all of our brands.

An
      increase in the cost of energy could affect our
      profitability.

Recently,
      we have experienced significant increases in energy costs, and energy costs
      could continue to rise, which would result in higher transportation, freight
      and
      other operating costs. Our future operating expenses and margins will be
      dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases. We cannot
      guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased energy costs to our
      customers through increased prices.

Our
      reliance upon complex information systems distributed worldwide and our reliance
      upon third party global networks means we could experience interruptions to
      our
      business services.

We
      depend
      on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface
      with
      customers, as well as maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do
      not
      allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build and sustain
      the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors,
      processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or
      the
      loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. As with
      all
      large systems, our information systems could be penetrated by outside parties
      intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business
      processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result
      in the loss of assets.

Changes
      in accounting standards and taxation requirements could affect our financial
      results.

New
      accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to us from
      time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and
      pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for
      the
      affected periods. We are also subject to income tax in the numerous
      jurisdictions in which we generate revenues. In addition, our products are
      subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many
      jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in income tax rates could reduce
      our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions, while increases in indirect
      taxes could affect our products' affordability and therefore reduce our
      sales.

Various
      diseases, pests and certain weather conditions could affect quality and quantity
      of grapes.

Various
      diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts and certain other weather
      conditions could affect the quality and quantity of grapes available, decreasing
      the supply of our products and negatively impacting profitability. We cannot
      guarantee that our grape suppliers will succeed in preventing contamination
      in
      existing vineyards or that we will succeed in preventing contamination in our
      existing vineyards or future vineyards we may acquire. Future government
      restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in grape growing may
      increase vineyard costs and/or reduce production. Grape growing also requires
      adequate water supplies. A substantial reduction in water supplies could result
      in material losses of grape crops and vines, which could lead to a shortage
      of
      our product supply.


Item
      1B.

Unresolved
      Staff Comments

Not
      Applicable.

Item
      2.

Properties

Through
      its business segments, the Company operates wineries, distilling plants,
      bottling plants, and cider and water producing facilities, most of which include
      warehousing and distribution facilities on the premises. The Company also
      operates separate distribution centers under the Constellation Wines segment’s
      wholesaling business. In addition to the Company’s properties described below,
      certain of the Company’s businesses maintain office space for sales and similar
      activities and offsite warehouse and distribution facilities in a variety of
      geographic locations.

The
      Company believes that its facilities, taken as a whole, are in good condition
      and working order and have adequate capacity to meet its needs for the
      foreseeable future.

The
      following discussion details the properties associated with the Company’s three
      business segments.

Constellation
      Wines

Through
      the Constellation Wines segment, the Company maintains facilities in the United
      States, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Chile and the Republic
      of
      Ireland. These facilities include wineries, bottling plants, cider and water
      producing facilities, warehousing and distribution facilities, distribution
      centers and office facilities. The segment maintains owned and/or leased
      division offices in Canandaigua, New York; St. Helena, California; Gonzales,
      California; Reynella, South Australia; Bristol, England and Guildford,
      England.

United
      States

In
      the
      United States, the Company through its Constellation Wines segment operates
      two
      wineries in New York, located in Canandaigua and Naples; 14 wineries in
      California, located in Acampo, Gonzales, Healdsburg, Kenwood, Oakville, Soledad,
      Rutherford, Ukiah, two in Lodi, two in Madera and two in Sonoma; two wineries
      in
      Washington, located in Woodinville and Sunnyside; and one winery in Caldwell,
      Idaho. All of these wineries are owned, except for the wineries in Caldwell
      (Idaho) and Woodinville (Washington), which are leased. The Constellation Wines
      segment considers its principal wineries in the United States to be the Mission
      Bell winery in Madera (California), the Canandaigua winery in Canandaigua (New
      York), the Ravenswood wineries in Sonoma (California), the Franciscan Vineyards
      winery in Rutherford (California), the Woodbridge Winery in Acampo (California),
      the Turner Road Vintners Winery in Lodi (California), the Robert Mondavi Winery
      in Oakville (California) and the Blackstone Winery in Gonzales (California).
      The
      Mission Bell winery crushes grapes, produces, bottles and distributes wine
      and
      produces specialty concentrates and Mega Colors for sale. The Canandaigua winery
      crushes grapes and produces, bottles and distributes wine. The other principal
      wineries crush grapes, vinify, cellar and bottle wine.

Through
      the Constellation Wines segment, as of February 28, 2006, the Company owned
      or
      leased approximately

10,100

acres of
      vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in California and New
      York
      to supply a portion of the grapes used in the production of wine.


Australasia

Through
      the Constellation Wines segment, the Company owns and operates

      Australian wineries, five of which are in South Australia, two in Western
      Australia and the other three in New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory
      and Tasmania. Additionally, through this segment the Company also owns three
      wineries in New Zealand. All but one of these Australasian wineries crush
      grapes, vinify and cellar wine. Five include bottling and/or packaging
      operations. The facility in Reynella, South Australia bottles a significant
      portion of the wine produced in Australia, produces all Australian sparkling
      wines and cellars wines. The Company considers the segment’s principal
      facilities in Australasia to be the Berri Estates winery located in Glossop
      and
      the bottling facility located in Reynella, both in South Australia.

Through
      the Constellation Wines segment, the Company owns or has interests in
      approximately

6,300

plantable acres of vineyards in South Australia, the Australian Capital
      Territory, Western Australia, Victoria, and Tasmania, and approximately

2,500

acres of
      vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in New
      Zealand.

Europe

Through
      the Constellation Wines segment, in the United Kingdom the Company owns and
      operates two facilities in England, located in Bristol and Shepton Mallet and
      one facility in Scotland, located in Forfar. The Bristol facility is considered
      a principal facility and produces, bottles and packages wine; the Shepton Mallet
      facility produces, bottles and packages cider; and the Forfar facility produces,
      bottles and packages water products.

Through
      this segment, the Company operates a National Distribution Centre, located
      at a
      leased facility in Severnside, Bristol, England, together with two leased
      satellite facilities within the same region, to distribute the Company’s
      products that are produced at the Bristol and Shepton Mallet facilities as
      well
      as products imported from other wine suppliers. To support its wholesaling
      business, the Company operates 11 physical distribution centers located
      throughout the United Kingdom, 10 of which are leased, as well as two virtual
      depots and two satellite depots. These distribution centers and depots are
      used
      to distribute products produced by the Company, as well as by third
      parties.

Additionally,
      through the Constellation Wines segment, the Company leases warehouse and office
      facilities in Dublin and has contracted with a third party with respect to
      a
      depot in Cork in support of the Company’s business of marketing, storing and
      distributing alcoholic beverages in the Republic of Ireland.

Chile

Through
      the Constellation Wines segment, the Company also operates, through a majority
      owned subsidiary, a winery in the Casablanca Valley, Chile, that crushes grapes
      and vinifies, cellars and bottles wine. Through this segment, the Company also
      owns or leases approximately

1,300

acres of
      vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in Chile for the
      production of wine.

Constellation
      Beers and Spirits

Through
      the Constellation Beers and Spirits segment, the Company maintains leased
      division offices in Chicago, Illinois. On behalf of the segment’s imported beer
      business, the Company contracts with five providers of warehouse space and
      services in eight locations throughout the United States.


Through
      this segment, the Company owns and operates four distilling plants, two in
      the
      United States and two in Canada. The two distilling plants in the United States
      are located in Bardstown, Kentucky and Albany, Georgia. The two distilling
      plants in Canada are located in Valleyfield, Quebec and Lethbridge, Alberta.
      The
      Company considers this segment’s principal distilling plants to be the
      facilities located in Bardstown (Kentucky), Valleyfield (Quebec) and Lethbridge
      (Alberta). The Bardstown facility distills, bottles and warehouses distilled
      spirits products for the Company and, on a contractual basis, for other industry
      members. The two Canadian facilities distill, bottle and store Canadian whisky
      for the segment, and distill and/or bottle and store Canadian whisky, vodka,
      rum, gin and liqueurs for third parties.

In
      the
      United States, the Company through its Constellation Beers and Spirits segment
      also operates three bottling plants, located in Atlanta, Georgia; Owensboro,
      Kentucky and Carson, California. The facilities located in Atlanta (Georgia)
      and
      Owensboro (Kentucky) are owned, while the facility in Carson (California) is
      leased. The Company considers this segment’s bottling plant located in Owensboro
      to be one of the segment’s principal facilities. The Owensboro facility bottles
      and warehouses distilled spirits products for the segment and is also utilized
      for contract bottling.

Corporate
      Operations and Other

The
      Company’s corporate headquarters are located in leased offices in Fairport, New
      York.

Item
      3.

Legal
      Proceedings

In
      the
      course of their business, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to
      litigation from time to time. Although the amount of any liability with respect
      to such litigation cannot be determined, in the opinion of management, such
      liability will not have a material adverse effect on

the
      Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Item
      4.

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not
      Applicable.


Executive
      Officers of the Company

Information
      with respect to the current executive officers of the Company is as
      follows:

Richard
      Sands, Ph.D., is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the
      Company. He has been employed by the Company in various capacities since 1979.
      He was elected Chief Executive Officer in October 1993 and has served as a
      director since 1982. In September 1999, Mr. Sands was elected Chairman of the
      Board. He served as Executive Vice President from 1982 to May 1986, as President
      from May 1986 to December 2002 and as Chief Operating Officer from May 1986
      to
      October 1993. He is the brother of Robert Sands.

Robert
      Sands is President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. He was appointed
      to these positions in December 2002 and has served as a director since January
      1990. Mr. Sands also served as Group President from April 2000 through December
      2002, as Chief Executive Officer, International from December 1998 through
      April
      2000, as Executive Vice President from October 1993 through April 2000, as
      General Counsel from June 1986 through May 2000, and as Vice President from
      June
      1990 through October 1993. He is the brother of Richard Sands.

Alexander
      L. Berk is the Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Beers and Spirits and
      the President and Chief Executive Officer of Barton Incorporated. Since 1990
      and
      prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of Barton Incorporated in March 1998,
      Mr. Berk was President and Chief Operating Officer of Barton Incorporated and
      from 1988 to 1990, he was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Schenley
      Industries. Mr. Berk has been in the beverage alcohol industry for most of
      his
      career, serving in various positions.

F.
      Paul
      Hetterich has been the Company’s Executive Vice President, Business Development
      and Corporate Strategy since June 2003. From April 2001 to June 2003, Mr.
      Hetterich served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, Corporate Development.
      Prior to that, Mr. Hetterich held several increasingly senior positions in
      the
      Company’s marketing and business development groups. Mr. Hetterich has been with
      the Company since 1986.

Thomas
      J.
      Mullin joined the Company as Executive Vice President and General Counsel in
      May
      2000. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mullin served as President and Chief
      Executive Officer of TD Waterhouse Bank, NA, a national banking association,
      since February 2000, of CT USA, F.S.B. since September 1998, and of CT USA,
      Inc.
      since March 1997. He also served as Executive Vice President, Business
      Development and Corporate Strategy of C.T. Financial Services, Inc. from March
      1997 through February 2000. From 1985 through 1997, Mr. Mullin served as Vice
      Chairman and Senior Executive Vice President of First Federal Savings and Loan
      Association of Rochester, New York and from 1982 through 1985, he was a partner
      in the law firm of Phillips, Lytle, Hitchcock, Blaine & Huber.


Thomas
      S.
      Summer joined the Company in April l997 as Senior Vice President and Chief
      Financial Officer and in April 2000 was elected Executive Vice President. From
      November 1991 to April 1997, Mr. Summer served as Vice President, Treasurer
      of
      Cardinal Health, Inc., a large national health care services company, where
      he
      was responsible for directing financing strategies and treasury matters. Prior
      to that, from November 1987 to November 1991, Mr. Summer held several positions
      in corporate finance and international treasury with PepsiCo, Inc.

W.
      Keith
      Wilson joined the Company in January 2002 as Senior Vice President, Human
      Resources, and in September 2002, he was elected Chief Human Resources Officer
      and in April 2003 he was elected Executive Vice President. From 1999 to 2001,
      Mr. Wilson served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources of Xerox
      Engineering Systems, a subsidiary of Xerox Corporation, that engineers,
      manufactures and sells hi-tech reprographics equipment and software worldwide.
      From 1990 to 1999, he served in various senior human resource positions with
      the
      banking, marketing and real estate and relocation businesses of Prudential
      Life
      Insurance of America, an insurance company that also provides other financial
      products.

Executive
      officers of the Company are generally chosen or elected to their positions
      annually and hold office until the earlier of their removal or resignation
      or
      until their successors are chosen and qualified.

Until
      February 28, 2006, Stephen B. Millar, 62, was the Chief Executive Officer of
      Constellation Wines and had held this position since the closing of the Hardy
      Acquisition. Prior to the Company’s acquisition of Hardy, Mr. Millar was Hardy’s
      Managing Director and had held this position since 1991. Mr. Millar currently
      serves in leadership roles in a number of industry organizations. He is an
      Executive Council Member, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Deputy Chairman
      of
      the International Trade Advisory Committee of the Winemakers’ Federation of
      Australia. He also serves as the President of the Australian Wine and Brandy
      Producers’ Association, as a Council Member of the South Australian Wine
      Industry Council and the Australian Wine Research Institute and as a Director
      of
      Drink Wise Australia Limited. Effective February 28, 2006, Mr. Millar retired
      from the position of Chief Executive Officer of Constellation Wines. That
      position has not been filled. Mr. Millar remains in a non-executive employment
      relationship with the Company.


PART
      II

Item
                5.

Market
                for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
                Purchases of Equity
                Securities

The
      Company’s Class A Common Stock (the “Class A Stock”) and Class B Common Stock
      (the “Class B Stock”) trade on the New York Stock Exchange

Ò

(“NYSE”)
      under the symbols STZ and STZ.B, respectively. The following tables set forth
      for the periods indicated the high and low sales prices of the Class A Stock
      and
      the Class B Stock as reported on the NYSE.

During
      April 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors approved two-for-one splits of the
      Company’s Class A Stock and Class B Stock, which were distributed in the form of
      stock dividends on May 13, 2005, to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005.
      Prices in the following tables have been adjusted to give effect to these common
      stock splits.

At

April
      14,

,
      the
      number of holders of record of Class A Stock and Class B Stock of the Company
      were 1,035 and 219, respectively.

With
      respect to its common stock, the Company’s policy is to retain all of its
      earnings to finance the development and expansion of its business, and the
      Company has not paid any cash dividends on its common stock since its initial
      public offering in 1973. In addition, under the terms of the Company’s senior
      credit facility, the Company is currently constrained from paying cash dividends
      on its common stock. Also, the indentures for the Company’s outstanding senior
      notes and senior subordinated notes may restrict the payment of cash dividends
      on its common stock under certain circumstances. Any indentures for debt
      securities issued in the future and any credit agreements entered into in the
      future may also restrict or prohibit the payment of cash dividends on common
      stock. During April 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors approved two-for-one
      stock splits of the Company’s Class A Stock and Class B Stock, which were
      distributed in the form of stock dividends on May 13, 2005, to stockholders
      of
      record on April 29, 2005. Share and per share amounts have been retroactively
      restated to give effect to these common stock splits.


Item
        6.

Selected
        Financial Data


(1)

Effective
                  March 1, 2003, the Company completed its adoption of Statement
                  of
                  Financial Accounting Standards No. 145 (“SFAS No. 145”), “Rescission of
                  FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement
                  No. 13, and
                  Technical Corrections.” Accordingly, the adoption of the provisions
                  rescinding Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 4 (“SFAS No.
                  4”), “Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt,” resulted in
                  a reclassification of the extraordinary loss related to the extinguishment
                  of debt recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 ($1.6 million,
                  net
                  of income taxes), by increasing selling, general and administrative
                  expenses ($2.6 million) and decreasing the provision for income
                  taxes
                  ($1.0 million).

(2)

For
                  a detailed discussion of acquisition-related integration costs
                  for the
                  years ended February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, see Management’s
                  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                  under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption
“Fiscal
                  2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 - Acquisition-Related Integration
                  Costs” and
                  “Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 - Acquisition-Related Integration
                  Costs,” respectively.

(3)

For
                  a detailed discussion of restructuring and related charges for
                  the years
                  ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004,
                  see
                  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
                  Operations under Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under
                  the
                  captions “Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 - Restructuring and Related
                  Charges” and “Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 - Restructuring and
                  Related Charges,” respectively.

(4)

All
                  per share data have been adjusted to give effect to the two-for-one
                  splits
                  of the Company’s two classes of common stock, which were distributed in
                  the form of stock dividends in May
                  2005.

(5)

Effective
                  June 1, 2004, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 03-6 (“EITF No. 03-6”),
                  “Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement
                  No. 128.” EITF No. 03-6 clarifies what is meant by a “participating
                  security,” provides guidance on applying the two-class method for
                  computing earnings per share, and required affected companies to
                  retroactively restate earnings per share amounts for all periods
                  presented. Under EITF No. 03-6, the Company’s Class B Convertible Common
                  Stock is considered a participating security requiring the use
                  of the
                  two-class method for the computation of earnings per common share
                  - basic,
                  rather than the if-converted method  which was previously used.
                  Accordingly, earnings per common share - basic reflects the application
                  of
                  EITF No. 03-6 and has been computed using the two-class method
                  for all
                  periods presented.

For
        the
        years ended February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, see Management’s
        Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
        under
        Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Consolidated Financial
        Statements and notes thereto under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form
        10-K.

Effective
        March 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
        No. 142 (“SFAS No. 142”), “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” SFAS No. 142
        addresses financial accounting and reporting for acquired goodwill and other
        intangible assets and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
        17,
“Intangible Assets.” Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and indefinite lived
        intangible assets are no longer amortized but are reviewed at least annually
        for
        impairment. Intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite life
        will continue to be amortized over their useful lives and are subject to
        review
        for impairment. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company determined that
        certain of its intangible assets met the criteria to be considered indefinite
        lived and, accordingly, ceased their amortization effective March 1, 2002.
        These
        intangible assets consisted principally of trademarks. The Company’s trademarks
        relate to well established brands owned by the Company which were previously
        amortized over 40 years. Intangible assets determined to have a finite life,
        primarily distribution agreements, continue to be amortized over their estimated
        useful lives which were not modified as a result of adopting SFAS No. 142.
        The
        supplemental data section above presents operating income, income before
        extraordinary item, net income and earnings per share information for the
        comparative periods as if the nonamortization provisions of SFAS No. 142
        had
        been applied as of March 1, 2001.


Item
        7.

Management’s
        Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
        Operations

Overview

The
        Company is a leading international producer and marketer of beverage alcohol
        brands with a broad portfolio across the wine, imported beer and spirits
        categories. The Company has the largest wine business in the world and is
        the
        largest multi-category supplier of beverage alcohol in the United States
        (“U.S.”); a leading producer and exporter of wine from Australia and New
        Zealand; and both a major producer and independent drinks wholesaler in the
        United Kingdom (“U.K.”).

The
        Company reports its operating results in three segments: Constellation Wines
        (branded wines, and U.K. wholesale and other), Constellation Beers and Spirits
        (imported beers and distilled spirits) and Corporate Operations and Other.
        Amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment consist of
        general corporate administration and finance expenses. These amounts include
        costs of executive management, corporate development, corporate finance,
        human
        resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations,

global
        information technology and global strategic sourcing

.
        Any
        costs incurred at the corporate office that are applicable to the segments
        are
        allocated to the appropriate segment. The amounts included in the Corporate
        Operations and Other segment are general costs that are applicable to the
        consolidated group and are therefore not allocated to the other reportable
        segments. All costs reported within the Corporate Operations and Other segment
        are not included in the chief operating decision maker’s evaluation of the
        operating income performance of the other operating segments. The business
        segments reflect how the Company’s operations are being managed, how operating
        performance within the Company is being evaluated by senior management and
        the
        structure of its internal financial reporting. In addition, the Company excludes
        acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related charges
        and
        unusual items that affect comparability from its definition of operating
        income
        for segment purposes.

The
        Company’s business strategy is to remain focused across the beverage alcohol
        industry by offering a broad range of products in each of the Company’s three
        major categories: wine, imported beer and spirits. The Company intends to
        keep
        its portfolio positioned for superior top-line growth while maximizing the
        profitability of its brands. In addition, the Company seeks to increase its
        relative importance to key customers in major markets by increasing its share
        of
        their overall purchasing, which is increasingly important in a consolidating
        industry. The Company’s strategy of breadth across categories and geographies is
        designed to deliver long-term profitable growth. This strategy allows the
        Company more investment choices, provides flexibility to address changing
        market
        conditions and creates stronger routes-to-market.

Marketing,
        sales and distribution of the Company’s products, particularly the Constellation
        Wines segment’s products, are managed on a geographic basis in order to fully
        leverage leading market positions within each geographic market. Market dynamics
        and consumer trends vary significantly across the Company’s three core
        geographic markets - North America (primarily the U.S.), Europe (primarily
        the
        U.K.) and Australasia (primarily Australia and New Zealand). Within the U.S.
        market, the Company offers a wide range of beverage alcohol products across
        the
        Constellation Wines segment and the Constellation Beers and Spirits segment.
        In
        Europe, the Company leverages its position as the largest wine supplier in
        the
        U.K. In addition, the Company leverages its U.K. wholesale business as a
        strategic route-to-market for its imported wine portfolio and as a key supplier
        of a full range of beverage alcohol products primarily to large national
        on-premise accounts. Within Australasia, where consumer trends favor domestic
        wine products, the Company leverages its position as one of the largest wine
        producers in Australia.


The
        Company remains committed to its long-term financial model of growing sales
        (both through acquisitions and organically), expanding margins and increasing
        cash flow to achieve superior earnings per share growth and improve return
        on
        invested capital.

The
        environment for the Company’s products is competitive in each of the Company’s
        key geographic markets, due, in part, to industry and retail consolidation.
        Specifically, in the U.K. and Australia, the market for branded wine continues
        to be challenging; furthermore, retailer consolidation is contributing to
        increased competition and promotional activities among suppliers. Competition
        in
        the U.S. beers and spirits markets is normally intense, with domestic and
        imported beer producers increasing brand spending in an effort to gain market
        share.

Additionally,
        the supply of certain raw materials, particularly grapes, as well as consumer
        demand, can affect the overall competitive environment. Two years of lighter
        than expected California grape harvests in calendar 2004 and 2003, combined
        with
        a reduction in wine grape acreage in California, brought the U.S. grape supply
        more into balance with demand during calendar 2005. This led to an overall
        firming of the pricing of wine grape varietals from California. The calendar
        2005 California grape harvest was substantially larger than the prior year;
        however, following two years of lighter harvests, the Company does not currently
        expect the balance between supply and demand to change significantly. Two
        years
        of record Australian grape harvests have contributed to an oversupply of
        Australian grapes, particularly for certain red varietals. This has led to
        an
        overall reduction in grape costs for these varietals, which may affect markets
        for Australian wines around the world.

For
        the
        year ended February 28, 2006 (“Fiscal 2006”), the Company’s results of
        operations benefited from the inclusion of an additional ten months of
        operations of Robert Mondavi (as defined below). The Company’s net sales
        increased 13% over the year ended February 28, 2005 (“Fiscal 2005”), primarily
        from increases in branded wine net sales and imported beer net sales. Operating
        income increased 17% over the comparable prior year period primarily due
        to the
        favorable sales mix shift to higher margin wine brands acquired in the Robert
        Mondavi acquisition partially offset by increased acquisition-related
        integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual costs (see
        below under “Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 - Operating Income”
discussion). Net income increased 18% over the comparable prior year period
        as a
        result of the above factors combined with a lower effective income tax rate
        partially offset by increased interest expense.

The
        following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting
        (i) consolidated results of operations of the Company for Fiscal 2006 compared
        to Fiscal 2005, and Fiscal 2005 compared to the year ended February 29, 2004
        (“Fiscal 2004”), and (ii) financial liquidity and capital resources for Fiscal
        2006. This discussion and analysis also identifies certain acquisition-related
        integration costs, restructuring and related charges and net unusual costs
        expected to affect consolidated results of operations of the Company for
        the
        year ending February 28, 2007 (“Fiscal 2007”). This discussion and analysis
        should be read in conjunction with the Company’s consolidated financial
        statements and notes thereto included herein.


Recent
        Developments

Pending
        Acquisition of Vincor

On
        April
        2, 2006, the Company entered into an arrangement agreement (the “Arrangement
        Agreement”) with Vincor International Inc. (“Vincor”) pursuant to which, subject
        to satisfaction of certain conditions, the Company will acquire all of
        the issued and outstanding common shares of Vincor. Vincor is the world’s eighth
        largest producer and distributor of wine and related products by revenue
        based
        in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, and is Canada’s largest producer and marketer
        of wine. Vincor is also one of the largest wine importers, marketers and
        distributors in the U.K. In connection with the production of its products,
        Vincor owns, operates and has interests in certain wineries and controls
        certain
        vineyards. Vincor produces, markets and sells premium, super-premium and
        fine
        wines from Canada, California, Washington State, Western Australia and New
        Zealand. Some of Vincor’s well-known premium brands include Inniskillin,
        Jackson-Triggs, Sumac Ridge, Hawthorne Mountain, R.H. Phillips, Toasted Head,
        Hogue, Kim Crawford and Kumala.

The
        pending acquisition of Vincor supports the Company’s strategy of strengthening
        the breadth of its portfolio across price segments and geographic markets
        to
        capitalize on the overall growth in the wine industry. In addition to
        complementing the Company’s current operations in the U.S., U.K., Australia and
        New Zealand, the acquisition of Vincor would increase the Company’s global
        presence by adding Canada as another core geographic market. In addition,
        the
        acquisition of Vincor would make the Company the largest wine company in
        Canada
        and would strengthen the Company’s position as the largest wine company in the
        world and the largest premium wine company in the U.S.

The
        Arrangement Agreement provides for Vincor shareholders to receive in cash
        Cdn$36.50 per common share. Total consideration to be paid in cash to the
        Vincor
        shareholders is expected to be approximately Cdn$1.2 billion. In addition,
        the
        Company expects to pay certain obligations of Vincor, including indebtedness
        outstanding under its bank facility and secured notes. In April 2006, the
        Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract in connection with
        the pending acquisition of Vincor to fix the U.S. dollar cost of the
        acquisition and the payment of certain outstanding indebtedness. The foreign
        currency forward contract is for the purchase of Cdn$1.4 billion at a rate
        of
        Cdn$1.149 to U.S.$1.00. The Company will be required to mark the foreign
        currency forward contract to market with resulting gains or losses to be
        recorded in future results of operations. The consideration to be paid to
        the
        shareholders and the amount needed to repay outstanding indebtedness of
        Vincor is expected to be financed with borrowings under an amended and restated
        senior credit facility. The Company currently expects to complete the
        acquisition of Vincor in early June 2006.

If
        the
        pending acquisition is completed, the results of operations of the Vincor
        business would be reported in the Constellation Wines segment and would be
        included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company from the
        date
        of acquisition. The acquisition of Vincor would be considered significant
        and
        the Company would expect it to have a material impact on the Company’s future
        results of operations, financial position and cash flows.


Acquisitions
        in Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004 and Equity Method
        Investment

Acquisition
        of Robert Mondavi

On
        December 22, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock
        of
        The Robert Mondavi Corporation (“Robert Mondavi”), a leading premium wine
        producer based in Napa, California. Through this transaction, the Company
        acquired various additional winery and vineyard interests, and, additionally
        produces, markets and sells premium, super-premium and fine California wines

under
        the
        Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi, Robert Mondavi Private Selection and Robert
        Mondavi Winery brand names. In the United States, Woodbridge is the leading
        domestic premium wine brand and Robert Mondavi Private Selection is the leading
        super-premium wine brand.

As
        a
        result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company acquired an ownership
        interest in Opus One, a joint venture owned equally by Robert Mondavi and
        Baron
        Philippe de Rothschild, S.A. During September 2005, the Company’s president and
        Baroness Philippine de Rothschild announced an agreement to maintain equal
        ownership of Opus One. Opus One produces fine wines at its Napa Valley
        winery.

The
        acquisition of Robert Mondavi supports the Company’s strategy of strengthening
        the breadth of its portfolio across price segments to capitalize on the overall
        growth in the premium, super-premium and fine wine categories. The Company
        believes that the acquired Robert Mondavi brand names have strong brand
        recognition globally. The vast majority of sales from these brands are generated
        in the United States. The Company is leveraging the Robert Mondavi brands
        in the
        United States through its selling, marketing and distribution infrastructure.
        The Company also intends to further expand distribution for the Robert Mondavi
        brands in Europe through its Constellation Europe infrastructure. Distribution
        of the Robert Mondavi Woodbridge brand in the U.K. market is underway and
        the
        brand has been introduced into most major U.K. retailers.

The
        Robert Mondavi acquisition supports the Company’s strategy of growth and breadth
        across categories and geographies, and strengthens its competitive position
        in
        certain of its core markets.

The
        Robert Mondavi acquisition provides the Company with a greater presence in
        the
        growing premium, super-premium and fine wine sectors within the United States
        and the ability to capitalize on the broader geographic distribution in
        strategic international markets.

In
        particular, the Company believes there are growth opportunities for premium,
        super-premium and fine wines in the United Kingdom and other “new world” wine
        markets.

Total
        consideration paid in cash to the Robert Mondavi shareholders was $1,030.7
        million. Additionally, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $12.0
        million. The purchase price was financed with borrowings under the Company’s
        2004 Credit Agreement (as defined below). In accordance with the purchase
        method
        of accounting, the acquired net assets are recorded at fair value at the
        date of
        acquisition. The purchase price was based primarily on the estimated future
        operating results of the Robert Mondavi business, including the factors
        described above, as well as an estimated benefit from operating cost
        synergies

.

The
        results of operations of the Robert Mondavi business have been reported in
        the
        Company’s Constellation Wines segment since December 22, 2004. Accordingly, the
        Company’s results of operations for Fiscal 2006 include the results of
        operations of the Robert Mondavi business for the entire period, whereas
        the
        results of operations for Fiscal 2005 only include the results of operations
        of
        the Robert Mondavi business from December 22, 2004, to the end of Fiscal
        2005.

Following
        the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company sold certain of the acquired
        vineyard properties and related assets, investments accounted for under the
        equity method, and winery properties and related assets. The
        Company realized net proceeds of $170.8 million from the sale of certain of
        these assets during Fiscal 2006. Sales of these assets are complete, and,
        since
        the date of acquisition through February 28, 2006, net proceeds from these
        asset
        sales total $180.7 million. No gain or loss has been recognized upon the
        sale of
        these assets.


Acquisition
        of Hardy

On
        March
        27, 2003, the Company acquired control of BRL Hardy Limited, now known as
        Hardy
        Wine Company Limited (“Hardy”), and on April 9, 2003, the Company completed its
        acquisition of all of Hardy’s outstanding capital stock. As a result of the
        acquisition of Hardy, the Company also acquired the remaining 50% ownership
        of
        Pacific Wine Partners LLC (“PWP”), the joint venture the Company established
        with Hardy in July 2001. The acquisition of Hardy along with the remaining
        interest in PWP is referred to together as the “Hardy Acquisition.” Through this
        acquisition, the Company acquired one of Australia’s largest wine producers with
        interests in wineries and vineyards in most of Australia’s major wine regions as
        well as New Zealand and the United States. Hardy has a comprehensive portfolio
        of wine products across all price points with a strong focus on premium wine
        production. Hardy’s wines are distributed worldwide through a network of
        marketing and sales operations, with the majority of sales generated in
        Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States. In October 2005, PWP
        was
        merged into another subsidiary of the Company.

Total
        consideration paid in cash and Class A Common Stock to the Hardy shareholders
        was $1,137.4 million. Additionally, the Company recorded direct acquisition
        costs of $17.2 million. The acquisition date for accounting purposes is March
        27, 2003. The Company has recorded a $1.6 million reduction in the purchase
        price to reflect imputed interest between the accounting acquisition date
        and
        the final payment of consideration. This charge is included as interest expense
        in the Consolidated Statement of Income for Fiscal 2004. The cash portion
        of the
        purchase price paid to the Hardy shareholders and optionholders ($1,060.2
        million) was financed with $660.2 million of borrowings under the Company’s then
        existing credit agreement and $400.0 million of borrowings under the Company’s
        then existing bridge loan agreement. Additionally, the Company issued 6,577,826
        shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, which were valued at $77.2 million
        based on the simple average of the closing market price of the Company’s Class A
        Common Stock beginning two days before and ending two days after April 4,
        2003,
        the day the Hardy shareholders elected the form of consideration they wished
        to
        receive. The purchase price was based primarily on a discounted cash flow
        analysis that contemplated, among other things, the value of a broader
        geographic distribution in strategic international markets and a presence
        in the
        important Australian winemaking regions. The Company and Hardy have
        complementary businesses that share a common growth orientation and operating
        philosophy. The Hardy Acquisition supports the Company’s strategy of growth and
        breadth across categories and geographies, and strengthens its competitive
        position in its core markets. The purchase price and resulting goodwill were
        primarily based on the growth opportunities of the brand portfolio of Hardy.
        In
        particular, the Company believes there are growth opportunities for Australian
        wines in the United Kingdom, United States and other wine markets. This
        acquisition supports the Company’s strategy of driving long-term growth and
        positions the Company to capitalize on the growth opportunities in “new world”
wine markets.

The
        results of operations of Hardy and PWP have been reported in the Company’s
        Constellation Wines segment since March 27, 2003. Accordingly, the Company’s
        results of operations for Fiscal 2005 include the results of operations of
        Hardy
        and PWP for the entire period, whereas the results of operations for Fiscal
        only include the results of operations of Hardy and PWP from March 27, 2003,
        to
        the end of Fiscal 2004.


Investment
        in Ruffino

On
        December 3, 2004, the Company purchased a 40% interest in Ruffino S.r.l.
        (“Ruffino”), the well-known Italian fine wine company, for $89.6 million,
        including direct acquisition costs of $7.5 million. As of February 1, 2005,
        the
        Constellation Wines segment began distributing Ruffino’s products in the United
        States. The Company accounts for the investment under the equity method;
        accordingly, the results of operations of Ruffino from December 3, 2004,
        are
        included in the equity in earnings of equity method investees line in the
        Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.

Results
        of Operations

Fiscal
        2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005

Net
        Sales

The
        following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating
        segment of the Company for Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005.

Net
        sales
        for Fiscal 2006 increased to $4,603.4 million from $4,087.6 million for Fiscal
        2005, an increase of $515.8 million, or 13%. This increase resulted primarily
        from an increase in branded wine net sales of $440.1 million (on a constant
        currency basis) and imported beer net sales of $120.5 million, partially
        offset
        by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of $35.5 million.

Constellation
        Wines

Net
        sales
        for Constellation Wines increased to $3,235.4 million for Fiscal 2006 from
        $2,851.4 million in Fiscal 2005, an increase of $384.0 million, or 13%. Branded
        wine net sales increased $432.6 million primarily from $337.5 million of
        net
        sales of the acquired Robert Mondavi brands and $43.6 million of net sales
        of
        Ruffino brands, which the Company began distributing in the U.S. on February
        1,
        2005, as well as a $51.5 million increase in branded wine net sales (excluding
        sales of Robert Mondavi and Ruffino brands). The $51.5 million increase is
        due
        primarily to volume growth in the Company’s branded wine net sales in the U.S.
        as well as new product introductions. Wholesale and other net sales decreased
        $48.5 million ($20.5 million on a constant currency basis) as growth in the
        U.K.
        wholesale business was more than offset by a decrease in other net sales.
        The
        decrease in other net sales is primarily due to the Company’s Fiscal 2004
        decision to exit the commodity concentrate business during Fiscal
        2005.


Constellation
        Beers and Spirits

Net
        sales
        for Constellation Beers and Spirits increased to $1,368.0 million for Fiscal
        2006 from $1,236.2 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $131.8 million,
        or
        11%. This increase resulted from increases in imported beers net sales of
        $120.5
        million and spirits net sales of $11.3 million. The growth in imported beers
        net
        sales is primarily due to volume growth in the Company’s Mexican beer portfolio.
        The growth in spirits net sales is attributable primarily to an increase
        in the
        Company’s contract production net sales.

Gross
        Profit

The
        Company’s gross profit increased to $1,324.6 million for Fiscal 2006 from
        $1,140.6 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $184.0 million, or 16%.
        The
        Constellation Wines segment’s gross profit increased $191.0 million primarily
        due to the additional gross profit of $171.7 million from the Robert Mondavi
        acquisition and additional gross profit from the volume growth in branded
        wine
        net sales in the U.S., partially offset by the reduced gross profit from
        the
        decrease in other net sales. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segment’s gross
        profit increased $21.0 million primarily due to volume growth in the Company’s
        Mexican beer portfolio partially offset by higher Mexican beer product costs
        and
        transportation costs. However, in connection with certain supply arrangements,
        the higher Mexican beer product costs were offset by a corresponding decrease
        in
        advertising expenses resulting in no impact to operating income. In addition,
        unusual items, which consist of certain costs that are excluded by management
        in
        their evaluation of the results of each operating segment, were higher by
        $28.1
        million in Fiscal 2006 versus Fiscal 2005. This increase resulted primarily
        from
        accelerated depreciation costs associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan (as defined
        below) of $13.4 million and increased flow through of adverse grape cost
        associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $13.2 million. Gross profit
        as
        a percent of net sales increased to 28.8% for Fiscal 2006 from 27.9% for
        Fiscal
        2005 primarily due to sales of higher-margin wine brands acquired in the
        Robert
        Mondavi acquisition, partially offset by the higher unusual items and higher
        Mexican beer product costs and transportation costs.

The
        Company expects transportation costs to continue to impact the Company’s gross
        margins. However, the Company is addressing this matter by continuing its
        evaluation and implementation of price increases on a market by market
        basis.


Selling,
        General and Administrative Expenses

Selling,
        general and administrative expenses increased to $612.4 million for Fiscal
        from $555.7 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $56.7 million, or 10%.
        The
        Constellation Wines segment’s selling, general and administrative expenses
        increased $67.2 million primarily due to increased selling expenses, general
        and
        administrative, and advertising expenses to support the growth in the segment’s
        business, primarily due to the costs related to the brands acquired in the
        Robert Mondavi acquisition. In addition, general and administrative expenses
        were negatively impacted as a result of an adjustment associated with the
        segment’s U.K. defined benefit pension plan related to a reduction in the period
        over which unrecognized actuarial losses are amortized. The Constellation
        Beers
        and Spirits segment’s selling, general and administrative expenses increased
        $4.6 million as increased selling and general and administrative expenses
        were
        partially offset by lower advertising expenses. The Corporate Operations
        and
        Other segment’s selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7.0
        million primarily due to costs associated with professional service fees
        incurred in connection with the Company’s tender offer for Vincor that expired
        in December 2005 and increased general and administrative expenses to support
        the Company’s growth. Lastly, there was a decrease of $22.1 million of unusual
        costs which consist of certain items that are excluded by management in their
        evaluation of the results of each operating segment. Fiscal 2006 included
        costs
        associated primarily with professional service fees incurred for due diligence
        in connection with the Company’s evaluation of a potential offer for Allied
        Domecq of $3.4 million. Fiscal 2005 costs included $31.7 million of financing
        costs recorded in Fiscal 2005 related to (i) the Company’s redemption of its
        $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes
        due March 2009 (the “Senior Subordinated Notes”) and (ii) the Company’s new
        senior credit facility entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi
        acquisition, partially offset by net gains of $6.1 million recorded in Fiscal
        2005 on the sales of non-strategic assets and the receipt of a payment
        associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine
        wine
        joint venture. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent
        of net
        sales decreased to 13.3% for Fiscal 2006 as compared to 13.6% for Fiscal
        primarily due to the decrease in unusual costs.

Acquisition-Related
        Integration Costs

The
        Company recorded $16.8 million of acquisition-related integration costs for
        Fiscal 2006 in connection with the Company’s decision to restructure and
        integrate the operations of Robert Mondavi (the “Robert Mondavi Plan”).
        Acquisition-related integration costs included $5.3 million of employee-related
        costs and $11.5 million of facilities and other one-time costs. The Company
        recorded $9.4 million of acquisition-related integration costs for Fiscal
        in connection with the Robert Mondavi Plan. The Company does not expect
        acquisition-related integration costs in connection with the Robert Mondavi
        Plan
        to be significant for Fiscal 2007.


Restructuring
        and Related Charges

The
        Company recorded $29.3 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal
        2006 associated with the restructuring plans of the Constellation Wines segment.
        Restructuring and related charges resulted from (i) the further realignment
        of
        business operations as previously announced in Fiscal 2004, a component of
        the
        Fiscal 2004 Plan (as defined below under the caption “Fiscal 2005 Compared to
        Fiscal 2004 - Restructuring and Related Charges”), (ii) the Robert Mondavi Plan,
        and (iii) costs associated with the worldwide wine reorganization announced
        in
        February 2006 (including certain personnel reductions in the U.K. during
        the
        third quarter of fiscal 2006) and the Company’s program to consolidate certain
        west coast production processes in the U.S. (collectively, the “Fiscal 2006
        Plan”). Restructuring and related charges recorded in connection with the Fiscal
        2004 Plan included $0.7 million of employee termination benefit costs and
        $1.3
        million of facility consolidation and relocation costs. Restructuring and
        related charges recorded in connection with the Robert Mondavi Plan included
        $1.6 million of employee termination benefit costs, $0.7 million of contract
        termination costs and $0.5 million of facility consolidation and relocation
        costs. Restructuring and related charges recorded in connection with the
        Fiscal
        2006 Plan included $24.3 million of employee termination benefit costs and
        $0.2
        million of facility consolidation and relocation costs. In addition, in
        connection with the Fiscal 2006 Plan, the Company recorded (i) $13.4 million
        of
        accelerated depreciation charges in connection with the Company’s investment in
        new assets and reconfiguration of certain existing assets under the plan
        and
        (ii) $0.1 million of other related costs which were recorded in the cost
        of
        product sold line and the selling, general and administrative expenses line,
        respectively, within the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company recorded
        $7.6 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2005 associated
        with the Fiscal 2004 Plan and the Robert Mondavi Plan.

For
        Fiscal 2007, the Company expects to incur total restructuring and related
        charges of $24.8 million associated primarily with the Fiscal 2006 Plan and
        the
        Robert Mondavi Plan. In addition, the Company expects to incur total accelerated
        depreciation charges of $7.0 million associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan.
        Lastly, the Company expects to incur total other related costs of $8.3 million
        associated with the Fiscal 2006 Plan.

Operating
        Income

The
        following table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in millions of dollars)
        by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal
        2005.


As
        a
        result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased
        to $666.1 million for Fiscal 2006 from $567.9 million for Fiscal 2005, an
        increase of $98.2 million, or 17%. Acquisition-related integration costs,
        restructuring and related charges and unusual costs of $93.9 million for
        Fiscal
        2006 consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their
        evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs represent
        restructuring and related charges of $29.3 million associated primarily with
        the
        Fiscal 2006 Plan and the Robert Mondavi Plan; the flow through of adverse
        grape
        cost and acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Robert
        Mondavi acquisition of $23.0 million and $16.8 million, respectively;
        accelerated depreciation costs of $13.4 million associated with the Fiscal
        Plan; the flow through of inventory step-up associated with the Robert Mondavi
        acquisition of $7.9 million; costs associated with professional service fees
        incurred for due diligence in connection with the Company’s evaluation of a
        potential offer for Allied Domecq of $3.4 million; and other costs associated
        with the Fiscal 2006 Plan of $0.1 million. Acquisition-related integration
        costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual costs of $58.8 million
        for
        Fiscal 2005 represent financing costs associated with the redemption of the
        Company’s Senior Subordinated Notes and the Company’s new senior credit facility
        entered into in connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $31.7 million;
        adverse grape cost and acquisition-related integration costs associated with
        the
        Company’s acquisition of Robert Mondavi of $9.8 million and $9.4 million,
        respectively; restructuring and related charges of $7.6 million in the wine
        segment associated with the Company’s realignment of its business operations and
        the Robert Mondavi acquisition; and the flow through of inventory step-up
        associated with the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions of $6.4 million;
        partially offset by a net gain on the sale of non-strategic assets of $3.1
        million and a gain related to the receipt of a payment associated with the
        termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint venture of
        $3.0
        million.

Equity
        in Earnings of Equity Method Investees

The
        Company’s equity in earnings of equity method investees decreased to $0.8
        million in Fiscal 2006 from $1.8 million in Fiscal 2005, a decrease of $0.9
        million due primarily to a $5.0 million loss from the Company’s investment in
        Ruffino, partially offset by an increase in earnings of $4.1 million associated
        primarily with the Company’s investment in Opus One as a result of the Robert
        Mondavi acquisition. The $5.0 million loss from the Company’s investment in
        Ruffino is due primarily to the write-down of certain pre-acquisition Ruffino
        inventories.

Interest
        Expense, Net

Interest
        expense, net of interest income of $4.2 million and $2.3 million for Fiscal
        and Fiscal 2005, respectively, increased to $189.7 million for Fiscal 2006
        from
        $137.7 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of $52.0 million, or 38%. The
        increase resulted primarily from higher average borrowings in Fiscal 2006
        primarily due to the Robert Mondavi acquisition and the investment in Ruffino
        in
        the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.

Provision
        for Income Taxes

The
        Company’s effective tax rate was 31.8% for Fiscal 2006 and 36.0% for Fiscal
        2005, a decrease of 4.2%. This decrease was primarily due to a non-cash
        reduction in the Company’s provision for income taxes of $16.2 million, or 3.4%,
        as a result of adjustments to income tax accruals in connection with the
        completion of various income tax examinations plus the income tax benefit
        the
        Company recorded under the repatriation provisions of the “American Jobs
        Creation Act of 2004” in connection with distributions of certain foreign
        earnings. The Company expects the effective tax rate for Fiscal 2007 to be 
approximately 36.5%, which is slightly higher than historical
        levels, as an increasing percentage of the Company’s earnings are coming
        from higher tax jurisdictions.


Net
        Income

As
        a
        result of the above factors, net income increased to $

325.3

million
        for Fiscal 2006 from $276.5 million for Fiscal 2005, an increase of
        $

48.8

million,
        or 18%.

Fiscal
        2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004

Net
        Sales

The
        following table sets forth the net sales (in millions of dollars) by operating
        segment of the Company for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal 2004.

Net
        sales
        for Fiscal 2005 increased to $4,087.6 million from $3,552.4 million for Fiscal
        2004, an increase of $535.2 million, or 15%. This increase resulted primarily
        from an increase in branded wine net sales of $217.8 million (on a constant
        currency basis), including $84.2 million of net sales of the acquired Robert
        Mondavi brands and $45.7 million of net sales of the acquired Hardy brands;
        an
        increase in U.K. wholesale net sales of $84.1 million (on a constant currency
        basis); and an increase in imported beer net sales of $60.3 million. In
        addition, net sales benefited from a favorable foreign currency impact of
        $155.5
        million.

Constellation
        Wines

Net
        sales
        for Constellation Wines increased to $2,851.4 million for Fiscal 2005 from
        $2,396.0 million in Fiscal 2004, an increase of $455.4 million, or 19%. Branded
        wine net sales increased $281.1 million. This increase resulted from increased
        branded wine net sales in the U.S., Europe and Australasia of $217.8 million
        (on
        a constant currency basis), including $84.2 million of net sales of the acquired
        Robert Mondavi brands and an additional one month of net sales of $45.7 million
        of the acquired Hardy brands, completed in March 2003, and a favorable foreign
        currency impact of $63.3 million. The increases in branded wine net sales
        in the
        U.S., Europe and Australasia are primarily due to volume growth as the Company
        continues to benefit from increased distribution and greater consumer demand
        for
        premium wines. Wholesale and other net sales increased $174.3 million primarily
        due to growth in the U.K. wholesale business of $84.1 million (on a constant
        currency basis) and a favorable foreign currency impact of $92.2 million.
        The
        net sales increase in the U.K. wholesale business on a constant currency
        basis
        is primarily due to the addition of new national accounts in the first quarter
        of fiscal 2005 and increased sales in existing accounts during Fiscal
        2005.


Constellation
        Beers and Spirits

Net
        sales
        for Constellation Beers and Spirits increased to $1,236.2 million for Fiscal
        2005 from $1,147.2 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $89.0 million,
        or 8%.
        This increase resulted from a $60.3 million increase in imported beer net
        sales
        and an increase in spirits net sales of $28.7 million. The growth in imported
        beer sales is primarily due to a price increase on the Company’s Mexican beer
        portfolio, which was introduced in January 2004. The growth in spirits net
        sales
        is attributable to increases in both the Company’s contract production net sales
        as well as volume growth in branded net sales.

Gross
        Profit

The
        Company’s gross profit increased to $1,140.6 million for Fiscal 2005 from $975.8
        million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $164.8 million, or 17%. The
        Constellation Wines segment’s gross profit increased $122.6 million primarily
        due to the additional two months of sales of products acquired in the Robert
        Mondavi acquisition, volume growth in the U.S. branded wine net sales and
        a
        favorable foreign currency impact. The Constellation Beers and Spirits segment’s
        gross profit increased $30.6 million primarily due to the increase in imported
        beer net sales and volume growth in the segment’s spirits portfolio. In
        addition, unusual items, which consist of certain costs that are excluded
        by
        management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment,
        were
        lower by $11.6 million in Fiscal 2005 versus Fiscal 2004. This decrease resulted
        from a $16.8 million write-down of commodity concentrate inventory in Fiscal
        2004 in connection with the Company’s decision to exit the commodity concentrate
        product line in the U.S. (see additional discussion under “Restructuring and
        Related Charges” below) and reduced flow through of inventory step-up associated
        with the Hardy and Robert Mondavi acquisitions of $16.0 million, partially
        offset by the relief from certain excise tax, duty and other costs incurred
        in
        prior years of $11.5 million, which was recognized in the fourth quarter
        of
        fiscal 2004, and the flow through of adverse grape cost associated with the
        Robert Mondavi acquisition of $9.8 million in Fiscal 2005. Gross profit as
        a
        percent of net sales increased to 27.9% for Fiscal 2005 from 27.5% for Fiscal
        2004 primarily due to the lower unusual items.


Selling,
        General and Administrative Expenses

Selling,
        general and administrative expenses increased to $555.7 million for Fiscal
        from $457.3 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of $98.4 million, or 22%.
        The
        Constellation Wines segment’s selling, general and administrative expenses
        increased $64.7 million primarily due to increased selling and advertising
        expenses as the Company continues to invest behind specific wine brands to
        drive
        broader distribution and additional selling, general and administrative expenses
        from the addition of the Robert Mondavi business. The Constellation Beers
        and
        Spirits segment’s selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7.1
        million primarily due to increased imported beer and spirits selling expenses
        to
        support the growth across this segment’s businesses. The Corporate Operations
        and Other segment’s selling, general and administrative expenses increased $13.7
        million primarily due to increased general and administrative expenses to
        support the Company’s growth and costs associated with higher professional
        services fees, including costs incurred in connection with compliance activities
        associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Lastly, there was an increase
        of
        $12.9 million of unusual costs which consist of certain items that are excluded
        by management in their evaluation of the results of each operating segment.
        This
        increase includes $31.7 million of financing costs recorded in Fiscal 2005
        related to (i) the Company’s redemption of its Senior Subordinated Notes and
        (ii) the Company’s new senior credit facility entered into in connection with
        the Robert Mondavi acquisition as compared to $11.6 million of financing
        costs
        recorded in Fiscal 2004 in connection with the Hardy Acquisition. Partially
        offsetting the $20.1 million increase in financing costs were net gains recorded
        in Fiscal 2005 on the sales of non-strategic assets and the receipt of a
        payment
        associated with the termination of a previously announced potential fine
        wine
        joint venture. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent
        of net
        sales increased to 13.6% for Fiscal 2005 as compared to 12.9% for Fiscal
        primarily due to the growth in the Corporate Operations and Other segment’s
        general and administrative expenses and the increased unusual costs described
        above.

Acquisition-Related
        Integration Costs

The
        Company recorded $9.4 million of acquisition-related integration costs for
        Fiscal 2005 associated with the Robert Mondavi Plan. Acquisition-related
        integration costs included $4.9 million of employee related costs and $4.5
        million of facilities and other one-time costs.

Restructuring
        and Related Charges

The
        Company recorded $7.6 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal
        2005 associated with the restructuring plans of the Constellation Wines segment.
        Restructuring and related charges resulted from (i) the further realignment
        of
        business operations as previously announced in Fiscal 2004, (ii) the Company's
        decision in Fiscal 2004 to exit the commodity concentrate product line in
        the
        U.S. (collectively, the “Fiscal 2004 Plan”), and (iii) the Robert Mondavi Plan.
        Restructuring and related charges included $3.8 million of employee termination
        benefit costs (net of reversal of prior accruals of $0.2 million), $1.5 million
        of contract termination costs, $1.0 million of facility consolidation and
        relocation costs, and other related charges of $1.3 million. The Company
        recorded $31.1 million of restructuring and related charges for Fiscal 2004
        associated with the Fiscal 2004 Plan. In total, the Company recorded $47.9
        million of costs for Fiscal 2004 allocated between cost of product sold and
        restructuring and related charges associated with the Fiscal 2004
        Plan.


Operating
        Income

The
        following table sets forth the operating income (loss) (in millions of dollars)
        by operating segment of the Company for Fiscal 2005 and Fiscal
        2004.

As
        a
        result of the factors discussed above, consolidated operating income increased
        to $567.9 million for Fiscal 2005 from $487.4 million for Fiscal 2004, an
        increase of $80.5 million, or 17%. Acquisition-related integration costs,
        restructuring and related charges and net unusual costs of $58.8 million
        for
        Fiscal 2005 consist of certain costs that are excluded by management in their
        evaluation of the results of each operating segment. These costs represent
        financing costs associated with the redemption of the Company’s Senior
        Subordinated Notes and the Company’s new senior credit facility entered into in
        connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $31.7 million, adverse
        grape
        cost and acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Company’s
        acquisition of Robert Mondavi of $9.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively,
        restructuring and related charges of $7.6 million in the wine segment associated
        with the Company’s realignment of its business operations and the Robert Mondavi
        acquisition, and the flow through of inventory step-up associated with the
        Hardy
        and Robert Mondavi acquisitions of $6.4 million, partially offset by a net
        gain
        on the sale of non-strategic assets of $3.1 million and a gain related to
        the
        receipt of a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced
        potential fine wine joint venture of $3.0 million. Acquisition-related
        integration costs, restructuring and related charges and net unusual costs
        of
        $71.6 million for Fiscal 2004 represent the flow through of inventory
        step

-up
        and
        the amortization of deferred financing costs associated with the Hardy
        Acquisition of $22.5 million and $11.6 million, respectively, and costs
        associated with exiting the commodity concentrate product line and the Company’s
        realignment of its business operations in the wine segment, including the
        write-down of commodity concentrate inventory of $16.8 million and restructuring
        and related charges of $31.1 million, partially offset by the relief from
        certain excise taxes, duty and other costs incurred in prior years of $10.4
        million.

Interest
        Expense, Net

Interest
        expense, net of interest income of $2.3 million and $3.6 million for Fiscal
        and Fiscal 2004, respectively, decreased to $137.7 million for Fiscal 2005
        from
        $144.7 million for Fiscal 2004, a decrease of $7.0 million, or (5%). The
        decrease resulted from lower average borrowing rates in Fiscal 2005 as well
        as
        lower average borrowings. The reduction in average borrowing rates was
        attributed in part to the replacement of $200.0 million of higher fixed rate
        subordinated note debt with lower variable rate revolver debt. The reduction
        in
        average borrowings resulted from the use of proceeds from the Company’s equity
        offerings in July 2003 to pay down debt incurred to partially finance the
        Hardy
        Acquisition combined with on-going principal payments on long-term debt,
        partially offset by additional borrowings in the fourth quarter of fiscal
        to finance the Robert Mondavi acquisition.


Provision
        for Income Taxes

The
        Company’s effective tax rate remained the same at 36.0% for Fiscal 2005 and
        Fiscal 2004.

Net
        Income

As
        a
        result of the above factors, net income increased to $

276.5

million
        for Fiscal 2005 from $220.4 million for Fiscal 2004, an increase of
        $

56.1

million,
        or 25.4%.

Financial
        Liquidity and Capital Resources

General

The
        Company’s principal use of cash in its operating activities is for purchasing
        and carrying inventories and carrying seasonal accounts receivable. The
        Company’s primary source of liquidity has historically been cash flow from
        operations, except during annual grape harvests when the Company has relied
        on
        short-term borrowings. In the United States, the annual grape crush normally
        begins in August and runs through October. In Australia, the annual grape
        crush
        normally begins in February and runs through May. The Company generally begins
        taking delivery of grapes at the beginning of the crush season with payments
        for
        such grapes beginning to come due one month later. The Company’s short-term
        borrowings to support such purchases generally reach their highest levels
        one to
        two months after the crush season has ended. Historically, the Company has
        used
        cash flow from operating activities to repay its short-term borrowings and
        fund
        capital expenditures. The Company will continue to use its short-term borrowings
        to support its working capital requirements. The Company believes that cash
        provided by operating activities and its financing activities, primarily
        short-term borrowings, will provide adequate resources to satisfy its working
        capital, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, preferred stock
        dividend payment requirements, and anticipated capital expenditure requirements
        for both its short-term and long-term capital needs. In addition, the Company
        intends to utilize cash provided by operating activities and financing
        activities to repurchase shares under the Company’s share repurchase program
        (see below) beginning in Fiscal 2007.

Fiscal
        2006 Cash Flows

Operating
        Activities

Net
        cash
        provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2006 was $436.0 million, which
        resulted from $325.3 million of net income, plus $167.2 million of net non-cash
        items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Income and $48.8 million
        of cash
        proceeds credited to accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) within the
        Consolidated Balance Sheet, less $105.2 million representing the net change
        in
        the Company’s operating assets and liabilities.

The
        net
        non-cash items consisted primarily of depreciation of property, plant and
        equipment and deferred tax provision. The cash proceeds credited to AOCI
        consisted of $30.3 million in proceeds from the unwinding of certain interest
        rate swaps (see discussion below under Senior Credit Facilities) and $18.5
        million in proceeds from the early termination of certain foreign currency
        derivative instruments related to the Company’s change in its structure of
        certain of its cash flow hedges of forecasted foreign currency denominated
        transactions. As the forecasted transactions are still probable, this amount
        was
        recorded to AOCI and will be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the
        same
        periods in which the original hedged items are recorded in the Consolidated
        Statements of Income. The net change in operating assets and liabilities
        resulted primarily from an increase in inventories and decreases in accrued
        advertising and promotion and restructuring accruals, partially offset by
        a
        decrease in accounts receivable.


Investing
        Activities

Net
        cash
        used in investing activities for Fiscal 2006 was $15.6 million, which resulted
        primarily from $132.5 million of capital expenditures and net cash paid of
        $45.9
        million for purchases of businesses, partially offset by $173.5 million of
        net
        proceeds from sales of assets, equity method investment, and businesses,
        primarily attributable to sales of non-strategic Robert Mondavi
        assets.

Financing
        Activities

Net
        cash
        used in financing activities for Fiscal 2006 was $426.2 million resulting
        primarily from principal payments of long-term debt of $527.6 million partially
        offset by net proceeds of $63.8 million from notes payable and $31.5 million
        of
        proceeds from employee stock option exercises.

Fiscal
        2005 Cash Flows

Operating
        Activities

Net
        cash
        provided by operating activities for Fiscal 2005 was $320.7 million, which
        resulted from $276.5 million of net income, plus $176.0 million of net non-cash
        items charged to the Consolidated Statements of Income, less $131.7 million
        representing the net change in the Company’s operating assets and liabilities.
        The net non-cash items consisted primarily of depreciation of property, plant
        and equipment, deferred tax provision and the non-cash portion of loss on
        extinguishment of debt. The net change in operating assets and liabilities
        resulted primarily from increases in accounts receivable and inventories.
        The
        increases in accounts receivable and inventories are primarily a result of
        the Company’s growth in Fiscal 2005.

Investing
        Activities

Net
        cash
        used in investing activities for Fiscal 2005 was $1,222.9 million, which
        resulted primarily from net cash paid of $1,052.5 million for purchases of
        businesses and $119.7 million of capital expenditures.

Financing
        Activities

Net
        cash
        provided by financing activities for Fiscal 2005 was $884.2 million resulting
        primarily from proceeds from issuance of long-term debt of $2,400.0 million,
        partially offset by principal payments of long-term debt of $1,488.7
        million.

Share
        Repurchase Program

During
        June 1998, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
        $100.0 million of its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Under
        this
        program, the Company had purchased a total of 8,150,688 shares of Class A
        Common
        Stock at an aggregate cost of $44.9 million, or at an average cost of $5.51
        per
        share. Of this total amount, no shares were repurchased during Fiscal 2006,
        Fiscal 2005 or Fiscal 2004.

During
        February 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors replenished the June 1998
        authorization to repurchase up to $100.0 million of the Company’s Class A Common
        Stock and Class B Common Stock.

The
        repurchase of shares of common stock will be accomplished, from time to time,
        in
        management’s discretion and depending upon market conditions, through open
        market or privately negotiated transactions. The Company may finance such
        repurchases through cash generated from operations or through the senior
        credit
        facility. The repurchased shares will become treasury shares. As of May 1,
        2006,
        no additional shares were repurchased under the amended program.


Debt

Total
        debt outstanding as of February 28, 2006, amounted to $

2,809.7

million,
        a decrease of $

479.5

million
        from February 28, 2005. The ratio of total debt to total capitalization
        decreased to

48.6

%
        as of
        February 28, 2006, from 54.2% as of February 28, 2005,

primarily
        due to the paydown of term debt resulting primarily from net cash provided
        by
        operating activities and proceeds from sales of non-strategic assets associated
        with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, net of capital expenditures.

In
        connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor, the Company expects to
        finance the purchase price and repayment of Vincor’s outstanding indebtedness
        with borrowings under an amended and restated senior credit facility. If
        the
        acquisition of Vincor is completed in early June 2006 as currently expected,
        the
        Company’s ratio of total debt to total capitalization will be significantly
        impacted.

Senior
        Credit Facility

        Credit Agreement

In
        connection with the acquisition of Robert Mondavi, on December 22, 2004,
        the
        Company and its U.S. subsidiaries (excluding certain inactive subsidiaries),
        together with certain of its subsidiaries organized in foreign jurisdictions,
        JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a lender and administrative agent, and certain
        other agents, lenders, and financial institutions entered into a new credit
        agreement (the “2004 Credit Agreement”). The 2004 Credit Agreement provides for
        aggregate credit facilities of $2.9 billion (subject to increase as therein
        provided to $3.2 billion), consisting of a $600.0 million tranche A term
        loan
        facility due in November 2010, a $1.8 billion tranche B term loan facility
        due
        in November 2011, and a $500.0 million revolving credit facility (including
        a
        sub-facility for letters of credit of up to $60.0 million) which terminates
        in
        December 2010. Proceeds of the 2004 Credit Agreement were used to pay off
        the
        Company’s obligations under its prior senior credit facility, to fund the cash
        consideration payable in connection with its acquisition of Robert Mondavi,
        and
        to pay certain obligations of Robert Mondavi, including indebtedness outstanding
        under its bank facility and unsecured notes of $355.4 million. The Company
        uses
        its revolving credit facility under the 2004 Credit Agreement for general
        corporate purposes, including working capital, on an as needed
        basis.

The
        tranche A term loan facility and the tranche B term loan facility were fully
        drawn on December 22, 2004. As of February 28, 2006, the required principal
        repayments of the tranche A term loan and the tranche B term loan for each
        of
        the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter are as follows:

The
        rate
        of interest on borrowings under the 2004 Credit Agreement, at the Company’s
        option, is a function of LIBOR plus a margin, the federal funds rate plus
        a
        margin, or the prime rate plus a margin. The margin is adjustable based upon
        the
        Company’s debt ratio (as defined in the 2004 Credit Agreement) and, with respect
        to LIBOR borrowings, ranges between 1.00% and 1.75%. As of February 28, 2006,
        the LIBOR margin for the revolving credit facility and the tranche A term
        loan
        facility is 1.25%, while the LIBOR margin on the tranche B term loan facility
        is
        1.50%.


The
        Company’s obligations are guaranteed by its U.S. subsidiaries (excluding certain
        inactive subsidiaries) and by certain of its foreign subsidiaries. These
        obligations are also secured by a pledge of (i) 100% of the ownership interests
        in most of the Company’s U.S. subsidiaries and (ii) 65% of the voting capital
        stock of certain of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries.

The
        Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to customary lending covenants
        including those restricting additional liens, the incurrence of additional
        indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness), the sale of assets,
        the
        payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, the disposition and
        acquisition of property and the making of certain investments, in each case
        subject to numerous baskets, exceptions and thresholds. The financial covenants
        are limited to maximum total debt and senior debt coverage ratios and minimum
        fixed charges and interest coverage ratios. As of February 28, 2006, the
        Company
        is in compliance with all of its covenants under its 2004 Credit
        Agreement.

As
        of
        February 28, 2006, under the 2004 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding
        tranche A term loans of $355.0 million bearing a weighted average interest
        rate
        of 5.8%, tranche B term loans of $1,409.0 million bearing a weighted average
        interest rate of 5.9%, revolving loans of $54.5 million bearing a weighted
        average interest rate of 5.7%, undrawn revolving letters of credit of $35.1
        million, and $410.4 million in revolving loans available to be
        drawn.

In
        March
        2005, the Company replaced its then outstanding five year interest rate swap
        agreements with new five year delayed start interest rate swap agreements
        effective March 1, 2006, which are outstanding as of February 28, 2006. These
        delayed start interest rate swap agreements extended the original hedged
        period
        through fiscal 2010. The swap agreements fixed LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0
        million of the Company’s floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1%
        over the five year term. The Company received $30.3 million in proceeds from
        the
        unwinding of the original swaps. This amount will be reclassified from
        Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”) ratably into earnings in the
        same period in which the original hedged item is recorded in the Consolidated
        Statements of Income. For Fiscal 2006, the Company reclassified $3.6 million
        from AOCI to Interest Expense, net in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of
        Income. This non-cash operating activity is included in the Other, net line
        in
        the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Foreign
        Subsidiary Facilities

The
        Company has additional credit arrangements available totaling $188.9 million
        as
        of February 28, 2006. These arrangements support the financing needs of certain
        of the Company’s foreign subsidiary operations. Interest rates and other terms
        of these borrowings vary from country to country, depending on local market
        conditions. As of February 28, 2006, amounts outstanding under the subsidiary
        credit arrangements were $52.3 million.

Senior
        Notes

As
        of
        February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $200.0 million aggregate
        principal amount of 8 5/8% Senior Notes due August 2006 (the “Senior Notes”).
        The Senior Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option
        of
        the Company.

As
        of
        February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding £1.0 million ($1.8 million)
        aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B Senior Notes due November 2009
        (the “Sterling Series B Senior Notes”). In addition, as of February 28, 2006,
        the Company had outstanding £154.0 million ($270.1 million, net of $0.3 million
        unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior
        Notes
        due November 2009 (the “Sterling Series C Senior Notes”). The Sterling Series B
        Senior Notes and Sterling Series C Senior Notes are currently redeemable,
        in
        whole or in part, at the option of the Company.


Also,
        as
        of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $200.0 million aggregate
        principal amount of 8% Senior Notes due February 2008 (the “February 2001 Senior
        Notes”). The February 2001 Senior Notes are currently redeemable, in whole or in
        part, at the option of the Company.

Senior
        Subordinated Notes

As
        of
        February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $250.0 million aggregate
        principal amount of 8 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due January 2012 (the
        “January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes”). The January 2002 Senior Subordinated
        Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at
        any
        time on or after January 15, 2007.

Contractual
        Obligations and Commitments

The
        following table sets forth information about the Company’s long-term contractual
        obligations outstanding at February 28, 2006. It brings together data for
        easy
        reference from the consolidated balance sheet and from individual notes to
        the
        Company’s consolidated financial statements. See Notes 8,

9,
        11,
        12, 13 and 14

to the
        Company’s consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual
        Report on Form 10-K for detailed discussion of items noted in the following
        table.

(1)

Total
        unconditional purchase obligations consist of $26.1

million
        for contracts to purchase various spirits over the next

seven

fiscal
        years, $1,920.9 million for contracts to purchase grapes over the next sixteen
        fiscal years, $82.5 million for contracts to purchase bulk wine over the
        next eight fiscal years and $76.3 million for processing contracts over the
        next nine fiscal years. See Note 14 to the Company’s consolidated financial
        statements located in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a detailed
        discussion of these items.

Equity
        Offerings

During
        July 2003, the Company completed a public offering of 19,600,000 shares of
        its
        Class A Common Stock resulting in net proceeds to the Company, after deducting
        underwriting discounts and expenses, of $261.2 million. In addition, the
        Company
        also completed a public offering of 170,500 shares of its 5.75% Series A
        Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (“Preferred Stock”) resulting in net
        proceeds to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses,
        of
        $164.9 million. The Class A Common Stock offering and the Preferred Stock
        offering are referred to together as the “2003 Equity Offerings.” The majority
        of the net proceeds from the 2003 Equity Offerings were used to repay the
        Company’s then existing bridge loans that were incurred to partially finance the
        Hardy Acquisition. The remaining proceeds were used to repay term loan
        borrowings under the Company’s then existing senior credit
        facility.


Capital
        Expenditures

During
        Fiscal 2006, the Company incurred $132.5 million for capital expenditures.
        The
        Company plans to spend approximately $155 million for capital expenditures
        in
        Fiscal 2007, excluding any amount the Company may incur after the completion
        of
        the pending acquisition of Vincor. In addition, the Company continues to
        consider the purchase, lease and development of vineyards and may incur
        additional expenditures for vineyards if opportunities become available.
        See
“Business - Sources and Availability of Raw Materials” under Item 1 of this
        Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management reviews the capital expenditure program
        periodically and modifies it as required to meet current business
        needs.

Effects
        of Inflation and Changing Prices

The
        Company’s results of operations and financial condition have not been
        significantly affected by inflation and changing prices. The Company has
        been
        able, subject to normal competitive conditions, to pass along rising costs
        through increased selling prices and identifying on-going cost savings
        initiatives. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will continue
        to be able to pass along rising costs through increased selling
        prices.

Critical
        Accounting Policies

The
        Company’s significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to
        the Company’s consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Annual
        Report on Form 10-K. However, certain of the Company’s accounting policies are
        particularly important to the portrayal of the Company’s financial position and
        results of operations and require the application of significant judgment
        by the
        Company’s management; as a result they are subject to an inherent degree of
        uncertainty. In applying those policies, the Company’s management uses its
        judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the
        determination of certain estimates. Those estimates are based on the Company’s
        historical experience, the Company’s observance of trends in the industry,
        information provided by the Company’s customers and information available from
        other outside sources, as appropriate. On an ongoing basis, the Company reviews
        its estimates to ensure that they appropriately reflect changes in the Company’s
        business. The Company’s critical accounting policies include:

·

Accounting
                  for promotional activities.

Sales
                  reflect reductions attributable to consideration given to customers
                  in
                  various customer incentive programs, including pricing discounts
                  on single
                  transactions, volume discounts, promotional and advertising allowances,
                  coupons, and rebates. Certain customer incentive programs require
                  management to estimate the cost of those programs. The accrued
                  liability
                  for these programs is determined through analysis of programs offered,
                  historical trends, expectations regarding customer and consumer
                  participation, sales and payment trends, and experience with payment
                  patterns associated with similar programs that had been previously
                  offered. If assumptions included in the Company’s estimates were to change
                  or market conditions were to change, then material incremental
                  reductions
                  to revenue could be required, which would have a material adverse
                  impact
                  on the Company’s financial statements. Promotional costs were $501.9
                  million, $390.9 million and $336.4 million for Fiscal 2006, Fiscal
                  and Fiscal 2004, respectively.


·

Inventory
                  valuation.

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being
                  determined on the first-in, first-out method. The Company assesses
                  the
                  valuation of its inventories and reduces the carrying value of
                  those
                  inventories that are obsolete or in excess of the Company’s forecasted
                  usage to their estimated net realizable value. The Company estimates
                  the
                  net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and
                  assumptions
                  including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand
                  and market
                  requirements. Reductions to the carrying value of inventories are
                  recorded
                  in cost of product sold. If the future demand for the Company’s
                  products is less favorable than the Company’s forecasts, then the value of
                  the inventories may be required to be reduced, which could result
                  in
                  material additional expense to the Company and have a material
                  adverse
                  impact on the Company’s financial
                  statements.

·

Accounting
                  for business combinations.

The acquisition of businesses is an important element of the Company’s
                  strategy. Under the purchase method, the Company is required to
                  record the
                  net assets acquired at the estimated fair value at the date of
                  acquisition. The determination of the fair value of the assets
                  acquired
                  and liabilities assumed requires the Company to make estimates
                  and
                  assumptions that affect the Company’s financial statements. For example,
                  the Company’s acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other
                  intangible assets; the value and estimated life of those assets
                  may affect
                  the amount of future period amortization expense for intangible
                  assets
                  with finite lives as well as possible impairment charges that may
                  be
                  incurred.

·

Impairment
                  of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives.

Intangible assets with indefinite lives consist primarily of trademarks
                  as
                  well as agency relationships. The Company is required to analyze
                  its
                  goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for
                  impairment
                  on an annual basis as well as when events and circumstances indicate
                  that
                  an impairment may have occurred. Certain factors that may occur
                  and
                  indicate that an impairment exists include, but are not limited
                  to,
                  operating results that are lower than expected and adverse industry
                  or
                  market economic trends. The impairment testing requires management
                  to
                  estimate the fair value of the assets or reporting unit and record
                  an
                  impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value over the fair
                  value.
                  The estimate of fair value of the assets is generally determined
                  on the
                  basis of discounted future cash flows. The estimate of fair value
                  of the
                  reporting unit is generally determined on the basis of discounted
                  future
                  cash flows supplemented by the market approach. In estimating the
                  fair
                  value, management must make assumptions and projections regarding
                  such
                  items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and
                  other
                  factors. The assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are
                  generally
                  consistent with the past performance of each reporting unit and
                  other
                  intangible assets and are also consistent with the projections
                  and
                  assumptions that are used in current operating plans. Such assumptions
                  are
                  subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive
                  conditions. If these estimates or their related assumptions change
                  in the
                  future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss
                  for these
                  assets. The recording of any resulting impairment loss could have
                  a
                  material adverse impact on the Company’s financial
                  statements.


Accounting
        Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted

In
        November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
        No.
        151 (“SFAS No. 151”), “Inventory Costs - an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.”
SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43 (“ARB
        No. 43”), “Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins,” Chapter
        4, “Inventory Pricing,” to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle
        facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage).
        SFAS
        No. 151 requires that those items be recognized as current period charges.
        In
        addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads
        to
        the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production
        facilities. As required, the Company adopted SFAS No. 151 on March 1, 2006.
        The
        adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a material impact on the Company’s
        consolidated financial statements.

In
        December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
        No.
        123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS No. 123(R)”), “Share-Based Payment.” SFAS No. 123(R)
        replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (“SFAS No. 123”),
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” and supersedes Accounting Principles
        Board Opinion No. 25 (“APB Opinion No. 25”), “Accounting for Stock Issued to
        Employees.” SFAS No. 123(R) requires the cost resulting from all share-based
        payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. In addition,
        SFAS No. 123(R) establishes fair value as the measurement objective in
        accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires all entities
        to
        apply a grant date fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for
        share-based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123(R) also amends Statement of
        Financial Accounting Standards No. 95 (“SFAS No. 95”), “Statement of Cash
        Flows,” to require that excess tax benefits be reported as a financing cash
        inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid. SFAS No. 123(R) applies
        to all
        awards granted, modified, repurchased, or cancelled after the required effective
        date (see below). In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
        staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (“SAB No. 107”), “Share-Based
        Payment,” to express the views of the staff regarding the interaction between
        SFAS No. 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations and to provide the
        staff’s
        views regarding the valuation of share-based payment arrangements for public
        companies. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) as of March 1, 2006, using
        the
        modified prospective application. This application requires compensation
        cost to
        be recognized on or after the required effective date for the portion of
        outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered
        based on the grant date fair value of those awards as calculated under SFAS
        No.
        123 for either recognition or pro forma disclosures. As of March 1, 2006,
        the
        unrecognized compensation expense associated with the remaining portion of
        the
        unvested outstanding awards is not material. In addition, the Company estimates
        stock-based compensation expense for options to be granted for the year ended
        February 28, 2007, to approximate $8.5 million, excluding any options granted
        or which may be granted in connection with the pending acquisition of
        Vincor.


In
        May
        2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154
        (“SFAS
        No. 154”), “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections - a replacement of APB
        Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.” SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements
        for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle.
        SFAS
        No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle and requires
        retrospective application to prior periods’ financial statements of changes in
        accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the
        period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of changing to the new
        accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 requires that a change in depreciation,
        amortization, or depletion method for long-lived, nonfinancial assets be
        accounted for as a change of estimate effected by a change in accounting
        principle. SFAS No. 154 also carries forward without change the guidance
        in APB
        Opinion No. 20 with respect to accounting for changes in accounting estimates,
        changes in the reporting unit and correction of an error in previously issued
        financial statements. As required, the Company adopted SFAS No. 154 on March
        1,
        2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 154 did not have a material impact on the
        Company’s consolidated financial statements.


Item
        7A.

Quantitative
        and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The
        Company, as a result of its global operating, acquisition and financing
        activities, is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign
        currency exchange rates and interest rates. To manage the volatility relating
        to
        these risks, the Company periodically purchases and/or sells derivative
        instruments including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate
        swap
        agreements. The Company uses derivative instruments solely to reduce the
        financial impact of these risks and does not use derivative instruments for
        trading purposes.

Foreign
        currency forward contracts are or may be used to hedge existing foreign currency
        denominated assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated
        sales both to third parties as well as intercompany sales, intercompany
        principal and interest payments, and in connection with acquisitions or joint
        venture investments outside the U.S. As of February 28, 2006, the Company
        had
        exposures to foreign currency risk primarily related to the Australian dollar,
        euro, New Zealand dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and Mexican
        peso.

As
        of
        February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the Company had outstanding foreign
        exchange derivative instruments with a notional value of $1,254.7 million
        and
        $601.6 million

,

respectively. Approximately 65% of the Company’s total exposures were hedged as
        of February 28, 2006. Using a sensitivity analysis based on estimated fair
        value
        of open contracts using forward rates, if the contract base currency had
        been
        10% weaker as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the fair value
        of
        open foreign exchange contracts would have been decreased by $77.5 million
        and
        $65.2 million, respectively. Losses or gains from the revaluation or settlement
        of the related underlying positions would substantially offset such gains
        or
        losses on the derivative instruments.

Subsequent
        to February 28, 2006, the Company entered into a foreign currency forward
        contract in connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor to fix
        the U.S. dollar cost of the acquisition and the payment of certain outstanding
        indebtedness. The foreign currency forward contract is for the purchase of
        Cdn$1.4 billion at a rate of Cdn$1.149 to U.S.$1.00. The Company will be
        required to mark the foreign currency forward contract to market with resulting
        gains or losses to be recorded in future results of operations. The Company
        currently expects to complete the acquisition of Vincor in early June
        2006.

The
        fair
        value of fixed rate

debt
        is
        subject to interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. The
        estimated fair value of the Company’s total fixed rate debt, including current
        maturities, was $1,010.5 million and $1,080.2 million as of February

28,
        2006, and February 28, 2005, respectively. A hypothetical 1% increase from
        prevailing interest rates as of February 28, 2006,

and
        February 28, 2005, would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of fixed
        interest rate long-term debt by $26.9 million

and

$37.0
        million,

respectively.

As
        of
        February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the Company had outstanding five
        year
        delayed start interest rate swap agreements and five year interest rate swap
        agreements, respectively, to minimize interest rate volatility. The swap
        agreements fix LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0 million of the Company’s
        floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1% over the five year term.
        A
        hypothetical 1% increase from prevailing interest rates as of

February
        28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, would have increased the fair value of the
        interest rate swaps by $43.8 million and $53.1 million,
        respectively.

In
        addition

to
        the
        $1,010.5 million and $1,080.2 million estimated fair value of fixed

rate
        debt outstanding as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, respectively,
        the Company also had variable rate debt

outstanding
        (primarily LIBOR based) as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, of
        $1,856.1 million and $2,310.6 million, respectively. Using a sensitivity
        analysis based on a hypothetical 1% increase in prevailing interest rates
        over

a
        12-month

period,
        the approximate increase in cash required for interest as of February 28,
        2006,
        and February 28, 2005, is $18.6 million and $23.1 million,
        respectively.


Item
        8.

Financial
        Statements and Supplementary Data

CONSTELLATION
        BRANDS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX
        TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FEBRUARY
        28, 2006

The
        following information is presented in this Annual Report on Form
        10-K:

Page

Report
                    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - KPMG LLP

Report
                    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - KPMG LLP

Management’s
                    Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Consolidated
                    Balance Sheets - February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005

Consolidated
                    Statements of Income for the years ended February 28, 2006,

February
                    28, 2005, and February 29, 2004

Consolidated
                    Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended

February
                    28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004

Consolidated
                    Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended February 28, 2006,

February
                    28, 2005, and February 29, 2004

Notes
                    to Consolidated Financial Statements

Selected
                    Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited)











Report
        of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The
        Board
        of Directors and Stockholders

Constellation
        Brands, Inc.:

We
        have
        audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Constellation Brands,
        Inc. and subsidiaries as of February 28, 2006 and 2005, and the related
        consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash
        flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended February 28, 2006.
        These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s
        management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
        financial statements based on our audits.

We
        conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
        Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
        we plan
        and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
        statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
        on a
        test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
        statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
        and
        significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
        financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
        reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
        our
        opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
        fairly,
        in all material respects, the financial position of Constellation Brands,
        Inc.
        and subsidiaries as of February 28, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their
        operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
        ended February 28, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
        principles.

We
        also
        have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
        Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Constellation Brands,
        Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of February 28, 2006, based
        on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the
        Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO),
        and our
        report dated May 1, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s
        assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial
        reporting.

/s/
        KPMG
        LLP

Rochester,
        New York

May
        1,


Report
        of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The
        Board
        of Directors and Stockholders

Constellation
        Brands, Inc.:

We
        have
        audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s
        Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Constellation
        Brands, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
        as
        of February 28, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
        Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
        of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Constellation Brands, Inc.’s management is
        responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
        and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
        reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s
        assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
        over financial reporting based on our audit.

We
        conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
        Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
        we plan
        and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
        internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
        respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
        over
        financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating
        the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
        such
        other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
        that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
        company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
        provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
        and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
        with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
        financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
        to
        the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
        reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
        provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
        to
        permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
        accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
        are
        being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
        of
        the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
        timely
        detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
        assets that could have a material effect on the financial
        statements.

Because
        of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
        not
        prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
        effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
        become
        inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
        with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In
        our
        opinion, management’s assessment that Constellation Brands, Inc. maintained
        effective internal control over financial reporting as of February 28, 2006,
        is
        fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in
        Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
        Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion,
        Constellation Brands, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective
        internal control over financial reporting as of February 28, 2006, based
        on

criteria
        established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee

of
        Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)

.


We
        also
        have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
        Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of
        Constellation Brands, Inc. and subsidiaries as of February 28, 2006 and 2005,
        and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’
equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
        February 28, 2006, and our report dated May 1, 2006 expressed an unqualified
        opinion on those consolidated financial statements.

/s/
        KPMG
        LLP

Rochester,
        New York

May
        1,


Management’s
        Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management
        of Constellation Brands, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the
“Company”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of
        internal control over financial reporting. This system is designed to provide
        reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
        the
        preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
        accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
        America.

The
        Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
        procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
        reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
        dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable
        assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
        of
        financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made
        only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
        Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
        timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
        Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
        statements.

Because
        of its inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial
        reporting can provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect
        misstatements. Further, because of changes in conditions, effectiveness of
        internal controls over financial reporting may vary over time. Our system
        contains self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct
        deficiencies as they are identified.

Management
        conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the system of internal control
        over financial reporting based on the framework in

Internal
        Control - Integrated Framework

issued
        by
        the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
        Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s system of
        internal control over financial reporting was effective as of February 28,
        2006.

Management’s
        assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
        reporting has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public
        accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included
        herein.







CONSTELLATION
      BRANDS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FEBRUARY
      28, 2006

1.

SUMMARY
      OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

Description
      of business -

Constellation
      Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) operate primarily in the
      beverage alcohol industry. The Company is a leading international producer
      and
      marketer of beverage alcohol with a broad portfolio of brands across the wine,
      imported beer and spirits categories. The Company has the largest wine business
      in the world and is the largest multi-category supplier of beverage alcohol
      in
      the United States (“U.S.”); a leading producer and exporter of wine from
      Australia and New Zealand; and both a major producer and independent drinks
      wholesaler in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”). In North America, the Company
      distributes its products through wholesale distributors. In Australia, the
      Company distributes its products directly to off-premise accounts, such as
      major
      retail chains, on-premise accounts, such as hotels and restaurants, and large
      wholesalers. In the U.K., the Company distributes its products directly to
      off-premise accounts, such as major retail chains, and to other wholesalers.
      Through the Company’s U.K. wholesale business, the Company distributes its
      branded products and those of other major drinks companies to on-premise
      accounts: pubs, clubs, hotels and restaurants.

Principles
      of consolidation -

The
      consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts of
      Constellation Brands, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries. All intercompany
      accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

Management’s
      use of estimates -

The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
      accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
      that
      affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
      contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
      the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
      Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue
      recognition -

Sales
      are
      recognized when title passes to the customer, which is generally when the
      product is shipped. Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are
      classified as sales. Sales reflect reductions attributable to consideration
      given to customers in various customer incentive programs, including pricing
      discounts on single transactions, volume discounts, promotional and advertising
      allowances, coupons, and rebates.

Cost
      of product sold -

The
      types
      of costs included in cost of product sold are raw materials, packaging
      materials, manufacturing costs, plant administrative support and overheads,
      and
      freight and warehouse costs (including distribution network costs). Distribution
      network costs include inbound freight charges and outbound shipping and handling
      costs, purchasing and receiving costs, inspection costs, warehousing and
      internal transfer costs.


Selling,
      general and administrative expenses -

The
      types
      of costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses consist
      predominately of advertising and non-manufacturing administrative and overhead
      costs. Distribution network costs are not included in the Company’s selling,
      general and administrative expenses, but are included in cost of product sold
      as
      described above. The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred, shown
      or
      distributed. Prepaid advertising costs at February 28, 2006, and February 28,
      2005, were not material. Advertising expense for the years ended February 28,
      2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, was $142.4 million, $139.1
      million and $117.8 million, respectively.

Foreign

currency
      translation -

The
      “functional currency” for translating the accounts of the Company’s operations
      outside the U.S. is the local currency. The translation from the applicable
      foreign currencies to U.S. dollars is performed for balance sheet accounts
      using
      exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue and expense
      accounts using a weighted average exchange rate during the period. The resulting
      translation adjustments are recorded as a component of Accumulated Other
      Comprehensive Income (Loss) (“AOCI”). Gains or losses resulting from foreign
      currency denominated transactions are included in selling, general and
      administrative expenses in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. The
      Company engages in foreign currency denominated transactions with customers,
      suppliers and non-U.S. subsidiaries. Aggregate foreign currency transaction
      net
      gains were $5.1 million, $5.3 million and $16.6 million for the years ended
      February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004,
      respectively.

Cash
      investments -

Cash
      investments consist of highly liquid investments with an original maturity
      when
      purchased of three months or less and are stated at cost, which approximates
      market value. The amounts at February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, are
      not
      significant.

Allowance
      for doubtful accounts -

The
      Company records an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses
      resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The
      majority of the accounts receivable balance is generated from sales to
      independent distributors with whom the Company has a predetermined collection
      date arranged through electronic funds transfer. The allowance for doubtful
      accounts was $13.5 million and $16.3 million as of February 28, 2006, and
      February 28, 2005, respectively.

Fair
      value of financial instruments -

To
      meet
      the reporting requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
      107, “Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments,” the Company
      calculates the fair value of financial instruments using quoted market prices
      whenever available. When quoted market prices are not available, the Company
      uses standard pricing models for various types of financial instruments (such
      as
      forwards, options, swaps, etc.) which take into account the present value of
      estimated future cash flows.


The
      carrying amount and estimated fair value of the Company’s financial instruments
      are summarized as follows:

The
      following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each
      class of financial instruments:

Cash
      and cash investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable

:
      The
      carrying amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these
      instruments.

Investment
      in marketable equity securities

:
      The
      fair value is estimated based on quoted market prices.

Currency
      forward contracts:

The fair
      value is estimated based on quoted market prices.

Interest
      rate swap contracts:

The fair
      value is estimated based on quoted market prices.

Notes
      payable to banks:

These
      instruments are variable interest rate bearing notes for which the carrying
      value approximates the fair value.

Long-term
      debt

:
      The
      senior credit facility is subject to variable interest rates which are
      frequently reset; accordingly, the carrying value of this debt approximates
      its
      fair value. The fair value of the remaining long-term debt, which is all fixed
      rate, is estimated by discounting cash flows using interest rates currently
      available for debt with similar terms and maturities.

Derivative
      instruments -

As
      a
      multinational company, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in
      foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates that could affect the
      Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The amount of
      volatility realized will vary based upon the effectiveness and level of
      derivative instruments outstanding during a particular period of time, as well
      as the currency and interest rate market movements during that same
      period.


The
      Company enters into derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swaps and
      foreign currency forwards, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risks.
      In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 (“SFAS
      No. 133”), “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as
      amended, the Company recognizes all derivatives as either assets or liabilities
      on the balance sheet and measures those instruments at fair value. The fair
      values of the Company’s derivative instruments change with fluctuations in
      interest rates and/or currency rates and are expected to offset changes in
      the
      values of the underlying exposures. The Company’s derivative instruments are
      held solely to hedge economic exposures. The Company follows strict policies
      to
      manage interest rate and foreign currency risks, including prohibitions on
      derivative market-making or other speculative activities. As of February 28,
      2006, and February 28, 2005, the Company had foreign exchange contracts
      outstanding with a notional value of $1,254.7 million and $601.6 million,
      respectively. In addition, as of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005,
      the
      Company had interest rate swap agreements outstanding with a notional value
      of
      $1,200.0 million (see Note 9).

To
      qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, the details of the hedging
      relationship must be formally documented at inception of the arrangement,
      including the risk management objective, hedging strategy, hedged item, specific
      risk that is being hedged, the derivative instrument, how effectiveness is
      being
      assessed and how ineffectiveness will be measured. The derivative must be highly
      effective in offsetting either changes in the fair value or cash flows, as
      appropriate, of the risk being hedged. Effectiveness is evaluated on a
      retrospective and prospective basis based on quantitative measures.

Certain
      of the Company’s derivative instruments do not qualify for SFAS No. 133 hedge
      accounting treatment; for others, the Company chooses not to maintain the
      required documentation to apply hedge accounting treatment. These instruments
      are used to hedge the Company’s exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign
      currency denominated receivables and payables, foreign currency investments,
      primarily consisting of loans to subsidiaries, and cash flows related primarily
      to repatriation of those loans or investments. Forward contracts, generally
      less
      than 12 months in duration, are used to hedge some of these risks. The Company’s
      derivative policy permits the use of non-SFAS No. 133 hedging when the hedging
      instrument is settled within the fiscal quarter or offsets a recognized balance
      sheet exposure. In these circumstances, the mark to fair value is reported
      currently through earnings in selling, general and administrative expenses
      in
      the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.

Furthermore,
      for derivative instruments which qualify for hedge accounting treatment, when
      it
      is determined that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective
      as
      a hedge, the Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. The Company
      discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when (i) the derivative is no longer
      highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of a hedged item;
      (ii)
      the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised; (iii) it is no
      longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur; or (iv) management
      determines that designating the derivative as a hedging instrument is no longer
      appropriate.

Cash
      flow hedges:

The
      Company is exposed to foreign denominated cash flow fluctuations in connection
      with sales to third parties, intercompany sales, available for sale securities
      and intercompany financing arrangements. Foreign currency forward contracts
      are
      used to hedge certain of these risks. In addition, the Company utilizes interest
      rate swaps to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates. Derivatives
      managing the Company’s cash flow exposures generally mature within three years
      or less, with a maximum maturity of five years. Throughout the term of the
      designated cash flow hedge relationship, but at least quarterly, a retrospective
      evaluation and prospective assessment of hedge effectiveness is performed.
      In
      the event the relationship is no longer effective, the fair market value of
      the
      hedging derivative instrument is recognized immediately in the Company’s
      Consolidated Statements of Income. In conjunction with its effectiveness
      testing, the Company also evaluates ineffectiveness associated with the hedge
      relationship. Resulting ineffectiveness, if any, is recognized immediately
      in
      the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.


The
      Company records the fair value of its foreign exchange contracts qualifying
      for
      cash flow hedge accounting treatment in its consolidated balance sheet with
      the
      related gain or loss on those contracts deferred in stockholders’ equity (as a
      component of AOCI). These deferred gains or losses are recognized in the
      Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income in the same period in which the
      underlying hedged items are recognized, and on the same line item as the
      underlying hedged items. However, to the extent that any derivative instrument
      is not considered to be perfectly effective in offsetting the change in the
      value of the hedged item, the amount related to the ineffective portion of
      this
      derivative instrument is immediately recognized in the Company’s Consolidated
      Statements of Income in selling, general and administrative
      expenses.

The
      Company expects $13.4 million of net gains to be reclassified from AOCI to
      earnings within the next 12 months. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness
      associated with the Company’s designated cash flow hedge instruments recognized
      in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income during the years ended
      February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, was not material.
      All components of the Company’s derivative instruments’ gains or losses are
      included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. In addition, the amount
      of
      net gains reclassified into earnings as a result of the discontinuance of cash
      flow hedge accounting due to the probability that the original forecasted
      transaction would not occur by the end of the originally specified time period
      was not material for the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005,
      and
      February 29, 2004.

Fair
      value hedges:

Fair
      value hedges are hedges that offset the risk of changes in the fair values
      of
      recorded assets and liabilities, and firm commitments. The Company records
      changes in fair value of derivative instruments which are designated and deemed
      effective as fair value hedges, in earnings offset by the corresponding changes
      in the fair value of the hedged items.

The
      amount of hedge ineffectiveness associated with the Company’s designated fair
      value hedge instruments recognized in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of
      Income for the years ended February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, was not
      material. The Company did not have any fair value hedge instruments outstanding
      for the year ended February 29, 2004. All components of the Company’s derivative
      instruments’ gains or losses are included in the assessment of hedge
      effectiveness. There were no gains or losses recognized in earnings resulting
      from a hedged firm commitment no longer qualifying as a fair value
      hedge.

Net
      investment hedges:

Net
      investment hedges are hedges that use derivative instruments or non-derivative
      instruments to hedge the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a
      foreign operation. The Company manages currency exposures resulting from its
      net
      investments in foreign subsidiaries principally with debt denominated in the
      related foreign currency. Gains and losses on these instruments are recorded
      as
      foreign currency translation adjustments in AOCI. Currently, the Company has
      designated the Sterling Senior Notes and the Sterling Series C Senior Notes
      (as
      defined in Note 9) totaling £155.0 million aggregate principal amount as a hedge
      against the net investment in the Company’s U.K. subsidiary. For the years ended
      February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, net gains (losses)
      of $25.9 million, ($8.1) million and ($45.9) million, respectively, are included
      in foreign currency translation adjustments within AOCI.


Counterparty
      credit risk:

Counterparty
      credit risk relates to losses the Company could incur if a counterparty defaults
      on a derivative contract. The Company manages exposure to counterparty credit
      risk by requiring specified minimum credit standards and diversification of
      counterparties. The Company enters into master agreements with its
      counterparties that allow netting of certain exposures in order to manage this
      risk. All of the Company’s counterpart exposures are with counterparts that have
      investment grade ratings. The Company has procedures to monitor the credit
      exposure for both mark to market and future potential exposures.

Inventories
      -

Inventories
      are stated at the lower of cost (computed in accordance with the first-in,
      first-out method) or market. Elements of cost include materials, labor and
      overhead and are classified as follows:

A
      substantial portion of barreled whiskey and brandy will not be sold within
      one
      year because of the duration of the aging process. All barreled whiskey and
      brandy are classified as in-process inventories and are included in current
      assets, in accordance with industry practice. Bulk wine inventories are also
      included as in-process inventories within current assets, in accordance with
      the
      general practices of the wine industry, although a portion of such inventories
      may be aged for periods greater than one year. Warehousing, insurance, ad
      valorem taxes and other carrying charges applicable to barreled whiskey and
      brandy held for aging are included in inventory costs.

The
      Company assesses the valuation of its inventories and reduces the carrying
      value
      of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of the Company’s forecasted
      usage to their estimated net realizable value. The Company estimates the net
      realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions
      including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market
      requirements. Reductions to the carrying value of inventories are recorded
      in
      cost of product sold. If the future demand for the Company’s products is
      less favorable than the Company’s forecasts, then the value of the inventories
      may be required to be reduced, which would result in additional expense to
      the
      Company and affect its results of operations.

Property,
      plant and equipment -

Property,
      plant and equipment is stated at cost. Major additions and betterments are
      charged to property accounts, while maintenance and repairs are charged to
      operations as incurred. The cost of properties sold or otherwise disposed of
      and
      the related accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the accounts at the
      time of disposal and resulting gains and losses are included as a component
      of
      operating income.

Depreciation
      -

Depreciation
      is computed primarily using the straight-line method over the following
      estimated useful lives:


Goodwill
      and other intangible assets -

In
      accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (“SFAS No.
      142”), “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” the Company reviews its goodwill
      and indefinite lived intangible assets annually for impairment, or sooner,
      if
      events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an
      asset
      may not be recoverable. The Company uses December 31 as its annual impairment
      test measurement date. Indefinite lived intangible assets consist principally
      of
      trademarks. Intangible assets determined to have a finite life, primarily
      distribution agreements, are amortized over their estimated useful lives and
      are
      subject to review for impairment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
      No.
      144 (as defined below). Note 6 provides a summary of intangible assets
      segregated between amortizable and nonamortizable amounts. No instances of
      impairment were noted on the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets for
      the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29,
      2004.

Other
      assets -

Other
      assets include the following: (i) investments in equity method investees which
      are carried under the equity method of accounting (see

Note
      7);

(ii)
      deferred financing costs which are stated at cost, net of accumulated
      amortization, and are amortized on an effective interest basis over the term
      of
      the related debt; (iii) deferred tax assets which are stated at cost,

net
      of
      valuation allowances

(see
      Note 10)

;
      and
      (iv) derivative assets which are stated at fair value (see discussion
      above).

Long-lived
      assets impairment -

In
      accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 (“SFAS No.
      144”), “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the
      Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes
      in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
      recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
      comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted cash
      flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset
      exceeds its estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment charge
      is
      recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds
      its
      fair value. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of the carrying
      amount or fair value less costs to

sell
      and
      are no longer depreciated.

Pursuant
      to this policy and in connection with the restructuring plan of the
      Constellation Wines segment

(see
      Note 20), the Company recorded losses of $2.1 million on the disposal of certain
      property, plant and equipment during the year ended February 29, 2004. These
      losses are included in restructuring and related charges on the Company’s
      Consolidated Statements of Income as they are part of the restructuring plan.
      No
      losses were recorded for the years ended February 28, 2006, and February 28,
      2005.

Income
      taxes -

The
      Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes.
      This
      method accounts for deferred income taxes by applying statutory rates in effect
      at the balance sheet date to the difference between the financial reporting
      and
      tax bases of assets and liabilities.

Environmental
      -

Environmental
      expenditures that relate to current operations or to an existing condition
      caused by past operations, and which do not contribute to current or future
      revenue generation, are expensed. Liabilities for environmental risks or
      components thereof are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remedial
      efforts are probable, and the cost can be reasonably estimated. Generally,
      the
      timing of these accruals coincides with the completion of a feasibility study
      or
      the Company’s commitment to a formal plan of action. Liabilities for
      environmental costs were not material at February 28, 2006, and February 28,
      2005.


Earnings
      per common share -

Effective
      June 1, 2004, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 03-6 (“EITF No. 03-6”),
“Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No.
      128.” EITF No. 03-6 clarifies what is meant by a “participating security,”
provides guidance on applying the two-class method for computing earnings per
      share, and requires affected companies to retroactively restate earnings per
      share amounts for all periods presented.

The
      Company has two classes of common stock: Class A Common Stock and Class B
      Convertible Common Stock. With respect to dividend rights, the Class A Common
      Stock is entitled to cash dividends of at least ten percent higher than those
      declared and paid on the Class B Convertible Common Stock. Therefore, under
      EITF
      No. 03-6, the Class B Convertible Common Stock is considered a participating
      security requiring the use of the two-class method for the computation of net
      income per share - basic, rather than the if-converted method which
      was previously used. In addition, the shares of Class B Convertible Common
      Stock are considered to be participating convertible securities since the shares
      of Class B Convertible Common Stock are convertible into shares of Class A
      Common Stock on a one-to-one basis at any time at the option of the holder.
      The
      two-class computation method for each period reflects the amount of allocated
      undistributed earnings per share computed using the participation percentage
      which reflects the minimum dividend rights of each class of stock. Earnings
      per
      share - basic reflects the application of EITF No. 03-6 and has been computed
      using the two-class method for all periods presented. Earnings per share -
      diluted continues to be computed using the if-converted method (see Note
      16).

Basic
      earnings per common share excludes the effect of common stock equivalents and
      is
      computed using the two-class computation method. Diluted earnings per common
      share reflects the potential dilution that could result if securities or other
      contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock.
      Diluted earnings per common share assumes the exercise of stock options using
      the treasury stock method and the conversion of Class B Convertible Common
      Stock
      and Preferred Stock (as defined in Note 15) using

the
      if-converted method.

Stock-based
      employee compensation plans

-

As
      of
      February 28, 2006, the Company has four stock-based employee compensation plans,
      which are described more fully

in
      Note
      15. The

Company
      applies the intrinsic value method described in Accounting Principles Board
      Opinion No. 25 (“APB No. 25”), “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and
      related interpretations in accounting for these plans. In accordance with APB
      No. 25, the compensation cost for stock options is recognized in income based
      on
      the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the stock at the grant date
      of
      the award or other measurement date over the amount an employee must pay to
      acquire the stock. Options granted under the Company’s stock option plans have
      an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock
      on
      the date of grant; therefore, no incremental compensation expense has been
      recognized for grants made to employees under the Company’s stock option plans.
      The Company utilizes the disclosure-only provisions of Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 123 (“SFAS No. 123”), “Accounting for Stock-Based
      Compensation,” as amended.

In
      December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
      123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS No. 123(R)”), “Share-Based Payment,” which replaces
      SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB No. 25. SFAS No. 123(R) requires the cost
      resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the
      finan

cial
      statements. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on March 1, 2006. See Note
      for additional discussion regarding SFAS No. 123(R).


Stock-based
      awards, primarily stock options, granted by the Company are subject to specific
      vesting conditions, generally time vesting, or at the date the employee retires
      (as defined by the stock option plan), if earlier. Under APB No. 25, as the
      exercise price is equal to the market value of the underlying common stock
      on
      the date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized for the granting of
      these stock options. Under the disclosure only provisions of SFAS No. 123,
      for
      stock-based awards that specify an employee vests in the award upon retirement,
      the Company accounts for the compensation expense ratably over the stated
      vesting period. If the employee retires before the end of the stated vesting
      period, then any remaining unrecognized compensation expense is accounted for
      at
      the date of retirement. The Company will continue to apply this approach for
      any
      awards granted prior to the Company’s adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on March 1,
      2006, and for the unrecognized compensation expense associated with the
      remaining portion of the then unvested outstanding awards. The remaining portion
      of the unvested outstanding awards as of February 28, 2006, is not
      material.

With
      the
      Company’s adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on March 1, 2006, the Company revised its
      approach for recognition of compensation expense for all new stock-based awards
      that accelerate vesting upon retirement. Under this revised approach,
      compensation expense will be recognized immediately for awards granted to
      retirement-eligible employees or over the period from the date of grant to
      the
      date of retirement-eligibility if that is expected to occur during the requisite
      service period.

On
      February 16, 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the accelerated
      vesting of certain unvested stock options previously awarded under the Company’s
      Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan and Incentive Stock Option Plan. Nearly all
      of
      the accelerated vesting was for stock options awarded with a performance-based
      acceleration feature. The acceleration of these stock options will enable the
      Company to more accurately forecast future compensation expense and to reduce
      related earnings volatility. As a result of the accelerated vesting, options
      to
      purchase 5,130,778 shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, of which 98.7%
      were in-the-money, became fully exercisable. The acceleration eliminates future
      compensation expense of approximately $38.8 million that would have otherwise
      been recognized in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income beginning
      March 1, 2006, through February 28, 2010. Also on February 16, 2006, the Company
      announced its worldwide wines reorganization (see Note 20). As a result of
      these foregoing actions, the Company recorded $7.3 million of stock-based
      employee compensation expense during the year ended February 28, 2006, of which
      $6.9 million is recorded as Restructuring and Related Charges and $0.4 million
      is recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company’s
      Consolidated Statements of Income.

The
      following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share
      as
      if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
      to stock-based employee compensation:


2.

RECENTLY
      ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS:

On
      October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (“AJCA”) was signed into law.
      The AJCA includes a special one-time 85% dividends received deduction for
      certain foreign earnings that are repatriated. In December 2004, the Financial
      Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109-2
      (“FSP FAS 109-2”), “Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings
      Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.” FSP FAS
      109-2 provides accounting and disclosure guidance for this repatriation
      provision (see Note 10).

Effective
      September 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
      Standards No. 153 (“SFAS No. 153”), “Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets - an
      amendment of APB Opinion No. 29.” SFAS No. 153 amends Accounting Principles
      Board Opinion No. 29 (“APB No. 29”), “Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions,”
to eliminate the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges
      of similar productive assets and replace it with a general exception from fair
      value measurement for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. SFAS
      No.
      153 specifies that a nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future
      cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of
      the
      exchange. The adoption of SFAS No. 153 did not have a material impact on the
      Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Effective
      February 28, 2006, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 47 (“FIN No.
      47”), “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations - an
      interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143.” FIN No. 47 clarifies the term
      conditional asset retirement obligation as used in FASB Statement No. 143,
      “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.” A conditional asset retirement
      obligation is an unconditional legal obligation to perform an asset retirement
      activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on
      a
      future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. Therefore,
      an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a
      conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability
      can
      be reasonably estimated. The adoption of FIN No. 47 did not have a material
      impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.


3.

ACQUISITIONS:

Acquisition
      of Robert Mondavi -

On
      December 22, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock
      of
      The Robert Mondavi Corporation (“Robert Mondavi”), a leading premium wine
      producer based in Napa, California. Through this transaction, the Company
      acquired various additional winery and vineyard interests, and, additionally
      produces, markets and sells premium, super-premium and fine California wines
      under the

Woodbridge
      by Robert Mondavi, Robert Mondavi Private Selection and Robert Mondavi Winery
      brand names

.
      As a
      result of the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company acquired an ownership
      interest in Opus One, a joint venture owned equally by Robert Mondavi and Baron
      Philippe de Rothschild, S.A. During September 2005, the Company’s president and
      Baroness Philippine de Rothschild announced an agreement to maintain equal
      ownership of Opus One. Opus One produces fine wines at its Napa Valley
      winery.

The
      acquisition of Robert Mondavi supports the Company’s strategy of strengthening
      the breadth of its portfolio across price segments to capitalize on the overall
      growth in the premium, super-premium and fine wine categories. The Company
      believes that the acquired Robert Mondavi brand names have strong brand
      recognition globally. The vast majority of sales from these brands are generated
      in the United States. The Company is leveraging the Robert Mondavi brands in
      the
      United States through its selling, marketing and distribution infrastructure.
      The Company also intends to further expand distribution for the Robert Mondavi
      brands in Europe through its Constellation Europe infrastructure.

The
      Robert Mondavi acquisition supports the Company’s strategy of growth and breadth
      across categories and geographies, and strengthens its competitive position
      in
      its core markets.

The
      Robert Mondavi acquisition provides the Company with a greater presence in
      the
      growing premium, super-premium and fine wine sectors within the United States
      and the ability to capitalize on the broader geographic distribution in
      strategic international markets.

In
      particular, the Company believes there are growth opportunities for premium,
      super-premium and fine wines in the United Kingdom and other “new world” wine
      markets.

Total
      consideration paid in cash to the Robert Mondavi shareholders was $1,030.7
      million. Additionally, the Company incurred direct acquisition costs of $12.0
      million. The purchase price was financed with borrowings under the Company’s
      2004 Credit Agreement (as defined in Note


).
      In
      accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the acquired net assets
      are
      recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition. The purchase price was based
      primarily on the estimated future operating results of the Robert Mondavi
      business, including the factors described above, as well as an estimated benefit
      from operating cost synergies.

The
      results of operations of the Robert Mondavi business are reported in the
      Constellation Wines segment and have been included in the Consolidated
      Statements of Income since the acquisition date.

The
      following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and
      liabilities assumed in the Robert Mondavi acquisition at the date of
      acquisition, as adjusted for the final appraisal:


The
      trademarks are not subject to amortization. None of the goodwill is expected
      to
      be deductible for tax purposes.

Following
        the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company sold certain of the acquired
        vineyard properties and related assets, investments accounted for under the
        equity method, and other winery properties and related assets, during the
        years
        ended February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005. The Company realized net
        proceeds of $170.8 million from the sale of these assets during the year
        ended
        February 28, 2006. Amounts realized during the year ended February 28, 2005,
        were not material. No gain or loss has been recognized upon the sale of these
        assets.

Hardy
      Acquisition -

On
      March
      27, 2003, the Company acquired control of BRL Hardy Limited, now known as Hardy
      Wine Company Limited (

“Hardy”),
      and on April 9, 2003, the Company completed its acquisition of all of Hardy’s
      outstanding capital stock. As a result of the acquisition of Hardy, the Company
      also acquired the remaining 50% ownership of Pacific Wine Partners LLC (“PWP”),
      the joint venture the Company established with Hardy in July 2001. The
      acquisition of Hardy along with the remaining interest in PWP is referred to
      together as the “Hardy Acquisition.” Through this acquisition, the Company
      acquired one of Australia’s largest wine producers with interests in wineries
      and vineyards in most of Australia’s major wine regions as well as New Zealand
      and the United States and Hardy’s marketing and sales operations in the United
      Kingdom. In October 2005, PWP was merged into another subsidiary of the
      Company.

Total
      consideration paid in cash and Class A Common Stock to the Hardy shareholders
      was $1,137.4 million. Additionally, the Company recorded direct acquisition
      costs of $17.2 million. The acquisition date for accounting purposes is March
      27, 2003. The Company has recorded a $1.6 million reduction in the purchase
      price to reflect imputed interest between the accounting acquisition date and
      the final payment of consideration. This charge is included as interest expense
      in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended February 29, 2004.
      The cash portion of the purchase price paid to the Hardy shareholders and
      optionholders ($1,060.2 million) was financed with $660.2 million of borrowings
      under the Company’s then existing credit agreement and $400.0 million of
      borrowings under the Company’s then existing bridge loan agreement.
      Additionally, the Company issued 6,577,826 shares of the Company’s Class A
      Common Stock, which were valued at $77.2 million based on the simple average
      of
      the closing market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock beginning two
      days before and ending two days after April 4, 2003, the day the Hardy
      shareholders elected the form of consideration they wished to receive. The
      purchase price was based primarily on a discounted cash flow analysis that
      contemplated, among other things, the value of a broader geographic distribution
      in strategic international markets and a presence in the important Australian
      winemaking regions. The Company and Hardy have complementary businesses that
      share a common growth orientation and operating philosophy. The Hardy
      Acquisition supports the Company’s strategy of growth and breadth across
      categories and geographies, and strengthens its competitive position in its
      core
      markets. The purchase price and resulting goodwill were primarily based on
      the
      growth opportunities of the brand portfolio of Hardy. In particular, the Company
      believes there are growth opportunities for Australian wines in the United
      Kingdom, United States and other wine markets. This acquisition supports the
      Company’s strategy of driving long-term growth and positions the Company to
      capitalize on the growth opportunities in “new world” wine markets.

The
      results of operations of Hardy and PWP are reported in the Constellation Wines
      segment and have been included in the Consolidated Statements of Income since
      the accounting acquisition date.


The
      following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and
      liabilities assumed in the Hardy Acquisition at the date of acquisition, as
      adjusted for the final appraisal:

The
      trademarks are not subject to amortization. None of the goodwill is expected
      to
      be deductible for tax purposes.

The
      following table sets forth the unaudited pro forma

results
      of operations of the Company for the years ended February 28, 2005, and February
      29, 2004, respectively. The unaudited pro forma results of operations for the
      years ended February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, give effect to the Robert
      Mondavi acquisition as if it occurred on March 1, 2003. The unaudited pro forma
      results of operations for the year ended February 29, 2004, do not give effect
      to the Hardy Acquisition as if it occurred on March 1, 2003, as it is not
      significant. The unaudited pro forma results of operations are presented after
      giving effect to certain adjustments for depreciation, amortization of deferred
      financing costs, interest expense on the acquisition financing, interest expense
      associated with adverse grape contracts, and related income tax effects. The
      unaudited pro forma results of operations are based upon currently available
      information and certain assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable
      under the circumstances. The unaudited pro forma results of operations for
      the
      year ended February 29, 2004, do not reflect total pretax nonrecurring charges
      of $21.9 million ($0.07 per share on a diluted basis) related to transaction
      costs, primarily for the acceleration of vesting of stock options, legal fees
      and investment banker fees, all of which were incurred by Robert Mondavi prior
      to the acquisition. The unaudited pro forma results of operations do not purport
      to present what the Company’s results of operations would actually have been if
      the aforementioned transactions had in fact occurred on such date or at the
      beginning of the period indicated, nor do they project the Company’s financial
      position or results of operations at any future date or for any future
      period.


During
      the

year
      ended February 28, 2006, the Company completed its acquisition of two
      businesses, Rex Goliath and Cocktails by Jenn, for a total combined

purchased
      price of $48.2 million. Unaudited pro forma results of operations for the years
      ended February

28,
      2006, and February 28, 2005, to give pro forma effect to these acquisitions
      as
      if they occurred on March 1, 2004, are not shown as they are not
      significant.

4.

PROPERTY,
      PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:

The
      major
      components of property, plant and equipment are as follows:

5.

GOODWILL:

The
      changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended February 28,
      2006,
      are as follows:

The
      purchase accounting allocations of goodwill totaling $80.2 million consist
      primarily of final purchase accounting allocations associated with the Robert
      Mondavi acquisition and goodwill resulting from the acquisition of two
      businesses, Rex Goliath and Cocktails by Jenn. In addition, the purchase price
      for Cocktails by Jenn includes an earn-out for a peirod of up to ten years
      based
      on the performance of the brands. The results of operations of Rex Goliath
      are
      reported in the Constellation Wines segment and the results of operations of
      Cocktails by Jenn are reported in the Constellation Beers and Spirits segment,
      and have been included in the Consolidated Statements of Income since their
      respective acquisition dates.


6.

INTANGIBLE
        ASSETS:

The
        major
        components of intangible assets are:

The
        difference between the gross carrying amount and net carrying amount for
        each
        item presented is attributable to accumulated amortization. Amortization
        expense
        for intangible assets was $1.9 million, $2.8 million, and $2.6 million for
        the
        years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004,
        respectively. Estimated amortization expense for each of the five succeeding
        fiscal years and thereafter is as follows:

7.

OTHER
        ASSETS:

The
        major
        components of other assets are as follows:

In
        connection with the Hardy Acquisition and the Robert Mondavi acquisition,
        the
        Company acquired several investments which are being accounted for under
        the
        equity method. The primary investment consists of Opus One, a 50% owned joint
        venture arrangement (see Note 3). The percentage of ownership of the remaining
        investments ranges from 20% to 50%.


In
        addition, on December 3, 2004, the Company purchased a 40% interest in Ruffino
        S.r.l. (“Ruffino”), the well-known Italian fine wine company, for $89.6 million,
        including direct acquisition costs of $7.5 million. The Company does not
        have a
        controlling interest in Ruffino or exert any managerial control.

The
        Company accounts for the investment under the equity method; accordingly,
        the
        results of operations of Ruffino from December 3, 2004, are included in the
        equity in earnings of equity method investees line in the Company’s Consolidated
        Statements of Income.

As
        of
        February 1, 2005, the Company’s Constellation Wines segment began distribution
        of Ruffino’s products in the U.S. In connection with this arrangement, for the
        year ended February 28, 2006, the Company purchased from Ruffino $41.7 million
        of inventory with normal terms and conditions. Amounts purchased for the
        year
        ended February 28, 2005, were not material. As of February 28, 2006, amounts
        payable to Ruffino were not material.

During
        the year ended February 28, 2005, the Company sold its available-for-sale
        marketable equity security for cash proceeds of $14.4 million resulting in
        a
        gross realized loss of $0.7 million.

Amortization
        expense for other assets was included in selling, general and administrative
        expenses and was $6.2 million, $7.7 million, and $19.3 million for the years
        ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, respectively.
        Amortization expense for the year ended February 29, 2004, included $7.9
        million
        related to amortization of the deferred financing costs associated with the
        Company’s then existing bridge loan agreement. As of February 29, 2004, the
        deferred financing costs associated with the Company’s then existing bridge loan
        agreement were fully amortized.

8.

OTHER
        ACCRUED EXPENSES AND LIABILITIES:

The
        major
        components of other accrued expenses and liabilities are as
        follows:


9.

BORROWINGS:

Borrowings
        consist of the following:

Senior
        credit facility -

In
        connection with the acquisition of Robert Mondavi, on December 22, 2004,
        the
        Company and its U.S. subsidiaries (excluding certain inactive subsidiaries),
        together with certain of its subsidiaries organized in foreign jurisdictions,
        JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a lender and administrative agent, and certain
        other agents, lenders, and financial institutions entered into a new credit
        agreement (the “2004 Credit Agreement”). The 2004 Credit Agreement provides for
        aggregate credit facilities of $2.9 billion (subject to increase as therein
        provided to $3.2 billion), consisting of a $600.0 million tranche A term
        loan
        facility due in November 2010, a $1.8 billion tranche B term loan facility
        due
        in November 2011, and a $500.0 million revolving credit facility (including
        a
        sub-facility for letters of credit of up to $60.0 million) which terminates
        in
        December 2010. Proceeds of the 2004 Credit Agreement were used to pay off
        the
        Company’s obligations under its prior senior credit facility, to fund the cash
        consideration payable in connection with its acquisition of Robert Mondavi,
        and
        to pay certain obligations of Robert Mondavi, including indebtedness outstanding
        under its bank facility and unsecured notes of $355.4 million. The Company
        uses
        its revolving credit facility under the 2004 Credit Agreement for general
        corporate purposes, including working capital, on an as needed basis. In
        connection with entering into the 2004 Credit Agreement, the Company recorded
        a
        charge during the year ended February 28, 2005, of $21.4 million in selling,
        general and administrative expenses for the write-off of bank fees related
        to
        the repayment of the Company’s prior senior credit facility.

The
        tranche A term loan facility and the tranche B term loan facility were fully
        drawn on December 22, 2004. As of February 28, 2006, the required principal
        repayments of the tranche A term loan and the tranche B term loan for each
        of
        the five succeeding fiscal years and thereafter are as follows:


The
        rate
        of interest on borrowings under the 2004 Credit Agreement, at the Company’s
        option, is a function of LIBOR plus a margin, the federal funds rate plus
        a
        margin, or the prime rate plus a margin. The margin is adjustable based upon
        the
        Company’s debt ratio (as defined in the 2004 Credit Agreement) and, with respect
        to LIBOR borrowings, ranges between 1.00% and 1.75%. As of February 28, 2006,
        the LIBOR margin for the revolving credit facility and the tranche A term
        loan
        facility is 1.25%, while the LIBOR margin on the tranche B term loan facility
        is
        1.50%.

The
        Company’s obligations are guaranteed by its U.S. subsidiaries (excluding certain
        inactive subsidiaries) and by certain of its foreign subsidiaries. These
        obligations are also secured by a pledge of (i) 100% of the ownership interests
        in most of the Company’s U.S. subsidiaries and (ii) 65% of the voting capital
        stock of certain of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries.

The
        Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to customary lending covenants
        including those restricting additional liens, the incurrence of additional
        indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness), the sale of assets,
        the
        payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, the disposition and
        acquisition of property and the making of certain investments, in each case
        subject to numerous baskets, exceptions and thresholds. The financial covenants
        are limited to maximum total debt and senior debt coverage ratios and minimum
        fixed charges and interest coverage ratios. As of February 28, 2006, the
        Company
        is in compliance with all of its covenants under its 2004 Credit
        Agreement.

As
        of
        February 28, 2006, under the 2004 Credit Agreement, the Company had outstanding
        tranche A term loans of $355.0 million bearing a weighted average interest
        rate
        of 5.8%, tranche B term loans of $1,409.0 million bearing a weighted average
        interest rate of 5.9%, revolving loans of $54.5 million bearing a weighted
        average interest rate of 5.7%, undrawn revolving letters of credit of $35.1
        million, and $410.4 million in revolving loans available to be
        drawn.

In
        March
        2005, the Company replaced its then outstanding five year interest rate swap
        agreements with new five year delayed start interest rate swap agreements
        effective March 1, 2006, which are outstanding as of February 28, 2006. These
        delayed start interest rate swap agreements extended the original hedged
        period
        through fiscal 2010. The swap agreements fixed LIBOR interest rates on $1,200.0
        million of the Company’s floating LIBOR rate debt at an average rate of 4.1%
        over the five year term. The Company received $30.3 million in proceeds from
        the
        unwinding of the original swaps. This amount will be reclassified from
        Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”) ratably into earnings in the
        same period in which the original hedged item is recorded in the Consolidated
        Statements of Income. For the year ended February 28, 2006, the Company
        reclassified $3.6 million from AOCI to Interest Expense, net in the Company’s
        Consolidated Statements of Income. This non-cash operating activity is included
        in the Other, net line in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Cash
        Flows.

Foreign
        subsidiary facilities -

The
        Company has additional credit arrangements available totaling $188.9 million
        as
        of February 28, 2006. These arrangements support the financing needs of certain
        of the Company’s foreign subsidiary operations. Interest rates and other terms
        of these borrowings vary from country to country, depending on local market
        conditions. As of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, amounts outstanding
        under the subsidiary credit arrangements were $52.3 million and $34.0 million,
        respectively.

Senior
        notes

-

On
        August
        4, 1999, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of
        8 5/8%
        Senior Notes due August 2006 (the “August 1999 Senior Notes”). Interest on the
        August 1999 Senior Notes is payable semiannually on February 1 and August
        1. As
        of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $200.0 million aggregate
        principal amount of August 1999 Senior Notes.


On
        November 17, 1999, the Company issued £75.0 million ($121.7 million upon
        issuance) aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Senior Notes due November
        (the “Sterling Senior Notes”). Interest on the Sterling Senior Notes is payable
        semiannually on May 15 and November 15. In March 2000, the Company exchanged
        £75.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series B Senior Notes due
        in
        November 2009 (the “Sterling Series B Senior Notes”) for all of the Sterling
        Senior Notes. The terms of the Sterling Series B Senior Notes are identical
        in
        all material respects to the Sterling Senior Notes.

In
        October 2000, the Company exchanged £74.0 million aggregate principal amount of
        Sterling Series C Senior Notes (as defined below) for £74.0 million of the
        Sterling Series B Notes. The terms of the Sterling Series C Senior Notes
        are
        identical in all material respects to the Sterling Series B Senior Notes.
        As of
        February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding

£1.0
        million (

$1.8

million)

aggregate
        principal amount of Sterling Series B Senior Notes.

On
        May
        15, 2000, the Company issued £80.0 million ($120.0 million upon issuance)
        aggregate principal amount of 8 1/2% Series C Senior Notes due November 2009
        at
        an issuance price of £79.6 million ($119.4 million upon issuance, net of $0.6
        million unamortized discount, with an effective interest rate of 8.6%) (the
        “Sterling Series C Senior Notes”). Interest on the Sterling Series C Senior
        Notes is payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15. As of February 28,
        2006, the Company had outstanding £154.0 million ($269.7 million, net of $0.3
        million unamortized discount) aggregate principal amount of Sterling Series
        C
        Senior Notes.

On
        February 21, 2001, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal
        amount
        of 8% Senior Notes due February 2008 (the “February 2001 Senior Notes”).
        Interest on the February 2001 Senior Notes is payable semiannually on February
        15 and August 15.

In
        July
        2001, the Company exchanged $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of
        8%
        Series B Senior Notes due February 2008 (the “February 2001 Series B Senior
        Notes”) for all of the February 2001 Senior Notes. The terms of the February
        2001 Series B Senior Notes are identical in all material respects to the
        February 2001 Senior Notes. As of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding
        $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of February 2001 Series B Senior
        Notes.

The
        senior notes described above are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the
        option
        of the Company at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the
        outstanding principal amount and a make whole payment based on the present
        value
        of the future payments at the adjusted Treasury rate or adjusted Gilt rate
        plus
        50 basis points. The senior notes are unsecured senior obligations and rank
        equally in right of payment to all existing and future unsecured senior
        indebtedness of the Company. Certain of the Company’s significant operating
        subsidiaries guarantee the senior notes, on a senior basis.

Senior
        subordinated notes

-

On
        March
        4, 1999, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of
        8 1/2%
        Senior Subordinated Notes due March 2009 (“Senior Subordinated Notes”). On March
        11, 2004, the Senior Subordinated Notes were redeemed with proceeds from
        the
        revolving credit facility under the Company’s then existing senior credit
        facility at 104.25% of par plus accrued interest. During the year ended February
        28, 2005, in connection with this redemption, the Company recorded a charge
        of
        $10.3 million in selling, general and administrative expenses for the call
        premium and the remaining unamortized financing fees associated with the
        original issuance of the Senior Subordinated Notes.


On
        January 23, 2002, the Company issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount
        of 8 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due January 2012 (“January 2002 Senior
        Subordinated Notes”). Interest on the January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes is
        payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15. The January 2002 Senior
        Subordinated Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole
        or in
        part, at any time on or after January 15, 2007. The January 2002 Senior
        Subordinated Notes are unsecured and subordinated to the prior payment in
        full
        of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which includes the senior credit
        facility. The January 2002 Senior Subordinated Notes are guaranteed, on a
        senior
        subordinated basis, by certain of the Company’s significant operating
        subsidiaries. As of February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $250.0
        million aggregate principal amount of January 2002 Senior Subordinated
        Notes.

Trust
        Indentures

-

The
        Company’s various Trust Indentures relating to the senior notes and senior
        subordinated notes contain certain covenants, including, but not limited
        to: (i)
        limitation on indebtedness; (ii) limitation on restricted payments; (iii)
        limitation on transactions with affiliates; (iv) limitation on senior
        subordinated indebtedness; (v) limitation on liens; (vi) limitation on sale
        of
        assets; (vii) limitation on issuance of guarantees of and pledges for
        indebtedness; (viii) restriction on transfer of assets; (ix) limitation on
        subsidiary capital stock; (x) limitation on dividends and other payment
        restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and (xi) restrictions on mergers,
        consolidations and the transfer of all or substantially all of the assets
        of the
        Company to another person. The limitation on indebtedness covenant is governed
        by a rolling four quarter fixed charge ratio requiring a specified
        minimum.

Debt
        payments

-

Principal
        payments required under long-term debt obligations (excluding unamortized
        discount of

$0.3

million)
        during the next five fiscal years and thereafter are as follows:

10.

INCOME
        TAXES:

Income
        before income taxes was generated as follows:


The
          income tax provision consisted of the following:

The
        foreign provision for income taxes is based on foreign pretax earnings. Earnings
        of foreign subsidiaries would be subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation
        to the U.S. The Company’s consolidated financial statements provide for
        anticipated tax liabilities on amounts that may be repatriated.

Deferred
        tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects of temporary
        differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts
        of
        existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured
        using enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income.

Significant
        components of deferred tax assets (liabilities) consist of the
        following:


In
        assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers
        whether
        it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will
        not
        be realized. Management considers the reversal of deferred tax liabilities
        and
        projected future taxable income in making this assessment. Based upon this
        assessment, management believes it is more likely than not that the Company
        will
        realize the benefits of these deductible differences, net of any valuation
        allowances.

Operating
        loss carryforwards totaling $112.3 million at February 28, 2006, are being
        carried forward in a number of U.S. and foreign jurisdictions where the Company
        is permitted to use tax operating losses from prior periods to reduce future
        taxable income. Of these operating loss carryforwards, $2.3 million will
        expire
        in 2024 and $110.0 million

of
        operating losses in foreign jurisdictions

may be
        carried forward indefinitely. In addition, certain tax credits generated
        of $7.2
        million are available to offset future income taxes. These credits will expire,
        if not utilized, in 2014 through 2015.

On
        October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (“AJCA”) was signed into law.
        The AJCA includes a special one-time 85% dividends received deduction for
        certain foreign earnings that are repatriated. For the year ended February
        28,
        2006, the Company repatriated $95.7 million of earnings under the provisions
        of
        the AJCA. Deferred taxes had previously been provided for a portion of the
        dividends remitted. The reversal of deferred taxes offset the tax costs to
        repatriate the earnings and the Company recorded a net benefit of $6.8 million.

The
        AJCA
        also provides relief to U.S. domestic manufacturers by providing a tax deduction
        related to “qualified production income,” which will be phased in over five
        years. In accordance with FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109-1 (“FSP FAS 109-1”),
“Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, for the
        Tax
        Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs
        Creation Act of 2004,” the Company will recognize these benefits in the period
        in which the deduction is claimed. The tax benefit for the year ended February
        28, 2006, was $2.0 million.

The
        Company is subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various
        jurisdictions. Accordingly, the Company provides for additional tax expense
        based on probable outcomes of such matters. While it is often difficult to
        predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax
        matter, the Company believes the reserves reflect the probable outcome of
        known
        tax contingencies. Unfavorable settlement of any particular issue would require
        use of cash. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to the
        effective tax rate in the year of resolution. During the year ended February
        28,
        2006, various federal, state, and international examinations were finalized.
        A
        tax benefit of $16.2 million was recorded primarily related to the resolution
        of
        certain tax positions in connection with those examinations.


A
        reconciliation of the total tax provision to the amount computed by applying
        the
        statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate to income before provision for income
        taxes is as follows:

The
        effect of earnings of foreign subsidiaries includes the difference between
        the
        U.S. statutory rate and local jurisdiction tax rates, as well as the

(benefit)

provision for incremental U.S. taxes on unremitted earnings of foreign
        subsidiaries offset by foreign tax credits and other foreign
        adjustments.

11.

OTHER
        LIABILITIES:

The
        major
        components of other liabilities are as follows:

12.

PROFIT
        SHARING AND RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLANS:

The
        Company’s retirement and profit sharing plan, the Constellation Brands, Inc.
        401(k) and Profit Sharing Plan (the “Plan”), covers substantially all U.S.
        employees, excluding those employees covered by collective bargaining
        agreements. The 401(k) portion of the Plan permits eligible employees to
        defer a
        portion of their compensation (as defined in the Plan) on a pretax basis.
        Participants may defer up to 50% of their compensation for the year, subject
        to
        limitations of the Plan. The Company makes a matching contribution of 50%
        of the
        first 6% of compensation a participant defers. The amount of the Company’s
        contribution under the profit sharing portion of the Plan is a discretionary
        amount as determined by the Board of

Directors
        on an annual basis, subject to limitations of the Plan. Company contributions
        under the Plan were $15.9 million, $13.0 million, and $11.6 million for the
        years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February

29,
        2004, respectively.


During
        the year ended February 29, 2004, in connection with the Hardy Acquisition,
        the
        Company acquired the BRL Hardy Superannuation Fund (now known as the Hardy
        Wine
        Company Superannuation Plan) (the “Hardy Plan”) which covers substantially all
        salaried Australian employees. The Hardy Plan has a defined benefit component
        and a defined contribution component. The Company also has a statutory
        obligation to provide a minimum defined contribution on behalf of any Australian
        employees who are not covered by the Hardy Plan. In addition, during the
        year
        ended February 29, 2004, the Company instituted a defined contribution plan
        that
        covers substantially all of its U.K. employees. Lastly, the Company has a
        defined contribution plan that covers certain of its Canadian employees.
        Company
        contributions under the defined contribution component of the Hardy Plan,
        the
        Australian statutory obligation, the U.K. defined contribution plan and the
        Canadian defined contribution plan aggregated

$8.2
        million, $7.0

million,

and
        $7.2
        million for the

years
        ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004,
        respectively.

The
        Company also has defined benefit pension plan

s
        that
        cover certain of its non-U.S. employees. These consist of a Canadian plan,
        an
        U.K. plan and the defined benefit component of the Hardy Plan. For the year
        ended February 28, 2006, the Company’s net periodic benefit cost includes $6.4
        million of recognized net actuarial loss due to an adjustment in the Company’s
        U.K. plan. Of this amount, $2.7 million represents current year expense.
        During
        the year ended February 28, 2005, an amendment to the Canadian plan modifying
        pension benefits increased the pension benefit obligation by $0.9 million.

During
        the year ended February 29, 2004, the Company ceased future accruals for
        active
        employees under its U.K. plan. There were no curtailment charges arising
        from
        this event. The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for all of its
        plans. Net periodic benefit cost reported in the Consolidated Statements
        of
        Income for these plans includes the following components:

The
        following table summarizes the funded status of the Company’s defined benefit
        pension plans and the related amounts included in the Consolidated Balance
        Sheets:


As
        of
        February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the accumulated benefit obligation
        for
        all defined benefit pension plans was $379.7 million and $337.9 million,
        respectively. The following table summarizes the projected benefit obligation,
        accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for those pension
        plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan
        assets:

The
        increase in minimum pension liability included in AOCI for the years ended
        February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, was $18.9 million

and
        $21.2
        million, respectively.

The
        following table sets forth the weighted average assumptions used in developing
        the net periodic pension expense:


The
        following table sets forth the weighted average assumptions used in developing
        the benefit obligation:

February
                  28,


February
                  28,


Discount
                  rate

4.72%

5.41%

Rate
                  of compensation increase

3.95%

3.76%

The
        Company’s weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is
        7.09%. The Company considers the historical level of long-term returns and
        the
        current level of expected long-term returns for each asset class, as well
        as the
        current and expected allocation of assets when developing its expected long-term
        rate of return on assets assumption. The expected return for each asset class
        is
        weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long-term
        rate of return on assets assumption for the Company’s portfolios.

The
        following table sets forth the weighted average asset allocations by asset
        category:

For
        each
        of its Canadian, U.K. and Australian defined benefit plans, the Company employs
        an investment return approach whereby a mix of equities and fixed income
        investments are used (on a plan by plan basis) to maximize the long-term
        rate of
        return on plan assets for a prudent level of risk. From time to time, the
        Company will target asset allocation on a plan by plan basis to enhance total
        return while balancing risks. The established weighted average target
        allocations across all of the Company’s plans are approximately 37% equity
        securities, 20% fixed income securities, 4% real estate and 39% other. The
        other
        component results primarily from investments held by the Company’s U.K. plan and
        consists primarily of U.K. hedge funds which have characteristics of both
        equity
        and fixed income securities. Risk tolerance is established
        separately

for each
        plan through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status,
        and
        corporate financial condition. The individual investment portfolios contain
        a
        diversified blend of equity and fixed-income investments. Equity investments
        are
        diversified across each plan’s local jurisdiction stocks as well as
        international stocks, and across multiple asset classifications, including
        growth, value, and large and small capitalizations. Investment risk is measured
        and monitored for each plan separately on an ongoing basis through periodic
        investment portfolio reviews and annual liability measures.

The
        Company expects to contribute $11.5 million to its pension plans during the
        year
        ended February 28, 2007.

Benefit
        payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, expected
        to be
        paid during the next ten fiscal years are as follows:


13.

POSTRETIREMENT
      BENEFITS:

The
      Company currently sponsors multiple unfunded postretirement benefit plans for
      certain of its Constellation Beers and Spirits segment employees

.

During
      the year ended February 28, 2005, amendments to two of the unfunded
      postretirement benefit plans, one modifying retiree contributions and the other
      modifying eligibility requirements and retiree contributions, decreased the
      postretirement benefit obligation by $0.4 million. During the year ended
      February 29, 2004, an amendment to one of the unfunded postretirement benefit
      plans modifying the eligibility requirements and retiree contributions decreased
      the postretirement benefit obligation by $0.6 million.

The
      Company uses a December 31 measurement date for all of its plans. The status
      of
      the plans is as follows:

Net
      periodic benefit cost reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income includes
      the following components:

The
      following table sets forth the weighted average assumptions used in developing
      the benefit obligation:

February
                28,


February
                28,


Discount
                rate

4.97%

5.86%

Rate
                of compensation increase

3.50%

3.50%


The
      following table sets forth the weighted average assumptions used in developing
      the net periodic non-pension postretirement:

The
      following table sets forth the assumed health care cost trend rates as of
      February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005:

Assumed
      health care trend rates could have a significant effect on the amount reported
      for health care plans. A one percent change in assumed health care cost trend
      rates would have the following effects:

Benefit
      payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, expected to
      be
      paid during the next ten fiscal years are as follows:

14.

COMMITMENTS
      AND CONTINGENCIES:

Operating
      leases -

Step
      rent
      provisions, escalation clauses, capital improvement funding and other lease
      concessions, when present in the Company’s leases, are taken into account in
      computing the minimum lease payments. The minimum lease payments for the
      Company’s operating leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the
      minimum lease term. Future payments under noncancelable operating leases having
      initial or remaining terms of one year or more are as follows during the next
      five fiscal years and thereafter:


Rental
      expense

was
      $69.5
      million, $47.4 million, and $41.0 million for the years ended February 28,
      2006,
      February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, respectively.

Purchase
      commitments and contingencies -

The
      Company has agreements with suppliers to purchase various spirits of which
      certain agreements are denominated in British pound sterling. The maximum future
      obligation under these agreements, based upon exchange rates at February 28,
      2006, aggregate $26.1 million for contracts expiring through

December

.

All
      of
      the Company’s imported beer products are marketed and sold pursuant to exclusive
      distribution agreements from the suppliers of these products. The Company’s
      agreement to distribute Corona Extra and its other Mexican beer brands
      exclusively throughout 25 primarily western U.S. states expires in December
      2006, with automatic five year renewals thereafter, subject to compliance with
      certain performance criteria and other terms under the agreement. The remaining
      agreements expire through December 2011. Prior to their expiration, these
      agreements may be terminated if the Company fails to meet certain performance
      criteria. At February 28, 2006, the Company believes it is in compliance with
      all of its material distribution agreements and, given the Company’s long-term
      relationships with its suppliers, the Company does not believe that these
      agreements will be terminated.

In
      connection with previous acquisitions as well as with the Hardy Acquisition
      and
      Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company has assumed grape purchase contracts
      with certain growers and suppliers. In addition, the Company has entered into
      other grape purchase contracts with various growers and suppliers in the normal
      course of business. Under the grape purchase contracts, the Company is committed
      to purchase all grape production yielded from a specified number of acres for
      a
      period of time from

one
      to
      sixteen

years.
      The actual tonnage and price of grapes that must be purchased by the Company
      will vary each year depending on certain factors, including weather, time of
      harvest, overall market conditions and the agricultural practices and location
      of the growers and suppliers under contract. The Company purchased $491.8
      million and $368.4 million of grapes under contracts during the years ended
      February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, respectively. Based on current
      production yields and published grape prices, the Company estimates that the
      aggregate purchases under these contracts over the remaining terms of the
      contracts will be $1,920.9 million.

In
      connection with previous acquisitions as well as with the Hardy Acquisition
      and
      Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company established a liability for the
      estimated loss on firm purchase commitments assumed at the time of acquisition.
      As of February 28, 2006, the remaining balance on this liability is $123.6
      million.

The
      Company’s aggregate obligations under bulk wine purchase contracts will be $82.5
      million over the remaining terms of the contracts which extend through

fiscal
      2014.

In
      connection with the Hardy Acquisition, the Company assumed certain processing
      contracts which commit the Company to utilize outside services to process and/or
      package a minimum volume quantity. In addition, the Company entered into a
      new
      processing contract during the year ended February 29, 2004, utilizing outside
      services to process a minimum volume of brandy at prices which are dependent
      on
      the processing ingredients provided by the Company. The Company’s aggregate
      obligations under these processing contracts will be $76.3 million over the
      remaining terms of the contracts which extend through December
      2014.


Employment
      contracts -

The
      Company has employment contracts with certain of its executive officers and
      certain other management personnel with either automatic one year renewals
      or an
      indefinite term of employment unless terminated by either party. These
      employment contracts provide for minimum salaries, as adjusted for annual
      increases, and may include incentive bonuses based upon attainment of specified
      management goals. These employment contracts also provide for severance payments
      in the event of specified termination of employment. In addition, the Company
      has employment arrangements with certain other management personnel which
      provide for severance payments in the event of specified termination of
      employment. As of February 28, 2006, the aggregate commitment for future
      compensation and severance, excluding incentive bonuses, was $8.2 million,
      none
      of which was accruable at that date.

Employees
      covered by collective bargaining agreements -

Approximately
      27.5% of the Company’s full-time employees are covered by collective bargaining
      agreements at February 28, 2006. Agreements expiring within one year cover
      approximately 17.5% of the Company’s full-time employees.

Legal
      matters -

In
      the
      course of its business, the Company is subject to litigation from time to time.
      Although the amount of any liability with respect to such litigation cannot
      be
      determined, in the opinion of management, such liability will not have a
      material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
      operations or cash flows.

15.

STOCKHOLDERS’
      EQUITY:

Common
      stock -

The
      Company has two classes of common stock: Class A Common Stock and Class B
      Convertible Common Stock. Class B Convertible Common Stock shares are
      convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock on a one-to-one basis at any
      time at the option of the holder. Holders of Class B Convertible Common Stock
      are entitled to ten votes per share. Holders of Class A Common Stock are
      entitled to one vote per share and a cash dividend premium. If the Company
      pays
      a cash dividend on Class B Convertible Common Stock, each share of Class A
      Common Stock will receive an amount at least ten percent greater than the amount
      of the cash dividend per share paid on Class B Convertible Common Stock. In
      addition, the Board of Directors may declare and pay a dividend on Class A
      Common Stock without paying any dividend on Class B Convertible Common Stock.
      However, under the terms of the Company’s senior credit facility, the Company is
      currently constrained from paying cash dividends on its common stock. In
      addition, the indentures for the Company’s outstanding senior notes and senior
      subordinated notes may restrict the payment of cash dividends on its common
      stock under certain circumstances.

In
      July
      2005, the stockholders of the Company approved an increase in the number of
      authorized shares of Class A Common Stock from 275,000,000 shares to 300,000,000
      shares, thereby increasing the aggregate number of authorized shares of the
      Company’s common and preferred stock to 331,000,000 shares.

At
      February 28, 2006, there were 199,177,164 shares of Class A Common Stock and
      23,857,338 shares of Class B Convertible Common Stock outstanding, net of
      treasury stock.

Common
      stock splits -

During
      May 2005, two-for-one stock splits of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and
      Class B Convertible Common Stock were distributed in the form of stock dividends
      to stockholders of record on April 29, 2005. All share and per share amounts
      have been retroactively restated to give effect to the common stock
      splits.


Stock
      repurchase authorization -

In
      February 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors replenished the June 1998
      authorization to repurchase up to $100.0 million of the Company’s Class A Common
      Stock and Class B Convertible Common Stock.

The
      Company may finance such purchases, which will become treasury shares, through
      cash generated from operations or through the senior credit facility. No

shares
      were repurchased under this program during the years ended February 28, 2006,
      February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004.

Preferred
      stock -

During
      the year ended February 29, 2004, the Company issued 5.75% Series A Mandatory
      Convertible Preferred Stock (“Preferred Stock”) (see “Equity Offerings”
discussion below). Dividends are cumulative and payable quarterly, if declared,
      in cash, shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, or a combination thereof,
      at the discretion of the Company. Dividends are payable, if declared, on the
      first business day of March, June, September, and December of each year,
      commencing on December 1, 2003. On September 1, 2006, the automatic conversion
      date, each share of Preferred Stock will automatically convert into, subject
      to
      certain anti-dilution adjustments, between 58.552 and 71.432 shares of the
      Company’s Class A Common Stock, depending on the then applicable market price of
      the Company’s Class A Common Stock, in accordance with the following
      table:

The
      applicable market price is the average of the closing prices per share of the
      Company’s Class A Common Stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days ending
      on the third trading day immediately preceding the applicable conversion date.
      At any time prior to September 1, 2006, holders may elect to convert each share
      of Preferred Stock, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments, into 58.552
      shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. If the closing market price of the
      Company’s Class A Common Stock exceeds $25.62 for at least 20 trading days
      within a period of 30 consecutive trading days, the Company may elect, subject
      to certain limitations and anti-dilution adjustments, to cause the conversion
      of
      all, but not less than all, of the then outstanding shares of Preferred Stock
      into shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock at a conversion rate of 58.552
      shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. In order for the Company to cause
      the early conversion of the Preferred Stock, the Company must pay all accrued
      and unpaid dividends on the Preferred Stock as well as the present value of
      all
      remaining dividend payments through and including September 1, 2006. If the
      Company is involved in a merger in which at least 30% of the consideration
      for
      all or any class of the Company’s common stock consists of cash or cash
      equivalents, then on or after the date of such merger, each holder will have
      the
      right to convert each share of Preferred Stock into the number of shares of
      the
      Company’s Class A Common Stock applicable on the automatic conversion date. The
      Preferred Stock ranks senior in right of payment to all of the Company’s common
      stock and has a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, plus accrued and
      unpaid dividends.

As
      of
      February 28, 2006, 170,500 shares of Preferred Stock were outstanding and $2.5
      million of dividends were accrued.


Equity
      offerings -

During
      July 2003, the Company completed a public offering of 19,600,000 shares of
      its
      Class A Common Stock resulting in net proceeds to the Company, after deducting
      underwriting discounts and expenses, of $261.2 million. In addition, the Company
      also completed a public offering of 170,500 shares of its 5.75% Series A
      Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock resulting in net proceeds to the Company,
      after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $164.9 million. The
      Class A Common Stock offering and the Preferred Stock offering are referred
      to
      together as the “2003 Equity Offerings.” The majority of the net proceeds from
      the 2003 Equity Offerings were used to repay the Company’s then existing bridge
      loans that were incurred to partially finance the Hardy Acquisition. The
      remaining proceeds were used to repay term loan borrowings under the Company’s
      then existing senior credit facility.

Long-term
      stock incentive plan -

Under
      the
      Company’s Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, nonqualified stock options, stock
      appreciation rights, restricted stock and other stock-based awards may be
      granted to employees, officers and directors of the Company. The aggregate
      number of shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock available for awards
      under the Company’s Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan is 80,000,000 shares. The
      exercise price, vesting period and term of nonqualified stock options granted
      are established by the committee administering the plan (the “Committee”). The
      exercise price of any nonqualified stock option may not be less than the fair
      market value of the Company’s Class A Common Stock on the date of grant. Grants
      of stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and other stock-based awards
      may
      contain such vesting, terms, conditions and other requirements as the Committee
      may establish.

During
      the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004,
      no
      stock appreciation rights were granted. During the year ended February 28,
      2006,
      7,150 shares of restricted Class A Common Stock were granted at a grant date
      fair value of $27.96 per share. During the year ended February 28, 2005, 5,330
      shares of restricted Class A Common Stock were granted at a grant date fair
      value of $18.86 per share. No restricted stock was granted during the year
      ended
      February 29, 2004.

Incentive
      stock option plan

-

Under
      the
      Company’s Incentive Stock Option Plan, incentive stock options may be granted to
      employees, including officers, of the Company. Grants, in the aggregate, may
      not
      exceed 8,000,000 shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. The exercise
      price of any incentive stock option may not be less than the fair market value
      of the Company’s Class A Common Stock on the date of grant. The vesting period
      and term of incentive stock options granted are established by the Committee.
      The maximum term of incentive stock options is ten years.


A
      summary
      of stock option activity under the Company’s Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan and
      the Incentive Stock Option Plan is as follows:

The
      following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
      February 28, 2006:

The
      weighted average fair value of options granted during the years ended February
      28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, was $9.55

,
      $7.20,
      and $4.87, respectively. The fair value of options is estimated on the date
      of
      grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted
      average assumptions: risk-free interest rate of 4.1%, 3.6%, and 3.2% for the
      years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004,
      respectively; volatility of 31.3%, 33.6%, and 35.7% for the years ended February
      28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, respectively; and expected
      option life of 5.0 years, 6.0 years, and

6.2
      years
      for the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29,
      2004,
      respectively. The dividend yield was 0% for the years ended February 28, 2006,
      February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004. Forfeitures are recognized as they
      occur.

Employee
      stock purchase plans

-

The
      Company has a stock purchase plan under which 9,000,000 shares of Class A Common
      Stock may be issued. Under the terms of the plan, eligible employees may
      purchase shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock through payroll
      deductions. The purchase price is the lower of 85% of the fair market value
      of
      the stock on the first or last day of the purchase period. During the years
      ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, employees
      purchased 249,507, 274,106, and 275,970 shares, respectively.


The
      weighted average fair value of purchase rights granted during the years ended
      February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, was $6.23, $4.98,
      and $3.30, respectively. The fair value of purchase rights is estimated on
      the
      date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
      weighted average assumptions: risk-free interest rate of 4.2%, 2.2%, and 1.0%
      for the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29,
      2004,
      respectively; volatility of 27.2%, 24.5%, and 22.3% for the years ended February
      28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004, respectively; and expected
      purchase right life of 0.5 years for the years ended February 28, 2006, February
      28, 2005, and February 29, 2004. The dividend yield was 0% for the years ended
      February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February 29, 2004.

The
      Company has a stock purchase plan under which 2,000,000 shares of the Company’s
      Class A Common Stock may be issued to eligible employees and directors of the
      Company’s U.K. subsidiaries. Under the terms of the plan, participants may
      purchase shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock through payroll
      deductions. The purchase price may be no less than 80% of the closing price
      of
      the stock on the day the purchase price is fixed by the committee administering
      the plan. During the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and
      February 29, 2004, employees purchased 92,622, 74,164, and 55,582 shares,
      respectively. During the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005,
      and
      February 29, 2004, there were no purchase rights granted.

16.

EARNINGS
      PER COMMON SHARE:

Earnings
      per common share are as follows:

Stock
      options to purchase 3.6 million, 1.6 million, and 0.2 million shares of Class
      A
      Common Stock at a weighted average price per share of $27.30, $23.27, and $15.55
      were outstanding during the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005,
      and February 29, 2004, respectively, but were not included in the computation
      of
      the diluted earnings per common share because the stock options’ exercise price
      was greater than the average market price of the Class A Common Stock for the
      respective periods.


17.

ACCUMULATED
      OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS):

Accumulated
      other comprehensive loss, net of tax effects, includes the following
      components:

During
      the year ended February 28, 2006, the Company changed the structure of certain
      of its cash flow hedges of forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions.
      As a result, the Company received $18.5 million in proceeds from the early
      termination of related foreign currency derivative instruments. As the
      forecasted transactions are still probable, this amount was recorded to AOCI
      and
      will be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the same periods in which the
      original hedged items are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
      See
      Note 9 for discussion of $30.3 million cash proceeds received from the early
      termination of interest rate swap agreements in March 2005.

18.

SIGNIFICANT
      CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK:

Sales
      to
      the five largest customers represented 18.5%, 21.5%, and 20.6% of the Company’s
      sales for the years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005, and February
      29,
      2004, respectively. No single customer was responsible for greater than 10%
      of
      sales during these years. Accounts receivable from the Company’s largest
      customer, Southern Wine and Spirits, represented 8.6%, 10.2%, and 8.3% of the
      Company’s total accounts receivable as of February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005,
      and February 29, 2004, respectively. Sales to the Company’s five largest
      customers are expected to continue to represent a significant portion of the
      Company’s revenues. The Company’s arrangements with certain of its customers
      may, generally, be terminated by either party with prior notice. The Company
      performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial position, and
      management of the Company is of the opinion that any risk of significant loss
      is
      reduced due to the diversity of customers and geographic sales
      area.

19.

ACQUISITION-RELATED
      INTEGRATION COSTS:

For
      the
      year ended February 28, 2006, the Company recorded $16.8 million of
      acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Company’s decision to
      restructure and integrate the operations of Robert Mondavi (the “Robert Mondavi
      Plan”). Acquisition-related integration costs included $5.3 million of
      employee-related costs and $11.5 million of facilities and other one-time costs.
      For the year ended February 28, 2005, the Company recorded $9.4 million of
      acquisition-related integration costs associated with the Robert Mondavi
      Plan.


20.

RESTRUCTURING
      AND RELATED CHARGES:

For
      the
      year ended February 28, 2006, the Company recorded $29.3 million of
      restructuring and related charges associated with (i) the further realignment
      of
      business operations as previously announced in Fiscal 2004, a component of
      the
      Fiscal 2004 Plan (as defined below), (ii) the Robert Mondavi Plan, and (iii)
      costs associated with the worldwide wine reorganization announced in February
      2006 (including certain personnel reductions in the U.K. during the third
      quarter of fiscal 2006) and the Company’s program to consolidate certain west
      coast production processes in the U.S. (collectively, the “Fiscal 2006 Plan”).
      Included in the $29.3 million of restructuring and related charges incurred
      for
      the year ended February 28, 2006, is $6.9 million of non-cash charges for
      stock-based compensation (which are excluded from the table below).

For
      the
      year ended February 28, 2006, restructuring and related charges recorded in
      connection with the Fiscal 2004 Plan included $0.7 million of employee
      termination benefit costs and $1.3 million of facility consolidation and
      relocation costs. Restructuring and related charges recorded in connection
      with
      the Robert Mondavi Plan included $1.6 million of employee termination benefit
      costs, $0.7 million of contract termination costs and $0.5 million of facility
      consolidation and relocation costs. Restructuring and related charges recorded
      in connection with the Fiscal 2006 Plan included $24.3 million of employee
      termination benefit costs and $0.2 million of facility consolidation and
      relocation costs. In addition, in connection with the Fiscal 2006 Plan, the
      Company recorded (i) $13.4 million of accelerated depreciation charges in
      connection with the Company’s investment in new assets and reconfiguration of
      certain existing assets under the plan, which was recorded in cost of product
      sold, and (ii) $0.1 million of other related costs which was recorded in
      selling, general and administrative expenses. For the year ended February 28,
      2005, the Company recorded $7.6 million of restructuring and related charges
      associated with (i) the further realignment of business operations as previously
      announced in Fiscal 2004, (ii) the Company’s decision in Fiscal 2004 to exit the
      commodity concentrate product line in the U.S. (collectively, the “Fiscal 2004
      Plan”), and the Robert Mondavi Plan. For the year ended February 29, 2004, the
      Company recorded $31.1 million of restructuring and related charges associated
      with the Fiscal 2004 Plan. In addition, in connection with the Company’s
      decision to exit the commodity concentrate product line in the U.S., the Company
      recorded a write-down of concentrate inventory of $16.8 million for the year
      ended February 29, 2004, which was recorded in cost of product
      sold.

The
      Company estimates that the Fiscal 2004 Plan will include (i) a total of $10.2
      million of employee termination benefit costs through February 28, 2007, of
      which $10.2 million has been incurred through February 28, 2006, (ii) a total
      of
      $19.2 million of contract termination costs through February 28, 2007, of which
      $19.2 million has been incurred through February 28, 2006, and (iii) a total
      of
      $4.6 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs through February
      28,
      2007, of which $4.2 million has been incurred through February 28,
      2006.

The
      Company estimates that the Robert Mondavi Plan will include (i) a total of
      $2.6
      million of employee termination benefit costs through February 28, 2007, of
      which $2.6 million has been incurred through February 28, 2006, (ii) a total
      of
      $1.1 million of contract termination costs through February 28, 2007, of which
      $0.7 million has been incurred through February 28, 2006, and (iii) a total
      of
      $0.5 million of facility consolidation and relocation costs through February
      28,
      2007, of which $0.5 million has been incurred through February 28,
      2006.


The
      Company estimates that the Fiscal 2006 Plan will include (i) a total of $32.0
      million of employee termination benefit costs through February 28, 2007, of
      which $24.3 million has been incurred through February 28, 2006, (ii) a total
      of
      $3.0 million of contract termination costs through February 28, 2007, none
      of
      which has been incurred through February 28, 2006, and (iii) a total of $13.5
      million of facility consolidation and relocation costs through February 28,
      2007, of which $0.2 million has been incurred through February 28, 2006. In
      addition, the Company expects to incur accelerated depreciation charges of
      $20.4
      million through February 28, 2007, of which $13.4 million has been incurred
      through February 28, 2006. Amounts associated with the accelerated depreciation
      charges are recorded in cost of product sold in the Company’s Consolidated
      Statements of Income. Lastly, the Company expects to incur other related costs
      of $8.4 million through February 28, 2007, of which $0.1 million has been
      incurred through February 28, 2006. Amounts associated with the other related
      costs will be recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the
      Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.

In
      connection with the Robert Mondavi acquisition, the Company accrued $50.5
      million of

liabilities
      for exit costs as of the acquisition date. The Robert Mondavi acquisition line
      item in the table below reflects adjustments to the fair value of liabilities
      assumed in the acquisition. The balance of these purchase accounting accruals
      was $8.1 million and $37.6 million as of February 28, 2006, and February 28,
      2005, respectively.

The
      following table illustrates the changes in the restructuring liability balance
      since February 28, 2005:

21.

CONDENSED
        CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL INFORMATION:

The
        following information sets forth the condensed consolidating balance sheets
        as
        of February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005, the condensed consolidating
        statements of income and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
        ended February 28, 2006, for the Company, the parent company, the combined
        subsidiaries of the Company which guarantee the Company’s senior notes and
        senior subordinated notes (“Subsidiary Guarantors”) and the combined
        subsidiaries of the Company which are not Subsidiary Guarantors, primarily
        Matthew Clark and Hardy and their subsidiaries,

which
        are
        included in the Constellation Wines segment (“Subsidiary Nonguarantors”). The
        Subsidiary Guarantors are wholly owned and the guarantees are full,
        unconditional, joint and several obligations of each of the Subsidiary
        Guarantors. Separate financial statements for the Subsidiary Guarantors of
        the
        Company are not presented because the Company has determined that such financial
        statements would not be material to investors. The accounting policies of
        the
        parent company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Subsidiary Nonguarantors
        are
        the same as those described for the Company in the Summary of Significant
        Accounting Policies in Note 1 and include the recently adopted accounting
        pronouncements described in Note 2. There are no restrictions on the ability
        of
        the Subsidiary Guarantors to transfer funds to the Company in the form of
        cash
        dividends, loans or advances.








22.

BUSINESS
        SEGMENT INFORMATION:

The
        Company reports its operating results in three segments: Constellation Wines
        (branded wine, and U.K. wholesale and other), Constellation Beers and Spirits
        (imported beers and distilled spirits) and Corporate Operations and Other.
        Amounts included in the Corporate Operations and Other segment consist of
        general corporate administration and finance expenses. These amounts include
        costs of executive management, corporate development, corporate finance,
        human
        resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, global
        information technology and global strategic sourcing. Any costs incurred
        at the
        corporate office that are applicable to the segments are allocated to the
        appropriate segment. The amounts included in the Corporate Operations and
        Other
        segment are general costs that are applicable to the consolidated group and
        are
        therefore not allocated to the other reportable segments. All costs reported
        within the Corporate Operations and Other segment are not included in the
        chief
        operating decision maker’s evaluation of the operating income performance of the
        other operating segments.

The
        business segments reflect how the Company’s operations are being managed, how
        operating performance within the Company is being evaluated by senior management
        and the structure of its internal financial reporting. In addition, the Company
        excludes acquisition-related integration costs, restructuring and related
        charges and unusual items that affect comparability from its definition of
        operating income for segment purposes.


For
        the
        year ended February 28, 2006, acquisition-related integration costs,
        restructuring and related charges and unusual costs consist of restructuring
        and
        related charges associated primarily with the Fiscal 2006 Plan and the Robert
        Mondavi Plan of $29.3 million; the flow through of adverse grape cost (as
        described below) and acquisition-related integration costs associated primarily
        with the Robert Mondavi acquisition of $23.0 million and $16.8 million,
        respectively; accelerated depreciation costs in connection with the Fiscal
        Plan of $13.4 million; the flow through of inventory step-up of $7.9 million
        associated primarily with the Robert Mondavi acquisition; the write-off of
        due
        diligence costs associated with the Company’s evaluation of a potential offer
        for Allied Domecq of $3.4 million; and other costs associated with the Fiscal
        2006 Plan of $0.1 million. Adverse grape cost represents the amount of
        historical inventory cost on Robert Mondavi’s balance sheet that exceeds the
        Company’s estimated ongoing grape cost and is primarily due to the purchase of
        grapes by Robert Mondavi prior to the acquisition date at above-market prices
        as
        required under the terms of their existing grape purchase contracts. For
        the
        year ended February 28, 2005, acquisition-related integration costs,
        restructuring and related charges and unusual costs consist of financing
        costs
        associat

ed
        with
        the redemption of the Company’s Senior Subordinated Notes (as defined in Note 9)
        and the repayment

of the
        Company’s prior senior credit facility of $31.7 million; the flow through of
        adverse grape cost and acquisition-related integration costs associated with
        the
        Robert Mondavi acquisition of $9.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively;
        restructuring and related charges of $7.6 million; and the flow through of
        inventory step-up associated with the Hardy Acquisition and the Robert Mondavi
        acquisition of $6.4 million; partially offset by a net gain on the sale of
        non-strategic assets and a gain related to the receipt of a payment associated
        with the termination of a previously announced potential fine wine joint
        venture
        of $6.1 million. For the year ended February 29, 2004, acquisition-related
        integration costs, restructuring and related charges and unusual costs consist
        of the flow through of inventory step-up and financing costs associated with
        the
        Hardy Acquisition of $22.5 million and $11.6 million, respectively; and
        restructuring and related charges of $47.9 million, including a write-down
        of
        commodity concentrate inventory of $16.8 million, partially offset by the
        relief
        from certain excise tax, duty and other costs incurred in prior years of
        $10.4
        million.

The
        Company evaluates performance based on operating income of the respective
        business units. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
        described for the Company in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
        in
        Note 1 and include the recently adopted accounting pronouncements described
        in
        Note 2. Transactions between segments consist mainly of sales of products
        and
        are accounted for at cost plus an applicable margin.

Segment
        information is as follows:


The
        Company’s areas of operations are principally in the United States. Operations
        outside the United States are primarily in the United Kingdom and Australia
        and
        are included within the Constellation Wines segment. Revenues are attributed
        to
        countries based on the location of the selling company.


Geographic
        data is as follows:

23.

ACCOUNTING
        PRONOUNCEMENTS NOT YET ADOPTED:

In
        November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
        No.
        151 (“SFAS No. 151”), “Inventory Costs - an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.”
SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43 (“ARB
        No. 43”), “Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins,” Chapter
        4, “Inventory Pricing,” to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle
        facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage).
        SFAS
        No. 151 requires that those items be recognized as current period charges.
        In
        addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads
        to
        the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production
        facilities. As required, the Company adopted SFAS No. 151 on March 1, 2006.
        The
        adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a material impact on the Company’s
        consolidated financial statements.


In
        December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
        No.
        123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS No. 123(R)”), “Share-Based Payment.” SFAS No. 123(R)
        replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (“SFAS No. 123”),
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” and supersedes Accounting Principles
        Board Opinion No. 25 (“APB Opinion No. 25”), “Accounting for Stock Issued to
        Employees.” SFAS No. 123(R) requires the cost resulting from all share-based
        payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. In addition,
        SFAS No. 123(R) establishes fair value as the measurement objective in
        accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires all entities
        to
        apply a grant date fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for
        share-based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123(R) also amends Statement of
        Financial Accounting Standards No. 95 (“SFAS No. 95”), “Statement of Cash
        Flows,” to require that excess tax benefits be reported as a financing cash
        inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid. SFAS No. 123(R) applies
        to all
        awards granted, modified, repurchased, or cancelled after the required effective
        date (see below). In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
        staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (“SAB No. 107”), “Share-Based
        Payment,” to express the views of the staff regarding the interaction between
        SFAS No. 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations and to provide the
        staff’s
        views regarding the valuation of share-based payment arrangements for public
        companies. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) as of March 1, 2006, using
        the
        modified prospective application. This application requires compensation
        cost to
        be recognized on or after the required effective date for the portion of
        outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered
        based on the grant date fair value of those awards as calculated under SFAS
        No.
        123 for either recognition or pro forma disclosures. As of March 1, 2006,
        the
        unrecognized compensation expense associated with the remaining portion of
        the
        unvested outstanding awards is not material. In addition, the Company estimates
        stock-based compensation expense for options to be granted for the year ended
        February 28, 2007, to approximate $8.5 million, excluding any options granted
        or
        which may be granted in connection with the pending acquisition of Vincor
        (see Note 24).

In
        May
        2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154
        (“SFAS
        No. 154”), “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections - a replacement of APB
        Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.” SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements
        for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle.
        SFAS
        No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle and requires
        retrospective application to prior periods’ financial statements of changes in
        accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the
        period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of changing to the new
        accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 requires that a change in depreciation,
        amortization, or depletion method for long-lived, nonfinancial assets be
        accounted for as a change of estimate effected by a change in accounting
        principle. SFAS No. 154 also carries forward without change the guidance
        in APB
        Opinion No. 20 with respect to accounting for changes in accounting estimates,
        changes in the reporting unit and correction of an error in previously issued
        financial statements. As required, the Company adopted SFAS No. 154 on March
        1,
        2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 154 did not have a material impact on the
        Company’s consolidated financial statements.

24.

SUBSEQUENT
        EVENT:

On
        April
        2, 2006, the Company entered into an arrangement agreement (the “Arrangement
        Agreement”) with Vincor International Inc. (“Vincor”) pursuant to which, subject
        to satisfaction of certain conditions, the Company will acquire all of the
        issued and outstanding common shares of Vincor. Vincor is the world’s eighth
        largest producer and distributor of wine and related products by revenue
        based
        in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, and is Canada’s largest producer and marketer
        of wine. Vincor is also one of the largest wine importers, marketers and
        distributors in the U.K. The pending acquisition of Vincor supports the
        Company’s strategy of strengthening the breadth of its portfolio across price
        segments and geographic markets to capitalize on the overall growth in the
        wine
        industry.


The
        Arrangement Agreement provides for Vincor shareholders to receive in cash
        Cdn$36.50 per common share. Total consideration to be paid in cash to the
        Vincor
        shareholders is expected to be approximately Cdn$1.2 billion. In addition,
        the
        Company expects to pay certain obligations of Vincor, including indebtedness
        outstanding under its bank facility and secured notes. In April 2006, the
        Company entered into a foreign currency forward contract in connection with
        the
        pending acquisition of Vincor to fix the U.S. dollar cost of the
        acquisition and the payment of certain outstanding indebtedness. The foreign
        currency forward contract is for the purchase of Cdn$1.4 billion at a rate
        of Cdn$1.149 to U.S.$1.00. The consideration to be paid to the shareholders
        and
        the amount needed to repay outstanding indebtedness of Vincor is expected
        to be financed with borrowings under an amended and restated senior credit
        facility. The Company currently expects to complete the acquisition of
        Vincor in early June 2006.

In
        accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the acquired net assets
        will
        be recorded at fair value as of the date of the acquisition. The results
        of
        operations of Vincor will be reported in the Constellation Wines segment
        and
        will be included in the Consolidated Statements of Income beginning on the
        date
        of acquisition.

25.

SELECTED
        QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED):

A
        summary
        of selected quarterly financial information is as follows:

(1)

In
                  Fiscal 2006, the Company recorded acquisition-related integration
                  costs,
                  restructuring and related charges and unusual costs consisting
                  of
                  restructuring and related charges associated primarily with the
                  Fiscal
                  2006 Plan and the Robert Mondavi Plan; the flow through of adverse
                  grape
                  cost and acquisition-related integration costs associated primarily
                  with
                  the Robert Mondavi acquisition; the flow through of inventory step-up
                  associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition and certain equity
                  method
                  investments; accelerated depreciation costs in connection with
                  the Fiscal
                  2006 Plan; the write-off of due diligence costs associated with
                  the
                  Company’s evaluation of a potential offer for Allied Domecq; other
                  worldwide wines reorganization costs in connection with the Fiscal
                  Plan; and an income tax adjustment in connection with the reversal
                  of an
                  income tax accrual related to the completion of various income
                  tax
                  examinations. The following table identifies these items, net of
                  income
                  taxes, by quarter and in the aggregate for Fiscal
                  2006:


(2)

The
                  sum of the quarterly earnings per common share in Fiscal 2006 and
                  Fiscal
                  2005 may not equal the total computed for the respective years
                  as the
                  earnings per common share are computed independently for each of
                  the
                  quarters presented and for the full
                  year.

(3)

In
                  Fiscal 2005, the Company recorded acquisition-related integration
                  costs,
                  restructuring and related charges and unusual costs consisting
                  of
                  financing costs associated with the redemption of senior subordinated
                  notes and the repayment of the Company’s prior senior credit facility; the
                  flow through of adverse grape cost and acquisition-related integration
                  costs associated with the Robert Mondavi acquisition; restructuring
                  and
                  related charges resulting primarily from (i) the realignment of
                  business
                  operations in the Constellation Wines segment and (ii) the Robert
                  Mondavi
                  acquisition; the flow through of inventory step-up associated with
                  the
                  Hardy Acquisition and the Robert Mondavi acquisition; and other,
                  which
                  include net gains from the sale of non-strategic assets and the
                  receipt of
                  a payment associated with the termination of a previously announced
                  potential fine wine joint venture. The following table identifies
                  these
                  items, net of income taxes, by quarter and in the aggregate for
                  Fiscal
                  2005:


Item
      9.

Changes
      in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure

Not
      Applicable.

Item
      9A.

Controls
      and Procedures

Disclosure
      Controls and Procedures

The
      Company’s Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer have
      concluded, based on their evaluation as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report, that the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures” (as defined in
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) are effective
      to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that the
      Company files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded,
      processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
      Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.

Internal
      Control over Financial Reporting

(a)

See
                page 53 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for Management’s Annual Report
                on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, which is incorporated
                herein
                by reference.

(b)

See
                page 51 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the attestation report
                of
                KPMG LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm,
                which is incorporated herein by
                reference.

(c)

In
                connection with the foregoing evaluation by the Company’s Chief Executive
                Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, no changes were identified
                in the
                Company’s “internal control over financial reporting” (as defined in the
                Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) that
                occurred during the Company’s fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2006 (the
                Company’s fourth fiscal quarter) that have materially affected, or are
                reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control
                over financial reporting.

Item
      9B.

Other
      Information

Not
      Applicable.

PART
      III

Item
      10.

Directors
      and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The
      information required by this Item (except for the information regarding
      executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K which is included
      in
      Part I hereof in accordance with General Instruction G(3)) is incorporated
      herein by reference to the Company’s proxy statement to be issued in connection
      with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company which is expected to
      be
      held on July 27, 2006, under those sections of the proxy statement to be titled
      “Election of Directors,” “The Board of Directors and Committees of the Board”
and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” which proxy
      statement will be filed within 120 days after the end of the Company’s fiscal
      year.


The
      Company has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its chief executive officer
      and its senior financial officers. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and
      Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics is located on the Company’s internet
      website at http://www.cbrands.com/CBI/investors.htm. Amendments to, and waivers
      granted under, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial
      Executive Code of Ethics, if any, will be posted to the Company’s website as
      well. The Company will provide to anyone, without charge, upon request, a copy
      of such Code of Ethics. Such requests should be directed in writing to Investor
      Relations Department, Constellation Brands, Inc., 370 Woodcliff Drive, Suite
      300, Fairport, New York 14450 or by telephoning the Company’s Investor Center at
      1-888-922-2150.

Item
      11.

Executive
      Compensation

The
      information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
      Company’s proxy statement to be issued in connection with the Annual Meeting of
      Stockholders of the Company which is expected to be held on July 27, 2006,
      under
      that section of the proxy statement to be titled “Executive Compensation” and
      that caption to be titled “Director Compensation” under “Election of Directors,”
which proxy statement will be filed within 120 days after the end of the
      Company’s fiscal year.

Item
                12.

Security
                Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
                Stockholder Matters

The
      information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
      Company’s proxy statement to be issued in connection with the Annual Meeting of
      Stockholders of the Company which is expected to be held on July 27, 2006,
      under
      those sections of the proxy statement to be titled “Beneficial Ownership” and
“Stock Ownership of Management,”

which
      proxy statement will be filed within 120 days after the end of the Company’s
      fiscal year

.
      Additional information required by this item is as follows:

Securities
      Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans

The
      following table sets forth information with respect to the Company’s
      compensation plans under which its equity securities may be issued, as of
      February 28, 2006. The equity compensation plans approved by security holders
      include the Company’s Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, Incentive Stock Option
      Plan and 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The Company’s UK Sharesave Scheme
      (the “UK Plan”) is an equity compensation plan not approved by security holders.
      Under the UK Plan, 2,000,000 shares of Class A Stock may be issued to eligible
      United Kingdom employees and directors of the Company in offerings that
      typically extend from three to five years. Under the terms of the UK Plan,
      participants may purchase shares of Class A Stock at the end of the offering
      period through payroll deductions made during the offering period. The payroll
      deductions are kept in interest bearing accounts until the participant either
      exercises the option at the end of the offering or withdraws from the offering.
      The exercise price for each offering is fixed at the beginning of the offering
      by the committee administering the plan and may be no less than 80% of the
      closing price of the stock on the day the exercise price is fixed. If a
      participant ceases to be employed by the Company, that participant may exercise
      the option during a period of time specified in the UK Plan or may withdraw
      from
      the offering. During the year ended February 28, 2006, an aggregate of 92,622
      shares were issued pursuant to the UK Plan.


Equity
        Compensation Plan Information

______________________

(1)

There is
        currently one ongoing offering under the UK Plan. The exercise price for
        shares that may be purchased at the end of this offering is $7.105.
        The number of options outstanding that represent the right to purchase shares
        at
        the end of the offering is not determinable because the exchange rate is
        not
        known and because the Company cannot predict the level of participation by
        employees during the remaining term of the offering.

Item
                  13.

Certain
                  Relationships and Related
                  Transactions

The
        information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to
        the
        Company’s proxy statement to be issued in connection with the Annual Meeting of
        Stockholders of the Company which is expected to be held on July 27, 2006,
        under
        that section of the proxy statement to be titled “Executive Compensation,” which
        proxy statement will be filed within 120 days after the end of the Company’s
        fiscal year.

Item
        14.

Principal
        Accountant Fees and Services

The
        information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to
        the
        Company’s proxy statement to be issued in connection with the Annual Meeting of
        Stockholders of the Company which is expected to be held on July 27, 2006,
        under
        the relevant portion of the sections of the proxy statement to be titled
“Audit
        Committee Report” and “Selection of Independent Public
        Accountants.”



SIGNATURES

Pursuant
        to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
        of
        1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf
        by
        the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant
        to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has
        been
        signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
        the
        capacities and on the dates indicated.













*
        Designates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

#
        Company’s Commission File No. 001-08495. For filings prior to October 4, 1999,
        use Commission File No. 000-07570.

+
        This
        Exhibit has been filed separately with the Commission pursuant to an application
        for confidential treatment. The confidential portions of this Exhibit have
        been
        omitted and are marked by an asterisk.

The
        Company agrees, upon request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to
        furnish copies of each instrument that defines the rights of holders of
        long-term debt of the Company or its subsidiaries that is not filed herewith
        pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) because the total amount of long-term
        debt
        authorized under such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets
        of the
        Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

125