
10-K



                                    FORM 10-K
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549


[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934
    [FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended August 31, 1995
                                      OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period _____________________ to  _____________________

                           Commission File No. 0-7570

                         CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             Delaware                                      16--0716709

(State or other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                           Identification No.)

                116 Buffalo Street, Canandaigua, New York 14424
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)


         Registrant's telephone number, including area code (716) 394-7900

              Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                       Name of each exchange
       Title of each class                               on which registered
           None                                                None

              Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                Class A Common Stock (Par Value $.01 Per Share)
                               (Title of Class)

                Class B Common Stock (Par Value $.01 Per Share)
                               (Title of Class)



Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the  Registration  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No_


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]



The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant, as of November 22, 1995, was $495,411,365.

The number of shares  outstanding  with respect to each of the classes of common
stock of the Registrant, as of November 22, 1995, is as follows:
                                                    Number of Shares Outstanding
         Class                                          as of November 22, 1995

Class A Common Stock, Par Value $.01 Per Share                       16,246,046
Class B Common Stock, Par Value $.01 Per Share                        3,365,958

                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The  Registrant's  proxy  statement  to be  issued  for the  annual  meeting  of
stockholders  to be held January 18, 1996 is  incorporated  by reference in Part
III.



                                  PART I

Item 1.   Business

     Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the term  "Company"  refers  to
Canandaigua  Wine Company,  Inc. and its  subsidiaries,  all  references to "net
sales" refer to gross  revenues less excise taxes and returns and  allowances to
conform with the Company's method of  classification,  and all references to the
Company's  fiscal year shall refer to the year ended August 31 of the  indicated
year. Market share and industry data disclosed in this Report have been obtained
from the  following  industry and  government  publications:  Wines & Vines; The
Gomberg-Fredrikson  Report;  Jobson's Liquor  Handbook;  Jobson's Wine Handbook;
Neilsen Wine Scan; Jobson's Beer Handbook;  Jobson's Handbook Advance;  The U.S.
Wine Market:  Impact Databank Review and Forecast;  The U.S. Beer Market: Impact
Databank Review and Forecast;  Beer Marketer's  Insights;  Beer Industry Update;
and U.S. Department of the Treasury  Statistical Releases for the period January
through December,  1994. The Company has not  independently  verified this data.
References to market share data are based on unit volume.

     The Company is a Delaware corporation organized in 1972 as the successor to
a  business  founded  in 1945 by  Marvin  Sands,  Chairman  of the  Board of the
Company.

     The Company is a leading  producer and marketer of branded beverage alcohol
products,  with over 125 national and regional  brands which are  distributed by
over  1,000   wholesalers   throughout   the  United   States  and  in  selected
international  markets. The Company is the second largest supplier of wines, the
fourth largest  supplier of distilled  spirits and the fifth largest importer of
beers in the United States.  The Company's  beverage alcohol brands are marketed
in five  general  categories:  table  wines,  sparkling  wines,  dessert  wines,
imported beer and distilled spirits, and include the following principal brands:

 .      Table Wines: Inglenook,  Almaden, Paul Masson, Taylor California Cellars,
       Cribari, Manischewitz, Taylor, Marcus James, Deer Valley and Dunnewood

 .      Sparkling Wines: Cook's, J. Roget, Great Western and Taylor

 .      Dessert Wines: Richards Wild Irish Rose, Cisco and Taylor

 .      Imported Beer: Corona, St. Pauli Girl, Modelo Especial and Tsingtao

 .      Distilled  Spirits: Fleischmann's, Barton,  Mr. Boston, Canadian LTD, Ten
       High, Montezuma,  Inver House and Monte Alban

     Based on available  industry data, the Company  believes it has a 20% share
of the wine market,  a 12% share of the imported  beer market and an 8% share of
the distilled spirits market in the United States.  Within the wine market,  the
Company  believes it has a 28% share of the non-varietal  table wine market,  an
11% share of the  varietal  table wine  market,  a 49% share of the dessert wine
market  and a 31% share of the  sparkling  wine  market.  Many of the  Company's
brands  are  leaders  in  their  respective  categories  in the  United  States,
including Corona, the second largest selling imported beer brand,  Inglenook and
Almaden,  the fifth and sixth largest  selling wine brands,  Richards Wild Irish
Rose, the largest selling dessert



wine brand,  Cook's champagne,  the second largest selling sparkling wine brand,
Fleischmann's,  the fourth largest blended whiskey and domestically bottled gin,
Montezuma,  the second  largest  selling  tequila  brand,  and Monte Alban,  the
largest selling mezcal brand.

     During  the past four  years,  the  Company  has  diversified  its  product
portfolio  through a series of strategic  acquisitions  that have resulted in an
increase in the Company's net sales from $176.6 million in fiscal 1991 to $906.5
million in fiscal 1995. Through these acquisitions,  the Company acquired strong
market positions in the growing beverage alcohol product  categories of varietal
table wine and imported beer. The Company ranks second and fifth in the varietal
table wine and imported beer categories,  respectively.  From 1991 through 1994,
industry  shipments of varietal  table wine and imported beer have grown 41% and
32%,  respectively.   The  Company  has  successfully  integrated  the  acquired
businesses into its existing  business and achieved  significant cost reductions
through  reduced  product  and  organizational   costs.  The  Company  has  also
strengthened its relationship  with  wholesalers,  expanded its distribution and
enhanced its production  capabilities as well as acquired additional management,
operational, marketing and research and development expertise.

     In October 1991, the Company  acquired the Cook's,  Cribari,  Dunnewood and
other brands and related  facilities and assets (the "Guild  Acquisition")  from
Guild  Wineries  and  Distilleries  ("Guild"),  which  enabled  the  Company  to
establish  a  significant  market  position  in the  California  sparkling  wine
category and to enter the  California  table wine market.  The Company  acquired
Barton  Incorporated  ("Barton")  in June 1993,  further  diversifying  into the
imported beer and distilled spirits categories (the "Barton Acquisition").  With
the Barton Acquisition, the Company acquired distribution rights with respect to
the Corona,  St. Pauli Girl,  and other  imported beer brands;  the Barton,  Ten
High, Montezuma,  and other distilled spirits brands; and related facilities and
assets.  On October 15,  1993,  the Company  acquired  the Paul  Masson,  Taylor
California  Cellars  and other  brands  and  related  facilities  and  assets of
Vintners International Company, Inc. ("Vintners") (the "Vintners  Acquisition").
On August 5, 1994, the Company acquired the Almaden, Inglenook and other brands,
a grape  juice  concentrate  business  and  related  facilities  and assets (the
"Almaden/Inglenook   Product  Lines")  from  Heublein  Inc.   ("Heublein")  (the
"Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition"). On September 1, 1995, the Company acquired the
Mr. Boston,  Canadian LTD, Skol, Old Thompson,  Kentucky Tavern, Glenmore and di
Amore distilled  spirits brands;  the rights to the  Fleischmann's and Chi Chi's
distilled spirits brands under long term license agreements;  the U.S. rights to
the Inver House,  Schenley and El Toro  distilled  spirits  brands;  and related
facilities and assets from United Distillers  Glenmore,  Inc. and certain of its
North American affiliates  (collectively,  "UDG") (the "UDG  Acquisition").  See
"Recent Acquisitions."

     The Company's  business  strategy is to continue to  strengthen  its market
position  in each of its  principal  product  categories.  Key  elements  of its
strategy  include:  (i) making  selective  acquisitions in the beverage  alcohol
industry to improve  market  position and capitalize on growth trends within the
industry;  (ii) improving  operating  efficiencies  through  reduced product and
organizational costs of existing and acquired businesses;  (iii) capitalizing on
strong wholesaler relationships resulting from its expanded portfolio of brands;
and (iv) expanding



distribution  into new markets and increasing  penetration  of existing  markets
primarily through line extensions and promotional activities.

RECENT ACQUISITIONS

     The Barton  Acquisition.  On June 29, 1993, the Company acquired all of the
outstanding  shares of capital  stock of Barton.  Barton was the eighth  largest
supplier of distilled  spirits and fifth largest  importer of beer in the United
States.  The Barton  Acquisition has enabled the Company to diversify within the
beverage  alcohol  industry by  participating in the imported beer and distilled
spirits  markets,  which have  similar  marketing  approaches  and  distribution
channels  to  the  Company's  wine  business,  and  to  take  advantage  of  the
experienced  management team that developed Barton as a successful company. With
this acquisition, the Company acquired the right to distribute Corona and Modelo
Especial beer in 25 primarily western states,  national  distribution rights for
St.  Pauli  Girl  and  Tsingtao  and a  diversified  line of  distilled  spirits
including Barton Gin and Vodka, Ten High Bourbon Whiskey and Montezuma Tequila.

     Barton is being  operated  independently  by its  current  management  as a
subsidiary of the Company. Until August 31, 1996, consistent with past practices
and subject to annual  approval by the Company's Board of Directors of an annual
operating  plan for the  coming  year,  Ellis M.  Goodman,  the Chief  Executive
Officer  of  Barton,   has  full  and  exclusive   strategic   and   operational
responsibility for Barton and all of its subsidiaries.

     The  Vintners  Acquisition.  On October  15,  1993,  the  Company  acquired
substantially  all of the assets of Vintners,  and assumed certain  liabilities.
Vintners was the United  States' fifth largest  supplier of wine with two of the
country's  most highly  recognized  brands,  Paul  Masson and Taylor  California
Cellars.  The  Vintners  Acquisition  enabled  the  Company  to expand  its wine
portfolio to include several large and highly  recognized table wine brands that
are  distributed  by  a  substantially   common  wholesaler  network.   Vintners
operations were immediately  integrated with those of the Company at the closing
of the acquisition. With this acquisition, the Company acquired the Paul Masson,
Taylor California Cellars,  Taylor,  Deer Valley, St. Regis  (non-alcoholic) and
Great Western brands and related facilities.

     The Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition. On August 5, 1994, the Company acquired
the Inglenook  and Almaden  brands,  the fifth and sixth  largest  selling table
wines in the United States, a grape juice concentrate business,  and wineries in
Madera and Escalon, California, from Heublein. The Company also acquired Belaire
Creek Cellars, Chateau La Salle and



Charles Le Franc table wines,  Le Domaine  champagne  and  Almaden,  Hartley and
Jacques Bonet brandy.  The accounts  receivable and the accounts payable related
to the acquired assets were not acquired by the Company.

     As a result of the Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition, the Company strengthened
its position as the second largest  supplier of wines in the United States.  The
acquisition  of  the  Inglenook  brand   significantly   expands  the  Company's
restaurant  and  bar  on-premises   presence.   Further,  the  Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisition  has  resulted  in the  Company  becoming  the  leading  grape juice
concentrate  producer  in the  United  States.  The  Company  believes  that the
Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition  enables the Company to achieve  significant cost
savings through the consolidation of its California winery operations.

     Heublein  also agreed not to compete with the Company in the United  States
and  Canada  for  a  period  of  five  years   following   the  closing  of  the
Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition  in  the  production  and  sale  of  grape  juice
concentrate  or sale of packaged  wines  bearing the  designation  "Chablis"  or
"Burgundy" except where, among other exceptions, such designations are currently
used with certain brands  retained by Heublein.  Certain  companies  acquired by
Heublein, however, may compete directly with the Company.

     Following the Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition,  the Company has restructured
its California winery operations (the "Restructuring  Plan"). See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of  Operations"  and
footnotes to the financial statements included in this Report.

     The UDG  Acquisition.  On September 1, 1995, the Company  acquired from UDG
the Mr. Boston, Canadian LTD, Skol, Old Thompson,  Kentucky Tavern, Glenmore and
di Amore distilled spirits brands; the rights to the Fleischmann's and Chi Chi's
distilled spirits brands under long term license agreements;  the U.S. rights to
Inver House,  Schenley and El Toro distilled spirits brands; and inventories and
other related assets.  The UDG Acquisition also included two of UDG's production
facilities, one located in Owensboro, Kentucky, and the other located in Albany,
Georgia. In addition,  the transaction included multiyear agreements under which
UDG will  supply the Company  with bulk  whisky and the Company  will supply UDG
with services including  continued  packaging of various UDG brands not acquired
by the Company.

     The  UDG  Acquisition  doubled  the  Company's  market  share  in the  U.S.
distilled  spirits  category,  making it the fourth  largest  distilled  spirits
supplier in the United States.  As a result of the UDG Acquisition,  the Company
entered the profitable  cordial and liqueur  categories.  In connection with the
UDG  Acquisition,   the  Company  did  not  hire  any  UDG  sales,   general  or
administrative  personnel.  Therefore,  the Company  intends to add personnel in
marketing and administration  and is significantly  increasing its spirits field
sales  force.  The  Company  expects  that the UDG  Acquisition  will enable the
Company to realize  economies of scale in the  purchasing of packaging and other
raw materials and services and to capitalize on strong wholesaler relationships.

INDUSTRY

     The  beverage  alcohol  industry  in  the  United  States  consists  of the
production,  importation, marketing and distribution of beer, wine and distilled
spirits   products.   Over  the  past  five  years  there  has  been  increasing
consolidation  at the supplier,  wholesaler  and, in certain  markets,  retailer
tiers of the beverage alcohol industry.  As a result, it has become advantageous
for certain  suppliers to expand their portfolio of brands through  acquisitions
and internal development in order to take advantage of economies of scale and to
increase  their  importance  to a more  limited  number of  wholesalers  and, in
certain  markets,  retailers.  From 1978  through  1994,  the overall per capita
consumption  of beverage  alcohol  products in the United  States has  generally
declined.  However,  consumption of table wine, and in particular varietal table
wine, and imported beer, has increased during the period.



     The  following  table sets forth the industry unit volumes for shipments of
beverage  alcohol  products in the Company's  five  principal  beverage  alcohol
product  categories  in the United  States  for the five  calendar  years  ended
December 31, 1994:


     Table Wines.  Wines  containing 14% or less alcohol by volume are generally
referred  to as table  wines.  Within  this  category,  table  wines are further
characterized as either "non-varietal" or "varietal." Non-varietal wines include
wines  named  after the  European  regions  where  similar  types of wines  were
originally  produced (e.g.,  burgundy),  niche products and proprietary  brands.
Varietal  wines are  those  named for the grape  that  comprises  the  principal
component  of the wine.  Table  wines that retail at less than $5.75 per 750 ml.
bottle are generally  considered to be popularly  priced while those that retail
at $5.75 or more per 750 ml. bottle are considered premium wines.

     From 1990 to 1994,  shipments  of  domestic  table  wines  increased  at an
average  compound  annual  rate of 2%. In 1992,  domestic  table wine  shipments
increased 8% from the previous year;  this rate of increase was markedly  larger
than in previous years and was attributed in large part to the November 1991 CBS
television 60 Minutes,  French Paradox broadcast about the healthful benefits of
moderate red wine consumption.  In 1994, domestic table wine shipments increased
by 2% when compared to 1993.  This  improvement has been attributed to increased
shipments of varietal table wines. Based on shipments of California table wines,
which  constituted  approximately 91% of the total  domestically  produced table
wine  market in 1994,  shipments  of  varietal  wines  have  grown at an average
compound annual rate of 12% since 1990, with shipments in the first half of 1995
increasing 12% over the prior year. In contrast, shipments of non-varietal table
wines have generally  declined over the same period.  The Company  believes that
the  trends in table  wine  consumption  reflect a  general  change in  consumer
preference  from  non-varietal  to varietal  table wines.  For the first half of
calendar 1995,  shipments of California  table wines  increased 3% over the same
period in 1994.  Shipments  of  imported  table wines have  increased  from 52.6
million gallons in 1990 to 58.6



million  gallons in 1994.  Imported  table wines  constituted  13% of the United
States table wine market in 1994.

     Dessert  Wines.  Wines  containing  more than 14%  alcohol  by  volume  are
generally  referred to as dessert wines.  Dessert wines  generally fall into the
same price  categories as table wines.  In 1994,  shipments of domestic  dessert
wines decreased 7% over 1993. During the period from 1990 to 1994,  shipments of
domestic  dessert  wines  declined  at an average  compound  annual rate of 12%.
Shipments of dessert wines continued to decline during the first half of 1995 as
compared to the first half of 1994 as is evidenced  by a 7% decline  during this
period in shipments of California dessert wines. Dessert wine consumption in the
United  States has been  declining  for many years  reflecting  the impact of an
increase  in  federal  excise  taxes in 1991  and a  general  shift in  consumer
preferences to table and sparkling wines.

     Sparkling Wines.  Sparkling wines include effervescent wines like champagne
and spumante.  Sparkling wines generally fall into the same price  categories as
table wines. Shipments of sparkling wines declined at an average compound annual
rate of 3% from 1990 to 1994;  with shipments of domestic  sparkling  wines also
declining  3% in 1994 as compared to 1993.  Shipments  of  California  sparkling
wines, which constituted 86% of the domestically  produced sparkling wine market
in 1994,  declined  by 2% during the first half of 1995 as compared to the first
half of 1994. The decline in sparkling  wine  consumption is believed to reflect
continuing  concerns  about  drinking and driving,  as a large part of sparkling
wine consumption occurs outside the home at social gatherings and restaurants.

     Imported  Beer.  Shipments of imported  beers have  increased at an average
compound annual rate of 5% from 1990 to 1994. Shipments of Mexican beers in 1994
increased  16% over 1993.  During the twelve  months  ended  August 31,  1995 as
compared  to the  corresponding  period  in 1994,  shipments  of  Mexican  beers
increased  21% as compared to an  increase  of 4% for the entire  imported  beer
category. Shipments of imported beers, as a percentage of the United States beer
market, increased  to 6% in 1994 from 5% in 1993.  Imported  beers,  along  with
microbreweries  and  super-premium  priced domestic beers,  are generally priced
above the leading domestic premium brands.

     Distilled  Spirits.  Shipments  of distilled  spirits in the United  States
declined at an average  compound annual rate of 3% from 1990 to 1994.  Shipments
of distilled  spirits have been  affected by many of the same trends  evident in
the rest of the beverage  alcohol  industry.  Over the past five years,  whiskey
sales have  declined  significantly  while sales of rum,  tequila,  cordials and
liqueurs have  increased.  The Company  believes that  distilled  spirits can be
divided into two general price segments, with distilled spirits selling for less
than $7.00 per 750 ml.  bottle  being  referred to as price value  products  and
those  selling for over $7.00 per 750 ml.  bottle  being  referred to as premium
products.

PRODUCT CATEGORIES

     The Company produces, imports and markets beverage alcohol products in five
principal  product  categories:  table wines,  dessert wines,  sparkling  wines,
imported beer and distilled spirits. The



table  below  sets  forth the net  sales (in  thousands)  and unit  volumes  (in
thousands of gallons) for all of the table,  dessert and sparkling wines,  grape
juice  concentrate  and other  wine-related  products and  services  sold by the
Company and under brands and products  acquired in the Vintners  Acquisition and
the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition for the 1993, 1994 and 1995 fiscal years.


     Table Wines.  The Company  sells over 45 different  brands of  non-varietal
table wines,  substantially  all of which are marketed in the  popularly  priced
segment,  which constituted  approximately 43% of the domestic table wine market
in the United States for the 1994 calendar  year. The Company also sells over 15
different  brands of  varietal  table  wines in both the  popularly  priced  and
premium categories. The table below sets forth the unit volumes (in thousands of
gallons)  for the  domestic  table wines sold by the Company and under  domestic
table wine brands acquired in the Vintners Acquisition and the Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisition for the 1993, 1994 and 1995 fiscal years:




- ----------------------------------
   (a)   Excludes sales of wine coolers but includes sales of wine in bulk.

         The Company's table wine brands include:

         Inglenook:  The fifth largest  selling table wine brand and the seventh
largest varietal wine in the United States with a significant restaurant and bar
presence.

         Almaden:  The sixth  largest  selling  table  wine  brand and the ninth
largest  varietal wine brand in the United States.  Almaden is one of the oldest
and best known table wines in the United States.

         Paul  Masson:  The  eleventh  largest  selling  table wine brand in the
United  States.  Paul Masson is offered in all major  varietal and  non-varietal
product categories in a full range of sizes.

         Taylor  California  Cellars:  The eighteenth  largest  domestic selling
table wine brand in the United  States.  This brand is also offered in all major
varietal and non-varietal product categories in a full range of sizes.

         Cribari:  A well-known  brand of both varietal and  non-varietal  table
wines, marketed in the popularly priced segment.

         Manischewitz:  The largest  selling  brand of kosher wine in the United
States.

         Taylor:  One of the United States' oldest brands of non-varietal  wine,
marketed primarily in the eastern half of the United States.



         Richards Wild Irish Rose: A brand of table wine possessing unique taste
characteristics  which is a line extension of the nation's  leading dessert wine
brand.

         Deer Valley:  This line of California  varietal and non-varietal  table
wines introduced in 1989 has had significant success in California.  The Company
has been  expanding  its  distribution  of this  brand in other  regions  of the
country.

         Cook's:  This varietal wine was created to take  advantage of the brand
recognition associated with Cook's sparkling wines.

         Dunnewood:  Unit volumes of this varietal wine from California's  North
Coast region have also  increased  significantly.  This brand is marketed at the
lower end of the premium price category.

     Unit volume sales of non-varietal  table wines acquired in the Vintners and
Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisitions  have  declined,  while  varietal  table  wines,
including  those acquired by the Company have  increased.  The Company  believes
that these trends in the consumption  of table wines reflect a general change in
consumer preference from non-varietal wines to varietal table wines.

     The Company also markets a selection of  popularly  priced  imported  table
wines. These brands include:

         Marcus James: One of the largest selling imported varietal wines in the
United  States.  Marcus James is a line of varietal  table wines which  includes
white zinfandel, chardonnay, cabernet sauvignon and merlot. The Company owns the
Marcus James brand and contracts for its production in Brazil.

         Partager:  A  popularly  priced  table  wine  with  both  varietal  and
non-varietal  products.  The Company owns the Partager  brand and has contracted
for its  production in France.  The Company is converting  the Partager brand to
Chilean wine to take advantage of lower costs.

         Mateus:  The second largest selling  Portuguese table wine and a highly
recognized   brand  name.  This  brand  is  imported  by  the  Company  under  a
distribution agreement.




     The Company's  unit volume sales of imported wine  increased  steadily from
1.5 million  gallons in fiscal 1993 to 2.0 million  gallons in fiscal 1995. This
improvement  is  attributable  primarily to increased  sales of the Marcus James
varietal wine brand.

     Dessert Wines. With the exception of the premium priced dessert wine brands
acquired in the Vintners  Acquisition,  the Company markets its dessert wines in
the lower end of the popularly  priced  category.  The popularly priced category
represented approximately 89% of the dessert wine market in calendar 1994. Sales
of dessert wines  comprised 8% of the Company's total revenues during the fiscal
year ended  August 31,  1995.  The table  below sets forth the unit  volumes (in
thousands  of gallons) for the  domestic  dessert  wines sold by the Company and
under domestic dessert wine brands acquired in the Vintners  Acquisition for the
1993, 1994 and 1995 fiscal years:



         The Company's dessert wines include:

         Richards Wild Irish Rose: The largest selling dessert wine brand in the
United States and the Company's leading dessert wine brand in unit volume sales.

         Cisco:  The third  largest  selling  dessert  wine  brand in the United
States.  Cisco is a  flavored  dessert  wine  positioned  higher  in price  than
Richards Wild Irish Rose.

         Taylor: Premium dessert wines, including port and sherry.

     The  Company's  unit volumes of dessert  wines have  declined over the last
three years.  The decline can be attributed to a general decline in dessert wine
consumption in the United States. The Company's unit volume sales of its dessert
wine brands  (including  the brands  acquired from  Vintners) have decreased 21%
from fiscal 1993 through fiscal 1995.

     Sparkling  Wines.  The Company markets  substantially  all of its sparkling
wines in the popularly priced segment,  which  constituted  approximately 46% of
the domestic  sparkling wine market in calendar 1994. The table below sets forth
the unit volumes (in thousands of gallons) for the domestic sparkling wines sold
by the Company and under domestic sparkling wine brands acquired in the Vintners
Acquisition  and the  Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition for the 1993, 1994 and 1995
fiscal years:





         The Company's sparkling wine brands include:

         Cook's:  The second  largest  selling  domestic  sparkling  wine in the
United  States.  This brand of champagne is marketed in a bell shaped bottle and
is cork-finished, packaging generally associated with higher priced products.

         J. Roget:  The fourth largest  selling  domestic  sparkling wine in the
United States, priced slightly below Cook's.

         Great Western: A premium priced champagne.

         Taylor:  A premium priced champagne.

         Codorniu:  The second  largest  Spanish  sparkling wine imported in the
United States, sold in the premium price category.  The Company sells this brand
under a distribution agreement.

         Jacques  Bonet: A sparkling  wine priced in the economy  segment,  this
product appeals to restaurants and caterers.

     The  Company's  unit volumes of sparkling  wine have declined over the last
three years.  The decline can be  attributed  to a general  decline in sparkling
wine  consumption  in the United  States.  The  Company's  unit volume  sales of
sparkling wine brands (including the brands acquired from Vintners and Heublein)
have decreased 14% from fiscal 1993 through fiscal 1995.

     Grape  Juice  Concentrate.  As a  related  part of its wine  business,  the
Company produces grape juice concentrate. Grape juice concentrate is sold to the
food and wine  industries as a raw material for the  production  of  juice-based
products,  no-sugar-added foods and beverages.  Grape juice concentrate competes
with other  domestically  produced and imported  fruit-based  concentrates.  The
Company believes that it is the leading grape juice concentrate  producer in the
United  States.  Sales  of  grape  juice  concentrate  accounted  for 12% of the
Company's  net sales for its fiscal year ended 1993.  The table below sets forth
the unit volumes (in thousands of gallons) for the grape juice  concentrate sold
by the  Company  and  the  grape  juice  concentrate  business  acquired  in the
Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition for the 1993, 1994 and 1995 fiscal years:

 



     Other Wine Products and Related Services.  The Company's other wine related
products and services include: grape juice; St. Regis, the leading non-alcoholic
line of wines in the United States; Paul Masson and other brandies; wine coolers
sold primarily under the Sun Country brand name;  cooking wine; and wine for the
production  of  vinegar.   The  Company  also  provides   various  bottling  and
distillation production services for third parties.

     Beer.  The Company is the fifth largest  marketer of imported  beers in the
United States.  The Company  distributes four of the top 20 imported beer brands
in the United States:  Corona, St. Pauli Girl, Modelo Especial and Tsingtao. The
table  below  sets  forth the net  sales (in  thousands)  and unit  volumes  (in
thousands  of cases) for the beer sold by Barton for the years ended  August 31,
1993, 1994 and 1995:


         The Company's principal imported beer brands include:

         Corona:  The number one selling  beer in Mexico and the second  largest
selling  imported beer in the United States.  In addition,  the Company believes
that  Corona  is the  largest  selling  import in the  territory  in which it is
distributed by the Company.  The Company has  represented the supplier of Corona
since 1978 and currently  sells Corona and its related Mexican beer brands in 25
primarily western states.

         St. Pauli Girl:  The  fifteenth  largest  selling  imported beer in the
United States, and the second largest selling German import.

         Modelo  Especial:  One of the  family  of  products  imported  from the
supplier of Corona,  Modelo  Especial  is the number one selling  canned beer in
Mexico and is growing in the United States with 1995  shipments  into the United
States increasing by 38% over 1994 shipments in the same period.

         Tsingtao: The largest selling Chinese beer in the United States.

         The Company's  other  imported beer brands  include  Pacifico and Negra
Modelo  from  Mexico,  Peroni  from  Italy and  Double  Diamond  from the United
Kingdom.  The Company  operates the Stevens  Point  Brewery,  a regional  brewer
located in Wisconsin, which produces Point Special among other brands.

         Net sales and unit  volumes of the  Company's  beer  brands  have grown
during the previous  three fiscal years  primarily as a result of the  increased
sales of Corona and the  Company's  other  Mexican  beer brands.



         Distilled  Spirits.  The  Company is the  fourth  largest  supplier  of
distilled spirits in the United States. The Company produces,  bottles,  imports
and markets a diversified line of quality  distilled  spirits,  and also exports
distilled spirits to more than 15 foreign countries.  The table below sets forth
the net sales (in  thousands)  and unit volumes (in thousands of 9-liter  cases)
for the distilled  products case goods sold by Barton for the years ended August
31, 1993,  1994 and 1995,  and the unit volumes (in thousands of 9-liter  cases)
and net sales (in  thousands)  for the brands and  products  acquired in the UDG
Acquisition  for the year ended  December  31, 1993,  and for the twelve  months
ended August 31, 1994 and 1995:


- -----------------------------
 (a) Data for the fiscal years ended August 31, 1993, 1994 and 1995.
 (b) 1993 data is for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, and 1994 and 1995
data is for the twelve months ended August 31, 1994 and 1995.

         The Company's leading distilled spirits brands include:

         Fleischmann's  Vodka,  Gin and Preferred:  The fourth  largest  blended
whiskey and domestically bottled gin.

     Barton Gin and Vodka:  The fifth largest  domestically  bottled gin and the
fifth largest domestically bottled vodka.

         Mr.  Boston:  An  internationally  recognized  name with a full line of
spirits, including cordials, cocktails, flavored brandies, gin and vodka.

         Canadian LTD: The fifth largest domestically bottled Canadian whisky.

         Ten High  Bourbon:  One of the  leading  bourbon  brands in the  United
States.

         Montezuma:  This brand is the  second  largest  selling  tequila in the
United States.

         Inver House:  The fifth largest domestically bottled Scotch whisky.

         Monte Alban: A premium priced product which the Company believes is the
largest selling mezcal in the United States.

     Other  products  include Skol Vodka,  Gin and Rum;  Crystal  Palace Gin and
Vodka;  Glenmore  spirits;  Chi Chi's cocktails;  Lauder's,  House of Stuart and
Highland  Mist Scotch  whiskies;  Old  Thompson,  Kentucky  Gentleman,  Kentucky
Tavern,  Very Old  Barton and Tom Moore  bourbon  whiskeys;  di Amore  liqueurs;
Schenley  spirits;  Sabroso coffee liqueur;  Northern  Light,  Canadian Host and
Canadian  Supreme  Canadian  whiskies and  Imperial,  Barton  Reserve and Barton
Premium  blended  whiskeys.  Substantially  all of  the  Company's  unit  volume
consists of products marketed in the price value




segment,  which  the  Company  believes  constituted  approximately  48%  of the
distilled spirits market in calendar 1994.

     Although  net sales and unit  volumes of the  Company's  distilled  spirits
brands were flat over the periods presented,  there have been increases in sales
of certain product types. Unit volumes of vodka and tequila have increased while
Scotch and bourbon have experienced decreases in unit volume.

     During  the  period  from  1993 to 1995,  the  brands  acquired  in the UDG
Acquisition  declined in excess of industry  rates.  The Company  believes  that
these declines  resulted from non-  competitive  retail pricing and  promotional
activities. The Company is implementing pricing and promotional activities which
it expects  will  reduce the rate of  decline by the end of the  Company's  1996
fiscal year.

     In addition to the branded products described above, the Company also sells
distilled  spirits  in  bulk  and  provides  contract  production  and  bottling
services.  These  activities  accounted  for net sales  during the twelve  month
periods ended August 31, 1993, 1994 and 1995 of $10.6 million,  $7.0 million and
$5.8 million,  respectively. The Company expects contract production services to
increase significantly in fiscal 1996 as a result of the UDG Acquisition.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

     The  Company's  products are  distributed  and sold  throughout  the United
States  through  over  1,000  wholesalers,  as well as through  state  alcoholic
beverage  control  agencies.  The  Company  employs a full-time  in-house  sales
organization  of  approximately  350 people to develop  and service its sales to
wholesalers  and state  agencies.  The  Company's  sales force is  organized  in
separate  sales  divisions:  a beer  division,  a  spirits  division  and a wine
division.  The Company  believes that the  organization  of its sales force into
separate  divisions  positions  it to maintain a high degree of focus on each of
its  principal  product  categories.   Gross  sales  to  the  Company's  largest
wholesaler,  Southern  Wine and  Spirits,  represented  10.6%  and  12.3% of the
Company's gross sales for the fiscal year ended 1995 and 1994.

     The Company's  marketing  strategy places primary emphasis upon promotional
programs  directed  at its  broad  national  distribution  network  (and  to the
retailers  served by that network).  The Company closely manages its advertising
expenditures  in relation  to the  performance  of its  brands.  The Company has
extensive marketing programs for its brands including television, radio, outdoor
and  print  advertising,  promotional  programs  on both a  national  basis  and
regional basis in accordance with the strength of the brands, event sponsorship,
market  research,   point-of-sale   materials,   trade  advertising  and  public
relations.

TRADEMARKS AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS

     The Company's wine and distilled  spirits  products are sold under a number
of trademarks. Most of these trademarks are owned by the Company.



     The Company also  produces and sells wines and distilled  spirits  products
under  exclusive  license or  distribution  agreements.  Significant  Agreements
include:  a long term license  agreement  with Nabisco Brands Company for a term
which expires in 2008 and which automatically  renews for successive  additional
20 year terms  unless  cancelled  by the Company for the  Fleischmann's  spirits
brands; a long term license  agreement with Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc. for a term
which  expires  in 2116 for the Ten High,  Crystal  Palace,  Northern  Light and
Imperial  Spirits  brands;  and  a  long term  license  agreement  with  The  B.
Manischewitz Company for a term which expires in 2042 for the Manischewitz brand
of kosher wines.

     The  Company  also has other  less  significant  license  and  distribution
agreements  related  to the sale of wine and  distilled  spirits  with  terms of
various durations.

     All of the Company's  imported beer products are marketed and sold pursuant
to exclusive distribution agreements with the suppliers of these products. These
agreements  have terms that vary and prohibit the Company from  importing  other
beers from the same country.  The Company's  agreement to distribute  Corona and
its other  Mexican  beer  brands  exclusively  throughout  25 states was renewed
effective  January  1994 and expires in  December  1998 with  automatic  renewal
thereafter for one year periods from year to year unless terminated.  Under this
agreement,  the  Mexican  supplier  has the right to  consent  to Mr.  Goodman's
successor as Chairman and Chief Executive  Officer of Barton's beer  subsidiary,
which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, and, if such consent is properly
withheld,   to  terminate  the  agreement.   The  Company's  agreement  for  the
importation of St. Pauli Girl expires in 1998 with automatic  renewal until 2003
unless the Company  terminates  the agreement.  The Company's  agreement for the
exclusive  importation  of  Tsingtao  throughout  the entire  United  States was
renewed  effective  January 1994 and expires in December  1996 with an automatic
renewal to December  1999.  These  agreements  may be terminated  prior to their
expiration  dates or the Company will have no right to renew these agreements at
the  expiration of their terms if the Company fails to meet certain  performance
criteria.   The  Company  believes  it  is  currently  in  compliance  with  its
distribution agreement for its Mexican beers. From time to time, the Company has
failed, and may in the future fail, to satisfy certain  performance  criteria in
its   distribution   agreements.   However,   given  the   Company's   long term
relationships  with its  suppliers,  the  Company  does not  believe  that these
agreements will be terminated for such reasons.

COMPETITION

     The beverage alcohol industry is highly  competitive.  The Company competes
on the  basis  of  quality,  price,  brand  recognition  and  distribution.  The
Company's   beverage   alcohol   products   compete  with  other  alcoholic  and
non-alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in retail
stores and marketing focus by the Company's  wholesalers.  The Company  competes
with numerous  multinational  producers  and  distributors  of beverage  alcohol
products,  many of which have significantly  greater resources than the Company.
The Company's principal  competitors include E&J Gallo Winery and The Wine Group
in the wine category,  Van Munching & Co., Molson  Breweries USA and Guinness in
the  imported  beer  category,  and Jim Beam  Brands  in the  distilled  spirits
category.

PRODUCTION

     The  Company's  wines are produced  from  several  varieties of wine grapes
grown  principally  in  California  and New York.  The grapes are crushed at the
Company's  wineries and stored as wine,  grape juice or concentrate.  Such grape
products may be made into wine for sale under the Company's brand names, sold to
other  companies  for resale under their own labels,  or shipped to customers in
the form of juice, juice concentrate, unfinished wines, high-proof grape spirits
or brandy.  Most of the  Company's  wines are  bottled and sold within 18 months
after the grape  crush.  The  Company's  inventories  of wines,  grape juice and
concentrate  are  usually at their  highest  levels in  November  and  December,
immediately after the crush of each year's grape harvest,  and are substantially
reduced prior to the subsequent year's crush.



     The bourbon whiskeys, domestic blended whiskeys and light whiskeys marketed
by the Company are primarily  produced and aged by the Company at its distillery
in  Bardstown,  Kentucky,  though  it may  from  time  to  time  supplement  its
inventories through purchases from other distillers.  At its Atlanta and Albany,
Georgia  facilities,  the Company  produces all of the neutral grain spirits and
whiskeys used by it in the production of vodka,  gin and blended whiskey sold by
it to customers in the state of Georgia. The Company's  requirements of Canadian
and Scotch whiskies, and tequila,  mezcal, and the neutral grain spirits used by
it in the  production  of gin and vodka for sale  outside of Georgia,  and other
spirits products, are purchased from various suppliers.

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

     The  principal  components  in  the  production  of the  Company's  branded
beverage alcohol products are: packaging materials, primarily glass; grapes; and
other agricultural products, such as grain.

     The Company  utilizes  glass and PET bottles and other  materials,  such as
caps,  corks,  capsules,  labels  and  cardboard  cartons  in the  bottling  and
packaging of its products.  Glass bottle costs are one of the largest components
of the  Company's  cost of product  sold.  The glass  bottle  industry is highly
concentrated   with  only  a  small  number  of   producers.   The  Company  has
traditionally  obtained,  and continues to obtain, its glass requirements from a
limited  number of  producers.  The Company has not  experienced  difficulty  in
satisfying its  requirements  with respect to any of the foregoing and considers
its  sources of supply to be  adequate.  However,  the  inability  of any of the
Company's  glass bottle  suppliers to satisfy the Company's  requirements  could
adversely affect the Company's operations.

     Most of the Company's annual grape  requirements are satisfied by purchases
from each  year's  harvest,  which  normally  begins in August and runs  through
October.  During the 1995 grape growing season, there were industry shortages of
a number of grape  varieties due largely to growing  demand for certain types of
wine  such as  Cabernet  Sauvignon,  Merlot,  White  Zinfandel  and  Chardonnay.
Although grape costs declined during the prior two years,  the increased  demand
for certain grape  varieties  caused grape prices to increase  significantly  in
1995 over 1994.  Because  new  vineyards  can take three to four years to become
productive,  the Company  anticipates  that the demand for some grape  varieties
will  continue to exceed  supply and that certain grape prices will increase for
the 1996 grape  harvest.  The Company  believes that it has adequate  sources of
grape supplies to meet its sales  expectation for fiscal 1996.  However,  in the
event demand for certain wine products exceeds expectations for fiscal 1996, the
Company could experience shortages.

     The Company owns no vineyards in California and purchases  grapes from over
900  independent  growers  principally  in the San Joaquin  Valley and  Monterey
regions of  California  and in New York State.  The Company  enters into written
purchase  agreements  with a majority of these growers on a year-to-year  basis.
However, in connection with the Vintners  Acquisition and the  Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisition, the Company acquired certain long term grape purchase contracts. In
addition,  the Company's negligible purchases of grapes from the Napa Valley and
related  regions  minimize its  exposure to  phylloxera  and other  agricultural
risks.  However,  phylloxera  in these  regions has caused  certain  wineries to
increase  their  purchases of grapes from the San Joaquin and Monterey  regions.
The Company is currently considering the purchase of vineyards to supplement its
grape supply.

     The  distilled   spirits   manufactured  by  the  Company  require  various
agricultural  products,  neutral  grain  spirits and bulk  spirits.  The Company
fulfills  its  requirements  through  purchases  from various  sources,  through
contractual  arrangements and through purchases on the open market.  The Company
believes that adequate supplies of the aforementioned  products are available at
the present time.




GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     The  Company's  operations  are  subject  to  extensive  federal  and state
regulation.  These  regulations  cover,  among other matters,  sales  promotion,
advertising and public relations, labeling and packaging, changes in officers or
directors,  ownership or control,  distribution  methods and relationships,  and
requirements  regarding brand  registration  and the posting of prices and price
changes. All of the Company's facilities are also subject to federal,  state and
local  environmental  laws and regulations and the Company is required to obtain
permits and licenses to operate its facilities.  The Company believes that it is
in   compliance  in  all  material   respects  with  all  presently   applicable
governmental  laws  and  regulations  and that  the  cost of  administration  of
compliance with such laws and regulations  does not have, and is not expected to
have, a material adverse impact on the Company's  financial condition or results
of operations.

EMPLOYEES

     The Company  had  approximately  2,150  full-time  employees  at the end of
fiscal 1995, as compared to 2,650  employees at the end of fiscal 1994.  The net
reduction of 500 employees was due primarily to the consolidation of a number of
wine production  facilities,  both in California and in New York.  Subsequent to
the UDG Acquisition,  the Company has approximately  2,400 full-time  employees,
approximately  1,000 of whom are covered by  collective  bargaining  agreements.
Additional  workers may be employed  by the  Company  during the grape  crushing
season. The Company considers its employee relations to be good.

Item 2.   Properties

     The Company currently  operates 13 wineries,  three distilling and bottling
plants, two bottling plants and a brewery,  all of which include warehousing and
distribution  facilities  on the premises.  The Company  considers its principal
facilities to be the Mission Bell winery in Madera, California; the Canandaigua,
New York  winery;  the Monterey  Cellars  winery in  Gonzales,  California;  the
distilling  and  bottling  facility  located  in  Bardstown,  Kentucky;  and the
bottling facility located in Owensboro, Kentucky.

     In New York, the Company  operates three wineries  located in  Canandaigua,
Naples and Batavia.  The lease for the  Hammondsport,  New York winery facility,
entered into in connection with the Vintners Acquisition, expired in April 1995.
Production at this  facility was  consolidated  at the Company's  other New York
wineries.

     The Company  currently  operates 10 winery  facilities in  California.  The
Mission Bell winery is a crushing,  wine  production,  bottling and distribution
facility and a grape juice  concentrate  production  facility.  The Mission Bell
winery has absorbed the production of the Central Cellars winery, which has been
closed and is expected to be sold.  The Monterey  Cellars  winery is a crushing,
wine production and bottling facility. As part of the Restructuring Plan, during
fiscal 1995,  substantially  all of the branded wine bottling  operations at the
Monterey Cellars winery,  where Paul Masson and Taylor  California  Cellars were
bottled,  were moved to the Mission Bell winery.  The other wineries operated in
California are located in Escalon,  Lodi,  McFarland,  Madera, Fresno and Ukiah.
The Escalon facility is operated under a long term lease with an option to buy.



     The  Company  operates  five  facilities  that  produce,  bottle  and store
distilled  spirits.  It owns  production,  bottling  and storage  facilities  in
Bardstown,  Kentucky,  and Atlanta and Albany,  Georgia,  and operates  bottling
plants in Owensboro, Kentucky and Carson, California, which is near Los Angeles.
The Carson plant is operated under a management contract,  which is scheduled to
expire on December  31, 1997,  subject to a one year  extension at the option of
the plant  lessor.  The Carson  plant  receives  distilled  spirits in bulk from
Bardstown and outside  vendors,  which it bottles and  distributes.  The Company
also  performs  contract  bottling at the Carson plant.  The Bardstown  facility
distills,  bottles and  warehouses  whiskey for the  Company's  account and on a
contractual basis for other participants in the industry. The Owensboro facility
bottles and warehouses  whiskey for the Company's  account and performs contract
bottling.  The  Company  also owns  production  plants in  Atlanta  and  Albany,
Georgia, which produce vodka, gin and blended whiskeys.

     The Company owns a brewery in Stevens  Point,  Wisconsin  where it produces
and bottles Point beer and contract  brews and packages for a variety of brewing
and other food and beverage industry members. In addition,  the Company owns and
maintains its corporate headquarters in Canandaigua, New York, and leases office
space in Chicago, Illinois for its Barton headquarters.

     The Company  believes that all of its  facilities are in good condition and
working order and have adequate  capacity to meet its needs for the  foreseeable
future.

     Most of the  Company's  real  property has been pledged  under the terms of
collateral  security  mortgages as security for the payment of outstanding loans
under the Amended  Credit  Facility  (as defined  below in Item 7 of this Report
under "Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources").

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

     The Company and its  subsidiaries  are subject to  litigation  from time to
time in the ordinary  course of business.  Although the amount of any  liability
with  respect  to such  litigation  cannot  be  determined,  in the  opinion  of
management,  such  liability  will not have a  material  adverse  effect  on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations.

     In  connection  with an  investigation  in the  State  of New  Jersey  into
regulatory trade practices in the beverage alcohol industry, one employee of the
Company was arrested in March 1994 and another employee  subsequently came under
investigation  in  connection  with  providing  "free  goods"  to  retailers  in
violation of New Jersey beverage alcohol laws. A proposed consent order has been
received from the appropriate regulatory agency by the Company which would, when
finalized, fully resolve the matter without any material effect on the Company.

     On November 13, 1995, a purported  stockholder of the Company filed a class
action in the United  States  District  Court for the  Southern  District of New
York,  Ventry,  et al. v.  Canandaigua  Wine Company,  Inc., et al. (the "Ventry
Class  Action").  On November  16, 1995  another  purported  stockholder  of the
Company  filed a class  action  in the  United  States  District  Court  for the
Southern  District of New York,  Brickell  Partners,  et al. v. Canandaigua Wine
Company,  Inc., et al. (the "Brickell Class Action" and together with the Ventry
Class Action, the "Class Actions").  The defendants in the Class Actions are the
Company,  Richard  Sands  and  Lynn  K.  Fetterman.  The  Class  Actions  assert
violations  of Section  10(b) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 and Rule
10b-5  promulgated  thereunder  and seek to recover  damages  in an  unspecified
amount which  allegedly the class members  sustained by purchasing the Company's
common  stock at  artificially  inflated  prices.  The  complaints  in the Class
Actions  allege  that  the  Company's   public  documents  and  statements  were
materially incomplete and, as a result, misleading.

     The Class  Actions  were filed after the Company  announced  its results of
operations  for the  year  ended  August  31,  1995 on  November  9,  1995.  See
"Management's Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations  - Fiscal Year Ended  August 31,  1995  Compared to Fiscal Year Ended
August  31,  1994"  included  in this  Report.  These  results  were  below  the
expectations  of analysts  and on November  10, 1995 the price of the  Company's
Class A common stock fell approximately 38% and the price of the Company's Class
B common stock fell approximately 30%.




        The  Company  believes  that the Class  Actions  are  without  merit and
intends to vigorously defend the Class Actions.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

     The following  table sets forth  information  with respect to the executive
officers of the Company:

NAME              AGE   OFFICE HELD
Marvin Sands      71    Chairman of the Board
Richard Sands     44    President and Chief Executive Officer
Robert Sands      37    Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
Ellis M. Goodman  58    Executive Vice President of the Company
                         and Chief Executive Officer of Barton Incorporated
Lynn K. Fetterman 48    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Daniel C. Barnett 45    Senior Vice President and President of Wine Division
Bertram E. Silk   63    Senior Vice President

     Marvin  Sands is the founder of the  Company,  which is the  successor to a
business  he started  in 1945.  He has been a director  of the  Company  and its
predecessor  since 1946 and was Chief  Executive  Officer  until  October  1993.
Marvin Sands is the father of Richard Sands and Robert Sands.

     Richard  Sands,  Ph.D.,  has  been  employed  by  the  Company  in  various
capacities since 1979. He was elected Executive Vice President and a director in
1982,  became President and Chief Operating  Officer in May 1986 and was elected
Chief  Executive  Officer in October  1993.  He is a son of Marvin Sands and the
brother of Robert Sands.

     Robert Sands was appointed  Executive Vice  President,  General  Counsel in
October 1993. In January 1995, he was appointed Secretary of the Company. He was
elected a director of the Company in January 1990 and served as Vice  President,
General Counsel since June 1990.  From June 1986,  until his appointment as Vice
President,  General  Counsel,  Mr.  Sands was employed by the Company as General
Counsel. He is a son of Marvin Sands and the brother of Richard Sands.

     Ellis M. Goodman has been a director and Vice President since July 1993 and
was elected Executive Vice President in October 1993. Mr. Goodman has been Chief
Executive Officer of Barton  Incorporated since 1987 and Chief Executive Officer
of Barton Brands, Ltd. (predecessor to Barton Incorporated) since 1982.

     Lynn K.  Fetterman  joined  the  Company  during  April  1990  as its  Vice
President,  Finance and Administration,  Secretary and Treasurer and was elected
Senior Vice President,  Chief  Financial  Officer and Secretary in October 1993.
For more than ten years prior to that,  he was employed by Reckitt and Colman in
various executive capacities,  including Vice President,  Finance of its Airwick
Industries  Division  and Vice  President,  Finance of its  Durkee-French  Foods
Division.  Mr.  Fetterman's  most recent position with Reckitt and Colman was as
its Vice  President-Controller.  Reckitt and Colman's principal business relates
to consumer food and household products.

     Daniel C. Barnett  joined the Company  during  November  1995 as its Senior
Vice  President  and President of the Wine  Division.  From July 1994 to October
1995,  Mr.  Barnett  served as President  and Chief  Executive  Officer of Koala
Springs International, a juice beverage company. Prior to that, from




April 1991 to June 1994, Mr.  Barnett was Vice President and General  Manager of
Nestle  USA's  beverage  businesses.  From  October  1988 to April 1991,  he was
President of Weyerhaeuser's baby diaper division.

     Bertram E. Silk has been a director and Vice President of the Company since
1973 and was elected Senior Vice President in October 1993. He has been employed
by the Company  since 1965.  Currently,  Mr. Silk is in charge of the  Company's
grape grower relations in California.  Before moving from Canandaigua,  New York
to  California in 1989,  Mr. Silk was in charge of  production  for the Company.
From 1989 to August 1994,  Mr. Silk was in charge of the  Company's  grape juice
concentrate business in California.



                                 PART II


Item 5.  Market  for the  Registrant's  Common  Equity and  Related  Stockholder
Matters

     The  Company's  Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are quoted on
the Nasdaq National Market under the symbols "WINEA" and "WINEB",  respectively.
The following table sets forth for the periods  indicated the high and low sales
prices of the Class A Common  Stock and the Class B Common  Stock as reported on
the Nasdaq National Market.


     At  November  22,  1995 the  number of  holders of record of Class A Common
Stock and Class B Common Stock of the Company were 1,268 and 370, respectively.

     The  Company's  policy is to retain  all of its  earnings  to  finance  the
development and expansion of its business, and the Company has not paid any cash
dividends since its initial public offering in 1973. In addition,  the Company's
current bank credit  agreement  prohibits and the Company's  indenture for its 8
3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2003 restricts the payment of cash dividends.




Item 6.  Selected Financial Data


For  fiscal  years  ended  August  31,  1995,  1994 and 1993,  see  Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations  under
Item 7 of this  Report  and Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  as of
August 31, 1995 under Item 8 of this Report.

Per share  amounts  have been  appropriately  adjusted to reflect the  Company's
three-for-two stock splits declared on September 26, 1991 and June 1, 1992.




Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

Results of Operations of the Company

     The Company has realized significant growth in sales and profitability over
recent years  primarily as a result of  acquisitions.  The Company  acquired the
outstanding  capital stock of Barton on June 29, 1993, the assets of Vintners on
October 15, 1993 and the Almaden/Inglenook  Product Lines on August 5, 1994. The
Company's  results of operations for the 1994 fiscal year include the results of
operations  of  Vintners  from  October  15,  1993,  the  date  of the  Vintners
Acquisition,  until the end of the period,  and the results of operations of the
Almaden/Inglenook   Product  Lines  from  August  5,  1994,   the  date  of  the
Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition, until the end of the period.

     On September 1, 1995, the Company  acquired the Mr.  Boston,  Canadian LTD,
Skol, Old Thompson,  Kentucky  Tavern,  Glenmore and di Amore distilled  spirits
brands;  the U.S.  rights to the Inver  House,  Schenley  and El Toro  distilled
spirits brands;  the rights to the Fleischmann's and Chi Chi's distilled spirits
brands under long term license agreements; related inventories and other assets;
and two  production  facilities  located  in  Owensboro,  Kentucky  and  Albany,
Georgia. In addition,  the transaction included multiyear agreements under which
UDG will supply Barton with bulk whisky and Barton will supply UDG with services
including  continued  packaging of various UDG brands.  Also, in addition to the
assets  acquired in the  transaction,  at  closing,  Barton  purchased  from UDG
certain  brandy  inventories  and  packaging  supplies  related to the  contract
production  arrangements  with UDG.  The Company  financed  the UDG  Acquisition
through an  amendment  to its Credit  Facility  (as  defined  below),  primarily
through an increase in its Term Loan facility under the Credit Facility. The UDG
Acquisition is significant to the Company and will have a material impact on the
Company's  future results of operations.  The UDG Acquisition has  significantly
strengthened  the  Company's  position in the United  States  distilled  spirits
industry.  As a result of the UDG  Acquisition the Company's  distilled  spirits
market share doubled and the Company entered the profitable  cordial and liqueur
categories.

     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in
the Company's consolidated statements of income expressed as a percentage of net
sales:




Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 1995 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 1994

     Net Sales

     Net sales for the 1995 fiscal year  increased to $906.5 million from $629.6
million  for the  fiscal  year ended  August 31,  1994,  an  increase  of $276.9
million,  or approximately  44.0%.  This increase resulted from the inclusion of
(i) $234.7  million of net sales of products  acquired in the  Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisition;  (ii) an overall  increase of $25.8 million in net sales of Company
products,  excluding  the impact of the net sales of products that were acquired
during  fiscal  1994;  and (iii) an  additional  $16.4  million  of net sales of
Vintners'  products  resulting from inclusion of these products in the Company's
portfolio  for the entire first  quarter of fiscal 1995 versus only six weeks in
the first  quarter of fiscal 1994.  Excluding the impact of the  additional  six
weeks of net sales of Vintners' products during the first quarter of fiscal 1995
and all of the net sales resulting from the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition during
the 1995 fiscal year, the Company's net sales  increased 4.1% as compared to the
fiscal year ended August 31, 1994.  This was  principally  due to increased  net
sales of imported beer brands and varietal table wines.

     For purposes of computing  the net sales and unit volume  comparative  data
below,  sales  of  products  acquired  in  the  Vintners  and  Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisitions  have been  included in the entire period for the fiscal year ended
August 31, 1995 and  included  for the same period  during the fiscal year ended
August 31,  1994,  part of which was prior to the Vintners  Acquisition  and the
Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition.

     The table below sets forth the net sales (in  thousands)  and unit  volumes
(in thousands) for the branded beverage alcohol products, branded wine products,
each  category of branded  wine  products,  beer and spirits  brands sold by the
Company for the 1995 and 1994 fiscal years:



     Net  sales  and unit  volume  of the  Company's  branded  beverage  alcohol
products  for the fiscal  year  ended  August 31,  1995 each  increased  6.0% as
compared to the fiscal year ended August 31, 1994. This increase was principally
due to increased net sales and unit volume of the Company's imported beer brands
and varietal table wine brands.

     Net sales and unit volume of the Company's branded wine products for fiscal
1995  increased  0.1% and decreased  2.2%,  respectively,  as compared to fiscal
1994.  These  results  were  primarily  due to lower  non-varietal  table  wine,
sparkling  wine and dessert wine sales offset by improved  varietal  wine sales.
The Company's  results were also negatively  affected by a backlog in fulfilling
orders  at  the  end of  fiscal  1995  due to  production  and  shipment  delays
associated  with  the  relocation  of  West  Coast  bottling  operations  to the
Company's Mission Bell winery under the Restructuring  Plan. The Company expects
the backlog to be substantially eliminated in the first quarter fiscal 1996. The
Company is also in the process of  increasing  prices on selected  branded  wine
products during fiscal 1996 in response to increased grape costs associated with
the 1995 harvest and to phase out  introductory  pricing on recently  introduced
line extensions of varietal wine products.

 

     Net sales and unit volume of the Company's  non-varietal  table wine brands
for fiscal  1995  declined  4.8% and 6.5%,  respectively,  as compared to fiscal
1994. The Company  believes these declines are consistent with a general decline
in the  consumption of  non-varietal  table wine products,  reflecting  changing
consumer preferences toward varietal table wines.

     Net sales and unit volume of the Company's  varietal  table wine brands for
fiscal 1995 increased 20.8% and 22.0%, respectively, as compared to fiscal 1994,
primarily  from  increased  sales of most of the Company's  varietal  table wine
brands.  These increases  reflect the continuation of the Company's  strategy to
expand  distribution  into new  markets  and  increase  penetration  of existing
markets primarily through line extensions and promotional activities. As part of
this strategy,  the Company also  offered  certain new and existing  products at
highly competitive prices.

     Net sales and unit volume of the  Company's  dessert wine brands for fiscal
1995 decreased 4.5% and 6.7%, respectively, compared to fiscal 1994. The Company
believes those declines are consistent  with a general decline in consumption of
dessert wines.  Declines in the Company's  beverage dessert wines were partially
offset by growth in higher  priced  traditional  dessert  wines such as port and
sherry.

     Net sales and unit volume of the Company's sparkling wine brands for fiscal
1995  declined  10.1% and 11.7%,  respectively,  compared to fiscal 1994.  These
declines  were  primarily  the result of strong  competition  and weak  consumer
demand for sparkling wine.

     Net sales and unit  volume of the  Company's  beer  brands for fiscal  1995
increased  24.3%  and  23.9%,  respectively,  compared  to  fiscal  1994.  These
increases  resulted primarily from increased sales of the Company's Corona brand
and its other Mexican beer brands.  The Company does not  anticipate  that sales
of imported beers will continue to grow at such rates.

     Net sales and unit volume of the Company's  spirits  brands for fiscal 1995
decreased 0.4% and increased  1.4%,  respectively,  compared to fiscal 1994. The
unit volume growth is due to increased shipments of vodka, tequila and brandy.

     Gross Profit

     Gross profit for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1995  increased to $252.7
million  from  $182.4  million  for the fiscal year ended  August 31,  1994,  an
increase of $70.3 million,  or approximately  38.6%. This increase resulted from
the inclusion of the Almaden/Inglenook  Product Lines with those of the Company,
and to a lesser  extent from  increased  sales of  imported  beer brands and the
inclusion of Vintners'  product  lines with those of the Company.  The Company's
gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased to 27.9% for the fiscal year
ended August 31, 1995 from 29.0% for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1994.  The
Company's  gross profit  percentage  decreased  as a result of the  inclusion of
operations  acquired  in the  Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition,  which had a lower
gross profit percentage




than the  remainder  of the  Company's  operations,  and  reduced  gross  profit
percentages  on sales of certain of the  Company's  table wine  brands in fiscal
1995 as compared to fiscal 1994.

     The cost of grapes,  a major  component of the  Company's raw materials for
its winemaking,  increased  significantly for the 1995 harvest compared with the
1994  harvest,  and is expected to further  increase  in the 1996  harvest.  The
Company  uses the last in, first out (LIFO)  method of valuing its  inventories.
The increased grape costs  associated with the 1995 grape harvest will therefore
increase the  Company's  costs of goods sold  beginning in the first  quarter of
fiscal 1996. As a result,  gross profit  margins for the Company's wine business
could be adversely affected during fiscal 1996.

     Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

     Selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses  for the fiscal year ended
August 31, 1995  increased to $159.2  million from $121.4 million for the fiscal
year ended  August 31,  1994,  an increase of $37.8  million,  or  approximately
31.1%. This increase primarily resulted from the additional  expenses associated
with the sales and marketing of the products  acquired in the  Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisition,  and to a lesser extent higher  advertising and promotion  expenses
associated  with  certain wine brands.  As a percentage  of net sales,  selling,
general  and  administrative  expenses  decreased  to 17.6% for  fiscal  1995 as
compared to 19.3% for fiscal 1994 as a result of increased economies of scale.

     Nonrecurring Restructuring Expenses

     In fiscal 1995 the Company incurred a nonrecurring  restructuring charge of
$2.2  million  related to its  Restructuring  Plan which  reduced net income per
share  by  $0.07  on a  fully  diluted  basis  as  compared  to  a  nonrecurring
restructuring  charge  of $24  million  in  fiscal  1994,  also  related  to the
Restructuring  Plan,  which  reduced  net  income  per share by $0.91 on a fully
diluted  basis.  (See  "Financial  Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources"  and  the
footnotes to the financial statements included in this Report.)

     Interest Expense, Net

     Net interest expense  increased $6.5 million to $24.6 million in the fiscal
year ended  August 31,  1995,  as compared  to the fiscal year ended  August 31,
1994.  The increase is primarily due to  borrowings  related to the Vintners and
Almaden/Inglenook Acquisitions.

     Net Income

     Net income for the fiscal  year ended  August 31, 1995  increased  to $41.0
million  from $11.7  million  for the  fiscal  year ended  August 31,  1994,  an
increase of $29.3 million, or approximately  249.6%.  Fully diluted earnings per
share  increased to $2.13 in the fiscal year ended August 31, 1995 from $0.74 in
the fiscal year ended August 31, 1994, a 187.8% improvement.

     Excluding the impact of the nonrecurring restructuring expenses, net income
was $42.4  million in fiscal 1995 as compared to $26.6  million in fiscal  1994.
This  represents  an  improvement  in net  income  of $15.8  million  or  59.4%.
Excluding the



impact of the nonrecurring  restructuring  expenses,  fully diluted earnings per
common  share  increased  to $2.20  from  $1.65,  an  increase  of 33.3%.  These
increases were due to the  contribution of the Almaden and Inglenook  brands and
other products acquired in the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition and increased sales
of imported beer brands.

Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 1994 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 1993

     Net Sales

     Net sales for the Company's  1994 fiscal year  increased to $629.6  million
from $306.3  million for the fiscal year ended August 31,  1993,  an increase of
$323.3 million,  or approximately 106%. The increase resulted from the inclusion
of (i) an  additional  10 months of  Barton's  net sales  during the fiscal year
ended August 31, 1994, amounting to $210.6 million, as compared to two months of
Barton's  net sales in the same period a year ago,  (ii)  $119.2  million of net
sales of Vintners'  products  from  October 15,  1993,  the date of the Vintners
Acquisition  and (iii) $17.1  million of net sales of  products  acquired in the
Almaden/Inglenook   Acquisition   from   August  5,   1994,   the  date  of  the
Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition.  Excluding the impact of the  Acquisitions,  the
Company's net sales decreased $23.5 million,  or 9.2%, when compared to the same
period a year ago.  This was  principally  due to a decrease in net sales of the
Company's  non-branded  products,  specifically grape juice concentrate,  and to
lower sales of the Company's dessert wines.

     For purposes of computing the comparative data below, sales of branded wine
products acquired in the Vintners and  Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisitions have been
included in the fiscal year ended August 31, 1994,  from the  acquisition  dates
through  August 31, 1994,  and  included for the same periods  during the fiscal
year ended  August  31,  1993,  prior to both  acquisitions.  Further,  sales of
branded products  acquired in the Barton  Acquisition have been included for the
entire  fiscal year ended  August 31,  1994,  and  included  for the same period
during the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993,  ten months of which were prior to
the Barton Acquisition.

     Net  sales  and unit  volume  of the  Company's  branded  beverage  alcohol
products for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1994 have increased 0.7% and 1.1%,
respectively,  as  compared  to the same period a year ago.  This  increase  was
principally due to increased net sales and unit volume of the Company's imported
beer brands and, to a lesser extent,  increased net sales and unit volume of the
Company's varietal table wine brands.

     Net sales and unit volume of the  Company's  branded wine  products for the
fiscal  year ended  August 31, 1994  declined  4.6% and 6.0%,  respectively,  as
compared to the same period a year ago. These  decreases were due to lower sales
of branded wine products  acquired from  Vintners  and, to a lesser  extent,  to
lower sales of the Company's  branded wine  products,  exclusive of branded wine
products acquired from Vintners.

     Net sales and unit volume of the Company's  varietal  table wine brands for
the fiscal year ended  August 31, 1994  increased  2.3% and 6.4%,  respectively,
reflecting  increases in substantially all of the Company's  varietal table wine
brands  except for  varietal  table wine brands  acquired  from  Vintners  which
declined 13.2% and 3.1%, in net sales and unit volume,  respectively.  Net sales
and unit  volume of the  Company's  non-varietal  table wine brands for the same
period were down 4.8% and 5.8%, respectively,  principally due to lower sales of
non-varietal table wine brands acquired from Vintners. Net sales and unit volume
of sparkling wine brands each decreased 2.1% in the fiscal year ended August 31,
1994,  versus the same period a year ago. This was  principally due to a general
decline in most of the Company's  sparkling wine brands with the exception of J.
Roget. Net sales and unit volume of the Company's  dessert wine brands were down
11.1% and 13.2%, respectively,  in the fiscal year ended August 31, 1994, versus
the same period a year ago. The Company's net sales and unit




volume of dessert wine brands have  declined  over the last three  years.  These
declines can be attributed to a general  decline in dessert wine  consumption in
the United  States.  For the fiscal  year ended  August 31,  1994,  net sales of
branded  dessert wines  constituted  less than 12% of the Company's  overall net
sales.  Notwithstanding  this, net sales and unit volume of the premium  dessert
wine brands acquired from Vintners increased and remained flat, respectively, in
the fiscal year ended August 31, 1994, versus the same period a year ago.

     Net sales and unit volume of the Company's  beer brands for the fiscal year
ended August 31, 1994 increased by 12.9% and 13.3%, respectively,  when compared
to net sales and unit  volume of these  beer  brands  with  respect  to the same
period a year  ago,  part of which was prior to the  Barton  Acquisition.  These
increases  resulted primarily from increased sales of the Company's Corona brand
and other  Mexican beer brands,  and  increased  sales of its St. Pauli Girl and
Point brands.  The Company's new agreement to continue to distribute  Corona and
its other Mexican beer brands expires in December 1998.

     Net  sales and unit  volume of the  Company's  spirits  case  goods for the
fiscal year ended August 31, 1994 were down 1.5% and up 0.4%,  respectively,  as
compared to net sales and unit volume of these  spirits  case goods with respect
to  the  same  period  a year  ago,  part  of  which  was  prior  to the  Barton
Acquisition.  This decrease in net sales was primarily due to lower net sales of
the Company's aged whiskeys (i.e., Canadian, bourbon and Scotch whiskeys), which
was partially  offset by increased net sales of the Company's  blended  whiskey,
tequila and liqueur brands.

     Gross Profit

     Gross profit  increased  to $182.4  million in the fiscal year ended August
31,  1994,  from $91.4  million in the fiscal  year ended  August 31,  1993,  an
increase of $91.0 million,  or approximately 100%. This increase in gross profit
resulted  from the  inclusion  of the  operations  of Barton,  Vintners  and the
Almaden/Inglenook  Product  Lines with those of the  Company.  Gross profit as a
percentage  of net sales  decreased to 29.0% in the fiscal year ended August 31,
1994,  from 29.8% in the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993. The Company's  gross
margin  decreased  primarily  as a  result  of the  inclusion  of  Barton's  and
Vintners' operations into the Company.

     Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $121.4 million in
the fiscal year ended  August 31,  1994,  from $60.0  million in the fiscal year
ended August 31, 1993, an increase of $61.4 million, or approximately 102%. This
increase  resulted  from the  additional  selling,  general  and  administrative
expenses  associated  with the  operations  of Barton  and  Vintners  and higher
advertising  and  promotional  spending on brands the Company owned prior to the
Barton and Vintners Acquisitions.

     Nonrecurring Restructuring Expenses

     As a result of the Restructuring Plan, the Company recorded a restructuring
charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1994 which reduced  after-tax  income for
fiscal 1994 by $14.9 million,  or $0.91 per share on a fully diluted basis.  See
"Financial  Liquidity and Capital  Resources" and the footnotes to the financial
statements included in this Report.




     Interest Expense, Net

     Interest  expense,  net increased to $18.1 million in the fiscal year ended
August 31, 1994,  from $6.1 million in the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993, an
increase of $12.0  million.  The increase  resulted  primarily  from  borrowings
related to the Barton, Vintners and Almaden/Inglenook Acquisitions.

     Net Income

     Net income  decreased to $11.7  million in the fiscal year ended August 31,
1994, from $15.6 million in the fiscal year ended August 31, 1993, a decrease of
$3.9  million,  or  approximately  24.8%.  The  decrease in net income  resulted
primarily from the  restructuring  charge of $24 million which reduced after-tax
net  income by $14.9  million.  Exclusive  of the  impact  of the  restructuring
charge,  net income  increased 71% to $26.6  million,  or $1.65 of fully diluted
earnings per common share, compared with net income of $15.6 million or $1.20 of
fully  diluted  earnings  per common  share in fiscal  1993.  See  "Nonrecurring
Restructuring Expenses" and "Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources."

Financial Liquidity and Capital Resources

     General

     The  Company's  principal  use of cash in its  operating  activities is for
purchasing and carrying  inventory of raw materials,  inventories in process and
finished goods. The Company's  primary source of liquidity has historically been
cash flow from operations, except during the annual fall grape harvests when the
Company has relied on  short-term  borrowings.  The annual grape crush  normally
begins  in  August  and runs  through  October.  The  Company  generally  begins
purchasing  grapes in August with payments for such grapes beginning to come due
in September.  The  Company's  short-term  borrowings to support such  purchases
generally reach their highest levels in November or December.  Historically, the
Company has used cash flow from  operating  activities  to repay its  short-term
borrowings.

     Fiscal Year 1995 Cash Flows

     Operating Activities

     Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 1995 was $73.3 million,
compared to $27.2  million in fiscal 1994 or an increase of 170%,  primarily due
to  increased  net income,  adjusted  for non-cash  items.  In  addition,  lower
inventories  and  accounts  receivable,  which  were  partially  offset by lower
accounts payable and accrued expenses, also contributed to operating cash flows.
Inventories  declined as a result of  implementation  of strategies  designed to
lower inventory levels while accounts  receivable were lower primarily due to an
improved rate of collection. Accounts payable and accrued expenses declined as a
result of the lower inventory levels and lower accruals resulting primarily from
the cancellation of certain adverse grape contracts in fiscal 1995.

     Investing Activities and Financing Activities

     Capital  expenditures  for fiscal 1995 were $37.1  million,  an increase of
$29.3  million as compared  to fiscal  1994,  which  included  $19.1  million of
capital expenditures related to the Restructuring Plan. In addition, the Company
paid $28.3  million in fiscal 1995  relating to  Earn-Out  payments  (as defined
below) to the former Barton stockholders,  as compared to $4.0 million in fiscal
1994.




     Notes Payable were $19.0 million at August 31, 1994 and increased in fiscal
1995 by $50.1 million for seasonal working capital needs,  capital  expenditures
and the  Earn-Out  payments.  These  borrowings  were then repaid in full by the
application  of $22.1  million from the proceeds of the  Company's  November 18,
1994 sale of 3 million  shares  of its Class A Common  Stock to the  public at a
price of $33.50  per  share in  simultaneous  United  States  and  international
offerings  (the  "Offerings")  and $47.0 million from the proceeds of additional
Term Loan borrowings.

     Debt, other than Notes Payable,  was $320.1 million at August 31, 1994, and
decreased  $92.1  million in fiscal 1995,  due to scheduled  debt  repayments of
$27.9  million,  prepayment  of $112.0  million of the Term Loan, of which $82.0
million  represented  a portion of the proceeds  from the  Offerings,  offset by
additional  Term Loan  borrowings of $47.0 million under the Credit Facility and
other borrowings of $0.8 million.

     The Company's Credit Facility

     During fiscal 1994 the Company, its principal operating subsidiaries, and a
syndicate of 21 banks for which The Chase  Manhattan Bank (NA) ("Chase") acts as
agent,  entered into a Second  Amendment and  Restatement  dated as of August 5,
1994 of Amendment and  Restatement of Credit  Agreement dated June 29, 1993 (the
"Credit  Facility").  On August 31, 1995 the Credit Facility  provided for (i) a
$91.0 million Term Loan facility ("Term Loans"), (ii) a $185.0 million Revolving
Loan facility  ("Revolving  Loans"), and (iii) a $25 million Irrevocable Standby
Letter  of  Credit ( the  "Barton  Letter  of  Credit")  related  to the  Barton
Acquisition  Earn-Out  payments  (as defined  below).  As of August 31, 1995 the
Company had under the Credit Facility  outstanding  Term Loans of $91.0 million;
no outstanding  Revolving  Loans,  undrawn  Revolving  Letters of Credit of $4.7
million and the undrawn  $25.0 million  Barton  Letter of Credit.  At August 31,
1995 the Company had $172.5 million available to be drawn in Revolving Loans.

     On  September  1,  1995  the  Company  and a  syndicate  of 20  banks  (the
"Syndicate Banks"), which were substantially the same banks that participated in
the Credit Facility,  entered into a Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
(the "Amended Credit Facility").  The Amended Credit Facility provides for (i) a
$246  million  Term  Loan  facility  due in  August  2001,  (ii) a $185  million
Revolving  Loan  facility  which expires in June 2001 and (iii) the existing $25
million standby irrevocable Barton Letter of Credit,  which expires in December,
1996.
 
    The  Revolving  Loans and the Term  Loan at the  Company's  option,  can be
either a base rate loan or a Eurodollar  rate loan.  In addition,  the Revolving
Loans can be a money market  loan.  A base rate loan bears  interest at the rate
per annum  equal to the higher of (1) the  federal  funds rate for such day plus
1/2 of 1%, or (2) the Chase prime  commercial  lending  rate. A Eurodollar  rate
loan bears interest at LIBOR plus a margin of .75%. The interest rate margin for
Eurodollar  rate loans may be  decreased by up to .25% or increased by up to .5%
depending on the Company's debt coverage ratio (as defined in the Amended Credit
Facility).  The  interest  rate  on a  money  market  loan  is  determined  by a
competitive bid process among the Syndicate Banks.

     On  September  1, 1995 the  Company  borrowed  an  additional  $155,000,000
through the Term Loan  facility to finance the UDG  Acquisition.  As of November
22, 1995 the Company had outstanding  Term Loans in a principal amount of $246.0
million  bearing  interest at 6.6% with  quarterly  principal  payments of $10.0
million  commencing on December 15, 1995 and a final payment of $16.0 million in
August  2001.  The  Company may prepay the  principal  of the Term Loans and the
Revolving  Loans at its discretion and must prepay the principal with 65% of its
annual excess cash flow,  proceeds  from the sale of certain  assets and the net
proceeds of any issuance of equity.

     The $185  million  Revolving  Loan  facility may be utilized by the Company
either in the form of Revolving  Loans or as Revolving Letters of Credit up to a
maximum of $12.0  million.  Additionally,  availability  of  Revolving  Loans is
subject to a formula  based on the amount of certain  eligible  receivables  and
certain  eligible  inventory and is reduced by the principal amount of Revolving
Letters  of  Credit.   As  of   November   22,   1995  there  were   outstanding



Revolving Loans of $95.0 million  bearing  interest at 6.6%,  undrawn  Revolving
Letters of Credit of $4.7  million and $85.3  million  available  to be drawn in
Revolving  Loans.  The proceeds from the $95.0 million increase in the Revolving
Loans since August 31, 1995 were used to fund the purchase of grapes  during the
1995  grape  harvest  and are  expected  to be repaid  with cash from  operating
activities. The Revolving Loans are required to be prepaid in such amounts that,
for a period of thirty  consecutive  days during the last two fiscal quarters of
each fiscal year, the aggregate amount of Revolving Loans outstanding,  together
with  drawn and  undrawn  Revolving  Letters of  Credit,  will not exceed  $50.0
million.

     The  Barton  Letter  of Credit is an  existing  letter of credit  currently
issued in the face  amount of $25.0  million.  This amount  represents  the full
amount committed under the Amended Credit Facility. On January 1, 1996, the face
amount of the Barton  Letter of Credit  will be reduced to $15  million and will
terminate on December 31, 1996.  The Company must pay  commitment and other fees
based on the undrawn face amount of the Barton Letter of Credit.  In the event a
beneficiary  makes a demand for payment under the Barton  Letter of Credit,  the
Company  must pay to the  issuing  bank the amount of such demand at or prior to
the date the payment is to be made by the issuing bank to the  beneficiary,  and
the  Company  must  inform  the bank if the  Company is  borrowing  to make that
payment.

     Each of the Company's  operating  subsidiaries has guaranteed,  jointly and
severally,  the Company's  obligations  under the Amended Credit  Facility.  The
Syndicate Banks have been given security  interests in substantially  all of the
assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are
subject to customary  secured  lending  covenants  including  those  restricting
additional liens, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the sale of assets,
the payment of dividends,  transactions  with affiliates,  the making of certain
investments  and  certain  other  fundamental   changes.  The  Company  and  its
subsidiaries  are also  required  to maintain a minimum  level of interest  rate
protection  instruments  and the following  financial  covenants above specified
levels:  debt  coverage  ratio;  tangible net worth;  fixed charges  ratio;  and
operating cash flow to interest  expense.  Among the most restrictive  covenants
contained in the Amended Credit Facility,  the Company is required to maintain a
fixed  charges  ratio  not less  than 1.0 to 1.0 at the last day of each  fiscal
quarter for the most recent four quarter periods.

     Senior Subordinated Notes

     In  connection  with the Vintners  Acquisition,  the Company  borrowed $130
million under a subordinated bank loan. The Company repaid the subordinated bank
loan in December,  1993 from the proceeds of the sale of its $130 million  8.75%
Senior  Subordinated  Notes due 2003 (the "Notes")  together with Revolving Loan
borrowing.  The Notes are due in 2003 with a stated  interest  rate of 8.75% per
annum.  Interest  is payable  semi-annually  on June 15 and  December 15 of each
year.  The Notes are  redeemable  at the option of the  Company,  in whole or in
part, on or after December 15, 1998. The Notes are unsecured and subordinated to
the prior  payment  in full of all senior  indebtedness  of the  Company,  which
includes the  Amended  Credit  Facility.  The Notes are  guaranteed, on a senior
subordinated   basis,   by   substantially   all  of  the  Company's   operating
subsidiaries.




     Payments to Former Barton Stockholders

     Pursuant  to the  Barton  Acquisition,  the  Company is  obligated  to make
payments  of up to an  aggregate  amount of $57.3  million to the former  Barton
stockholders  (the  "Barton  Stockholders")  which  payments  are payable over a
three-year period ending November 29, 1996 (the  "Earn-Out").  The first payment
to the Barton Stockholders of $4.0 million was made on December 31, 1993 and the
second  payment of $28.3  million was made on December 30, 1994,  as a result of
satisfaction  of certain  performance  goals and the  achievement of targets for
earnings  before  interest and taxes.  The Company  funded this payment  through
Revolving Loans under its then existing bank Credit Facility.  The third payment
of $10 million  due  November  30, 1995 has been  accrued at August 31, 1995 and
will  be  funded  through  Revolving  Loans.  The  final  remaining  payment  is
contingent  upon Barton  achieving  certain targets for earnings before interest
and taxes in fiscal  1996 and is to be made in an amount up to $15.0  million by
November 29, 1996. Such payment obligations are




fully secured by the Company's  standby  irrevocable  letter of credit under the
Amended Credit Facility  (i.e.,  the Barton Letter of Credit) and are subject to
acceleration in certain events.  All Earn-Out  payments will be accounted for as
additional purchase price for the Barton Acquisition when the contingencies have
been  satisfied  and will be  allocated  based upon the fair market value of the
underlying assets. As a result, as the Earn-Out payments are made,  depreciation
and  amortization  expense will increase in the future over the remaining useful
lives of these assets.

     Vintners Holdback

     At the closing of the  Vintners  Acquisition,  the  Company  held back from
Vintners $8.4 million of the Vintners cash  consideration,  which represents 10%
of the then  estimated net current  assets of Vintners  purchased by the Company
(the  "Held-back  Amount")  and  deposited  an  additional  $2.8  million of the
Vintners cash  consideration into an escrow account to be held until October 15,
1995. Subsequent to the Vintners Acquisition,  the corporation formerly known as
Vintners ("Old  Vintners")  delivered a final closing net asset  statement which
indicated  that the purchase  price  should be reduced by $700,000.  The Company
believes  that the net current  assets as reflected  on the initial  closing net
asset statement were overstated by  approximately  $14 million.  The Company and
Old  Vintners  have been  unable to resolve  their  differences  and the Company
expects that the final net asset  amount will be  determined  by an  independent
accounting  firm (the  "Unaffiliated  Firm") under the terms of the  acquisition
agreement  although  such firm has not yet been  selected  by the  parties.  The
decision of the Unaffiliated Firm will be final and binding upon the parties. In
the event it is  determined  that the  purchase  price should be reduced by less
than $8.4 million then the Company shall pay the difference into the established
escrow.  If the purchase price is to be reduced by more than $8.4 million,  then
the  Company  will  retain the  Held-back  Amount and will be paid the amount in
excess of $8.4  million  out of the escrow  account up to the amount held in the
escrow  account.  Any amounts  remaining  in the escrow  account will be held to
reimburse the Company for any indemnification claims arising out of the Vintners
Acquisition.

     Restructuring Plan

     As a result of the  Restructuring  Plan, the Company  incurred an after-tax
restructuring  charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1994 of $14.9 million,  or
$0.91 per share on a fully diluted basis. Approximately 60% of the restructuring
charge relates to the  revaluation of affected assets which did not involve cash
expenditures. During 1995, the implementation of the Restructuring Plan required
net cash  expenditures of approximately  $28.2 million,  including $19.1 million
for capital  expenditures.  These expenditures were funded through cash provided
by operating activities or through the Credit Facility.

     Other

     The Company  engages in  operations  at its  facilities  for the purpose of
disposing of waste and by-products  generated in its production  process.  These
operations  include  the  treatment  of waste  water to comply  with  regulatory
requirements  prior to disposal in public  facilities or upon property  owned by
the Company or others and do not  constitute  a material  part of the  Company's
overall cost of product sold.  Expenditures  for the purpose of  maintaining  or
improving the Company's waste water treatment  facilities have not constituted a
material part of the Company's maintenance or capital expenditures over the last
three fiscal  years and the Company  does not expect to incur any such  material
expenditures  during its 1996 fiscal year.  During the last three fiscal  years,
the  Company  has not  incurred,  nor does it expect to incur in its 1996 fiscal
year,   any  material   expenditures   related  to   remediation  of  previously
contaminated sites or other non-recurring environmental matters.

     The Company  believes  that cash  provided  by  operating  activities  will
provide sufficient funds to meet all of its anticipated short and long-term debt
service and capital  expenditure  requirements.  The Company is not aware of any
potential  impairment to its  liquidity  and believes  that the Revolving  Loans
available  under the Amended  Credit  Facility  and cash  provided by  operating
activities  will  provide  adequate  resources  to satisfy its working  capital,
liquidity and anticipated capital expenditure requirements for at least the next
four fiscal quarters.




Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                      AND
                            SUPPLEMENTARY SCHEDULES

                                AUGUST 31, 1995

                                                                            Page

The following information is presented in this report:

    Report of Independent Public Accountants................................
    Consolidated Balance Sheets - August 31, 1995 and 1994..................
    Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
        August 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993......................................
    Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity
        for the years ended August 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993..................
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
        August 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993......................................
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..............................
    Selected Financial Data - Five-Year Summary.............................
    Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)....................

Schedules I through V are not submitted  because they are not  applicable or not
required under the rules of Regulation S-X.

Individual  financial statements of the Registrant have been omitted because the
Registrant is primarily an operating  company and no subsidiary  included in the
consolidated financial statements has minority equity interest and/or noncurrent
indebtedness,  not  guaranteed  by the  Registrant,  in  excess  of 5% of  total
consolidated assets.


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Canandaigua Wine
Company,  Inc. (a Delaware  corporation)  and subsidiaries as of August 31, 1995
and  1994,  and the  related  consolidated  statements  of  income,  changes  in
stockholders'  equity and cash  flows for each of the three  years in the period
ended August 31, 1995. These financial  statements and  supplementary  schedules
referred  to below  are the  responsibility  of the  Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to  express  an opinion  on these  financial  statements  and
supplemental schedules based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects,  the financial position of Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.
and  subsidiaries  as of August  31,  1995 and 1994,  and the  results  of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
August 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Our  audits  were  made for the  purpose  of  forming  an  opinion  on the basic
financial  statements  taken as a whole.  The  schedules  listed in the index to
consolidated financial statements and supplementary  schedules are presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission's  rules and
are not a required part of the basic financial statements.  These schedules have
been  subjected  to the auditing  procedures  applied in the audits of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion,  fairly state in all material respects
the  financial  data  required to be set forth  therein in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.



Rochester, New York                                         ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
November 5, 1995











                CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                AUGUST 31, 1995

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

Description of business-
Canandaigua Wine Company,  Inc. and its subsidiaries  (the Company)  operates in
the beverage alcohol industry.  The Company is a producer and supplier of wines,
an importer  and  producer  of beers and  distilled  spirits and a producer  and
supplier  of grape  juice  concentrate  in the United  States.  It  maintains  a
portfolio of over 125 national and regional brands of beverage alcohol which are
distributed by over 1,000 wholesalers  throughout the United States and selected
international  markets. Its beverage alcohol brands are marketed in five general
categories:  table wines,  sparkling  wines,  dessert  wines,  imported beer and
distilled spirits.

Principles of consolidation -
The  consolidated  financial  statements of the Company  include the accounts of
Canandaigua  Wine  Company,  Inc.  and  its  subsidiaries,   all  of  which  are
wholly-owned. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

Management's use of estimates and judgment -
The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect  the  reported  amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities  at the date of the
financial  statements and the reported  amounts of revenues and expenses  during
the reported period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash investments -
Cash  investments  consist of money market funds that are stated at cost,  which
approximates   market  value.   These  investments   amounted  to  approximately
$2,462,000 and $10,000 at August 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments -
To  meet  the  reporting  requirements  of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 107 ("Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments"), the
Company  calculates  the fair value of financial  instruments  and includes this
additional  information in the notes to the financial  statements  when the fair
value is different than the book value of those financial instruments.  When the
fair value is equal to the book value,  no additional  disclosure  is made.  The
Company uses quoted market  prices  whenever  available to calculate  these fair
values.  When quoted market prices are not available,  the Company uses standard
pricing  models for various  types of financial  instruments  (such as forwards,
options,  swaps,  etc.) which take into  account the present  value of estimated
future cash flows.

Interest rate futures and currency forward contracts -
From time to time,  the Company  enters into interest rate futures and a variety
of currency  forward  contracts  in the  management  of  interest  rate risk and
foreign currency transaction  exposure.  Unrealized gains and losses on interest
rate futures are deferred and recognized as a component of interest expense over
the borrowing  period.  Unrealized  gains and losses on foreign currency forward
contracts are deferred and recognized as a component of the related transactions
in the  accompanying  financial  statements.  Discounts  or  premiums on forward
contracts are recognized over the life of the contract.

Inventories -
Inventories  are valued at the lower of cost  (computed in  accordance  with the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) or first-in,  first-out (FIFO) methods) or market. The
percentage of inventories valued using the LIFO method






is 94% and 95% at August 31, 1995 and August 31, 1994, respectively. Replacement
cost  of  the  inventories   determined  on  a  FIFO  basis  is    approximately
$240,895,000  and  $289,209,000  at August 31, 1995 and 1994,  respectively.  At
August 31, 1995 and 1994, the net realizable value of the Company's  inventories
was in excess of $256,811,000 and $301,053,000, respectively.

A substantial portion of barreled whiskey and brandy will not be sold within one
year because of the  duration of the aging  process.  All  barreled  whiskey and
brandy are  classified  as in process  inventories  and are  included in current
assets,  in  accordance  with  industry   practice.   The  Company's  bulk  wine
inventories are also classified as in process inventories.

Warehousing,  insurance,  ad valorem taxes and other carrying charges applicable
to barreled whiskey and brandy held for aging are included in inventory costs.

Elements  of cost  include  materials,  labor and  overhead  and  consist of the
following at August 31:


Property, plant and equipment -
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost. Major additions and betterments
are charged to property  accounts,  while maintenance and repairs are charged to
operations as incurred. The cost of properties sold or otherwise disposed of and
the related  allowance for  depreciation are eliminated from the accounts at the
time of disposal and  resulting  gains and losses are included as a component of
operating income.

Depreciation -
Depreciation  is  computed  primarily  using the  straight-line  method over the
following estimated useful lives:


          Description               Depreciable Life
          -----------               ----------------
Buildings and improvements         10 to 33 1/3 years
Machinery and equipment              7 to 15 years
Motor vehicles                        3 to 7 years

Amortization  of  assets  capitalized  under  capital  leases is  included  with
depreciation expense.  Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method
over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.

Other assets -
Other assets,  which consist of goodwill,  distribution  rights,  agency license
agreements,  trademarks,  deferred  financing  costs,  cash  surrender  value of
officers'  life  insurance  and  other  amounts,  are  stated  at  cost,  net of
accumulated  amortization.  Amortization  is  calculated on a  straight-line  or
effective  interest  basis over periods  ranging  from five to forty  years.  At
August 31, 1995,  the weighted  average of the  remaining  useful lives of these
assets was approximately thirty-five years. The face value of the officers' life
insurance policies totaled $2,852,000 in both 1995 and 1994.







Income taxes -
The Company  uses the  liability  method of  accounting  for income  taxes.  The
liability method accounts for deferred income taxes by applying  statutory rates
in effect at the balance  sheet date to the  difference  between  the  financial
reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities.

Environmental -
Environmental  expenditures  that relate to current  operations  are expensed or
capitalized as appropriate.  Expenditures  that relate to an existing  condition
caused by past  operations,  and which do not  contribute  to  current or future
revenue  generation,  are expensed.  Liabilities are recorded when environmental
assessments  and/or remedial efforts are probable and the cost can be reasonably
estimated.  Generally, the timing of these accruals coincides with completion of
a feasibility  study or the Company's  commitment to a formal plan of action. At
August 31, 1995 and 1994,  liabilities for environmental  costs totaled $550,000
and $100,000, respectively, and are recorded in other accrued liabilities.

Common stock -
The Company has two classes of common  stock:  Class A Common  Stock and Class B
Convertible   Common  Stock.   Class  B  Convertible  Common  Stock  shares  are
convertible  into shares of Class A Common  Stock on a  one-to-one  basis at any
time at the option of the holder.  Holders of Class B  Convertible  Common Stock
are  entitled  to ten  votes  per  share.  Holders  of Class A Common  Stock are
entitled to only one vote per share but are entitled to a cash dividend premium.
If the Company pays a cash  dividend on Class B Convertible  Common Stock,  each
share of Class A Common  Stock  will  receive  an amount  at least  ten  percent
greater  than  the  amount  of the  cash  dividend  per  share  paid on  Class B
Convertible  Common Stock.  In addition,  the Board of Directors may declare and
pay a dividend on Class A Common  Stock  without  paying any dividend on Class B
Convertible Common Stock.

Net income per common and common equivalent share -
Primary  net  income per  common  and  common  equivalent  share is based on the
weighted  average number of common and common  equivalent  shares (stock options
determined  under the treasury  stock  method)  outstanding  during the year for
Class A Common  Stock  and  Class B  Convertible  Common  Stock.  Fully  diluted
earnings per common and common equivalent share assumes the conversion of the 7%
convertible  subordinated debentures under the "if converted method" and assumes
exercise of stock options using the treasury stock method.

Other -
Certain  fiscal 1994 and 1993  balances have been  reclassified  to conform with
current year presentation.

2. ACQUISITIONS:

Barton -
On June 29, 1993, pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement (the Stock
Purchase Agreement) among the Company,  Barton Incorporated  (Barton) and former
Barton  stockholders (the Selling  Stockholders),  the Company acquired from the
Selling  Stockholders  all of the  outstanding  shares of the  capital  stock of
Barton (the Barton  Acquisition),  a marketer  of  imported  beers and  imported
distilled  spirits and a producer and marketer of distilled spirits and domestic
beers.

The aggregate consideration for Barton consisted of approximately $65,510,000 in
cash, one million  shares of the Company's  Class A Common Stock and payments of
up to an  aggregate  amount of  $57,300,000  (the  Earn-Out  Amounts)  which are
payable to the  Selling  Stockholders  in cash over a three year period upon the
satisfaction  of certain  performance  goals.  In  addition,  the  Company  paid
approximately  $1,981,000  of direct  acquisition  costs,  $2,269,000  of direct
financing costs and assumed liabilities of approximately $47,926,000.







The  purchase  price was funded  through a  $50,000,000  term loan (see Note 7),
through $18,835,000 of revolving loans under the Company's Credit Agreement (see
Note 7) and through approximately $925,000 of accrued expenses. In addition, one
million  shares of the Company's  Class A Common Stock were issued at $13.59 per
share, which reflects the closing market price of the stock at the closing date,
discounted  for certain  restrictions  on the issued  shares.  Of these  shares,
428,571 were  delivered to the Selling  Stockholders  and 571,429 were delivered
into escrow to secure the Selling Stockholders'  indemnification  obligations to
the Company.  The 571,429  shares were released from escrow and delivered to the
Selling Stockholders in fiscal 1995.

The Earn-Out Amounts consist of four payments  scheduled to be made over a three
year period  ending  November  29, 1996.  The first  payment of  $4,000,000  was
required to be made to the Selling  Stockholders  upon  satisfaction  of certain
performance  goals.  These goals were  satisfied and this payment was accrued at
August  31,  1993 and was made on  December  31,  1993.  The  second  payment of
$28,300,000 was accrued at August 31, 1994 and was made on December 30, 1994, as
a result of satisfaction of certain performance goals and achievement of targets
for earnings  before interest and taxes at August 31, 1994. The third payment of
$10,000,000  has been accrued at August 31, 1995 and will be made to the Selling
Stockholders on November 30, 1995, as a result of the achievement of targets for
earnings before interest and taxes at August 31, 1995. The remaining  payment of
up to  $15,000,000  is contingent  upon Barton  achieving and exceeding  certain
targets for earnings before interest and taxes and is to be made by November 29,
1996. Such payment  obligations are secured by the Company's standby irrevocable
letter of credit (see Note 7) under the Credit  Agreement in an original maximum
face amount of $28,200,000  and are subject to acceleration in certain events as
defined in the Stock Purchase Agreement. All Earn-Out Amounts have been and will
be accounted for as additional  purchase price for the Barton  Acquisition  when
the  contingency  has been  satisfied  in  accordance  with the  Stock  Purchase
Agreement  and  allocated  based upon the fair  market  value of the  underlying
assets.

Pursuant to Barton's Phantom Stock Plan (the Phantom Stock Plan) effective April
1, 1990 and amended  and  restated  for Units (as  defined in the Phantom  Stock
Plan) granted after March 31, 1992,  certain  participants  received payments at
closing  amounting in the aggregate to $1,959,000 in connection  with the Barton
Acquisition.  Certain other participants will receive payments only upon vesting
in the Phantom  Stock Plan  during  years  subsequent  to the  acquisition.  All
participants under the Phantom Stock Plan may receive additional payments in the
event of satisfaction  of the performance  goals set forth in the Stock Purchase
Agreement and upon release of the shares held in escrow. In January 1995, Barton
paid approximately  $840,000 to participants which included $403,000 relating to
the  satisfaction of  requirements  for releasing stock from escrow and will pay
$403,000 on November  30, 1995.  In the event the maximum  payments are received
under the Stock Purchase Agreement,  the participants will receive an additional
$1,296,000 in connection  therewith.  At August 31, 1995 and 1994,  $581,000 and
$554,000, respectively, has been accrued under the Phantom Stock Plan.

The Barton Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method. Accordingly,
Barton's  assets were recorded at fair market value at the date of  acquisition.
The fair market  value of Barton  totaled  $236,178,000  which was  adjusted for
negative  goodwill of  $62,390,000  and an additional  deferred tax liability of
$29,321,000  based on the  difference  between the fair market value of Barton's
assets and  liabilities as adjusted for allocation of negative  goodwill and the
tax basis of those  assets and  liabilities  which was  allocated  on a pro rata
basis to  noncurrent  assets.  The  results of  operations  of Barton  have been
included  in the  Consolidated  Statements  of  Income  since  the  date  of the
acquisition.

Vintners -
On October 15, 1993,  the Company  acquired  substantially  all the tangible and
intangible assets of Vintners  International Company, Inc. (Vintners) other than
cash and the  Hammondsport  winery (the Vintners  Assets),  and assumed  certain
current liabilities associated with the ongoing business (the Vintners






Acquisition).  Vintners was the United  States' fifth  largest  supplier of wine
with two of the country's most highly recognized brands,  Paul Masson and Taylor
California Cellars.  The wineries acquired from Vintners are the Gonzales winery
in  Gonzales,  California  and the Paul Masson  wineries in Madera and  Soledad,
California.  In addition,  the Company  leased from  Vintners  the  Hammondsport
winery in  Hammondsport,  New York. The lease was for a period of 18 months from
the date of the Vintners  Acquisition.  The lease expired during fiscal 1995.

The  aggregate  purchase  price of  $148,900,000  (the Cash  Consideration)   is
subject to  adjustment  based upon the  determination  of the Final Net  Current
Asset Amount (as defined below). In addition, the Company incurred $8,961,000 of
direct  acquisition and financing costs.  The Company also delivered  options to
Vintners and Household Commercial of California, Inc., one of Vintners' lenders,
to purchase an aggregate of 500,000  shares (the Vintners  Option Shares) of the
Company's Class A Common Stock, at an exercise price per share of $18.25,  which
are  exercisable  at any time until  October 15, 1996.  These  options have been
recorded at $8.42 per share, based upon an independent  appraisal and $4,210,000
has been reflected as a component of additional paid-in capital. On November 18,
1994, 432,067 of the Vintners Option Shares were exercised (see Note 10).

The Cash  Consideration  was funded by the Company pursuant to (i) approximately
$12,600,000 of Revolving  Loans under the Credit  Facility of which  $11,200,000
funded  the Cash  Consideration  and  $1,400,000  funded  the  payment of direct
acquisition costs; (ii) an accrued liability of approximately $7,700,000 for the
holdback described below; and (iii) the $130,000,000 Subordinated Loan (see Note
7).

At closing, the Company held back from the Cash Consideration  approximately 10%
of the then  estimated net current  assets of Vintners  purchased by the Company
and deposited an additional  $2,800,000 of the Cash Consideration into an escrow
pending  consent  of both  parties  for its  release.  If the  amount of the net
current  assets as  determined  after the closing  (the Final Net Current  Asset
Amount)  is  greater  than 90% and less than 100% of the  amount of net  current
assets  estimated at closing (the Estimated Net Current Asset Amount),  then the
Company shall pay into the  established  escrow an amount equal to the Final Net
Current Asset Amount less 90% of the Estimated Net Current Asset Amount.  If the
Final Net Current  Asset Amount is greater than the  Estimated Net Current Asset
Amount,  then, in addition to the payment described above, the Company shall pay
an amount equal to such excess, plus interest from the closing, to Vintners.  If
the Final Net Current Asset Amount is less than 90% of the Estimated Net Current
Asset Amount,  then the Company shall be paid such  deficiency out of the escrow
account.  As of August 31, 1995,  no adjustment  to the  established  escrow was
required and the Final Net Current Asset Amount has not been determined.

The  Vintners   Acquisition  was  accounted  for  using  the  purchase   method;
accordingly,  the Vintners Assets were recorded at fair market value at the date
of acquisition.  The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair market
value of the net assets acquired (goodwill),  $44,151,000, is being amortized on
a  straight-line  basis over forty years.  The results of operations of Vintners
have been  included in the  Consolidated  Statements of Income since the date of
the acquisition.

Almaden/Inglenook -
On August 5, 1994, the Company  acquired the Almaden and Inglenook  brands,  the
fifth and sixth largest selling table wines in the United States,  a grape juice
concentrate  business  and  wineries  in Madera and  Escalon,  California,  from
Heublein, Inc. (Heublein) (the Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition). The Company also
acquired  Belaire  Creek  Cellars,  Chateau La Salle and  Charles Le Franc table
wines, Le Domaine champagne and Almaden,  Hartley and Jacques Bonet brandy.  The
accounts receivable and the accounts payable related to the acquired assets were
not acquired by the Company.

The aggregate  consideration  for the acquired brands and other assets consisted
of $130,600,000 in cash,  assumption of certain current  liabilities and options
to purchase an aggregate of 600,000 shares of Class A






Common Stock (the Almaden Option Shares). Of the Almaden Option Shares,  200,000
are  exercisable  at a price of $30 per  share  and the  remaining  400,000  are
exercisable at a price of $35 per share.  All of the options are  exercisable at
any time  until  August 5, 1996.  The  200,000  and  400,000  options  have been
recorded at $5.83 and $4.19 per share,  respectively,  based upon an independent
appraisal,  and  $2,842,000  has been  reflected  as a component  of  additional
paid-in capital.  The source of the cash payment made at closing,  together with
payment  of  other  costs  and  expenses   required  by  the   Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisition, was financing provided by the Company pursuant to a term loan under
the Credit Facility (see Note 7).

The cash purchase price was subject to adjustment  based upon the  determination
of the Final Net Asset Amount as defined in the Asset Purchase  Agreement;  and,
based upon the final closing statement delivered to the Company by Heublein, was
reduced by $9,297,000 which was paid to the Company in November 1994.

Heublein  also agreed not to compete  with the Company in the United  States and
Canada for a period of five years following the closing of the Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisition  in the  production  and sale of grape juice  concentrate or sale of
packaged  wines bearing the  designation  "Chablis" or "Burgundy"  except where,
among other exceptions, such designations are currently used with certain brands
retained by  Heublein.  Certain  companies  acquired by Heublein,  however,  may
compete directly with the Company.

The  Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method;
accordingly,  the Almaden/Inglenook assets were recorded at fair market value at
the date of acquisition.  During fiscal 1995, the Company  terminated certain of
its long-term grape contracts acquired in connection with the  Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisition.  As a result, the estimated loss reserve at the date of acquisition
was reduced by  approximately  $23,751,000,  with a  corresponding  reduction in
goodwill  (see Note 11). The excess of purchase  price over the  estimated  fair
market  value  of the net  assets  acquired  (goodwill),  $24,028,000,  is being
amortized on a straight-line  basis over forty years.  The results of operations
of Almaden/Inglenook have been included in the Consolidated Statements of Income
since the date of the acquisition.

The following  table sets forth the audited results of operations of the Company
for the year ended  August  31,  1995 as  compared  to the  unaudited  pro forma
results of  operations  of the Company for the year ended August 31,  1994.  The
fiscal  1994  unaudited  pro forma  results of  operations  gives  effect to the
Almaden/Inglenook  Acquisition and the Vintners  Acquisition as if they occurred
on September 1, 1993. The unaudited pro forma results of operations is presented
after giving effect to certain  adjustments  for  depreciation,  amortization of
goodwill,  interest expense on the acquisition  financing and related income tax
effects.  The unaudited pro forma results of operations is based upon  currently
available information and upon certain assumptions that the Company believes are
reasonable  under  the  circumstances.   The  unaudited  pro  forma  results  of
operations  does  not  purport  to  represent  what  the  Company's  results  of
operations would actually have been if the  aforementioned  transactions in fact
had  occurred on such date or to project  the  Company's  financial  position or
results of operations at any future date or for any future period.





3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:

The major  components of property,  plant and equipment are as follows at August
31:


4. OTHER ASSETS:

The major components of other assets are as follows at August 31:






5.  OTHER ACCRUED EXPENSES AND LIABILITIES:

       The major  components of other accrued  expenses and  liabilities  are as
follows at August 31:


6.  OTHER LIABILITIES:

   The major components of other liabilities are as follows at August 31:


7. BORROWINGS:

Borrowings consist of the following at August 31:


Senior credit facility -
The  Company  and a syndicate  of 20 banks (the  Syndicate  Banks) for which The
Chase Manhattan Bank,  N.A. acts as agent,  entered into a Second  Amendment and
Restatement (as amended) dated as of August 5,






1994 of Amendment and  Restatement of Credit  Agreement dated June 29, 1993 (the
Credit  Facility).  At August 31, 1995, the Credit  Facility  provides for (i) a
$91,000,000  Term Loan (the Term Loan)  facility due in September  1998,  (ii) a
$185,000,000  Revolving  Credit (the  Revolving  Credit Loans)  facility,  which
expires in June 2000 and (iii) a $25,000,000  Letter of Credit (Barton Letter of
Credit) facility related to the stockholder  contingent  payments  incurred with
the Barton  Acquisition.  The Company had  outstanding  Term Loan  borrowings of
$91,000,000   and   $177,000,000  at  August  31,  1995  and  August  31,  1994,
respectively.  At August 31, 1995,  the interest rate on the Term Loan was 6.6%.
All  Revolving  Credit Loans were repaid as of August 31, 1995,  and the Company
had  $19,000,000  of borrowings  under this facility at August 31, 1994.  During
fiscal 1995, the Company borrowed an additional $47,000,000 on the Term Loan and
used the proceeds to repay a portion of the outstanding balance on the Revolving
Credit Loans. In addition, the Company prepaid $82,000,000 of the Term Loan from
the proceeds of the Stock  Offering (see Note 10). The Term Loans borrowed under
the Credit Facility may be either base rate loans or Eurodollar rate loans. Base
rate loans have an interest rate equal to the higher of either the Federal Funds
rate plus 0.5% or the prime rate.  Eurodollar  rate loans have an interest  rate
equal to LIBOR  plus a margin of 1.00% and 1.25% at August  31,  1995 and August
31, 1994,  respectively.  The interest rate margin for Eurodollar rate loans may
be  increased  by up to 0.5% and  decreased  by up to 0.125%,  depending  on the
Company's debt coverage ratio (as defined by the Credit  Facility) and long-term
senior  secured  securities'  ratings.  The  principal of the Term Loan is to be
repaid in thirteen quarterly installments of $7,000,000.  The Company may prepay
the principal of the Term Loan and the Revolving  Credit Loans at its discretion
and must  prepay the  principal  with 65% of its  annual  excess  cash flow,  as
defined in the Credit Facility, with proceeds from the sale of certain assets in
excess of  $10,000,000  and the first  $60,000,000  of the net proceeds from any
issuance of equity plus 50% of any net  proceeds in excess of  $60,000,000  (see
Note 10). These  prepayments  must be first applied against regular payments due
with respect to the Term Loans in their inverse order of maturity until the Term
Loans are fully  retired and any further  prepayments  will be applied to reduce
the outstanding Revolving Credit Loans.

The $185,000,000  Revolving Credit Loans available under the Credit Facility may
be utilized by the Company  either in the form of  Revolving  Credit Loans or as
revolving  letters of credit up to a maximum of $12,000,000.  At August 31, 1995
and 1994,  the Company  had  available  to be drawn  Revolving  Credit  Loans of
$172,461,000  and  $163,753,000,  respectively.  As with Term  Loans,  Revolving
Credit  Loans may be either base rate loans or  Eurodollar  rate  loans.  For 30
consecutive  days at any time during the last two  quarters of each fiscal year,
the aggregate  outstanding  principal  amount of Revolving Credit Loans combined
with revolving letters of credit cannot exceed $50,000,000.

The Syndicate Banks have been given security  interests in substantially  all of
the assets of the Company including mortgage liens on certain real property. The
Credit Facility  requires the Company to meet certain covenants and provides for
restrictions  on  mergers,  consolidations  and  sales  of  assets,  payment  of
dividends,  incurring  of other  debt,  liens or  guarantees  and the  making of
investments.  The primary financial  covenants as defined in the Credit Facility
require the  maintenance of minimum  defined  tangible net worth, a debt to cash
flow  coverage  ratio,  a fixed charges  ratio,  maximum  capital  expenditures,
interest  coverage ratio and current ratio minimums.  Among the most restrictive
covenants  contained in the Credit Facility is a requirement to maintain a fixed
charges ratio of not less than 1.0 at the last day of each fiscal quarter.

The Revolving  Credit Loans require  commitment fees totaling .375% per annum on
the  daily  average  unused  balance.   Commitment  fees  totaled  approximately
$635,000, $223,000 and $228,000 in fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

At August 31, 1995, the Company  maintains in accordance  with the Senior Credit
Facility an interest  rate cap  agreement,  in an amount  equal to  $68,000,000,
which protects the Company against  three-month  London Interbank  Offered Rates
exceeding 8.75% per annum and expires in September 1996.






Senior subordinated notes -
During  fiscal  1994,  the  Company   borrowed   $130,000,000   under  a  senior
subordinated  loan agreement  (the  Subordinated  Loan).  The Company repaid the
Subordinated  Loan in  December  1993 from the  proceeds  from the  $130,000,000
Senior  Subordinated  Notes (the Notes)  offering  together with  revolving loan
borrowings.  The Notes are due in 2003 with a stated  interest rate of 8.75% per
annum.  Interest  is payable  semi-annually  on June 15 and  December 15 of each
year. The Notes are unsecured and  subordinated  to the prior payment in full of
all senior indebtedness of the Company, which includes the Credit Facility.  The
Notes are guaranteed,  on a senior  subordinated  basis, by all of the Company's
significant operating subsidiaries.

The Trust Indenture relating to the Notes contains certain covenants, including,
but  not  limited  to,  (i)  limitation  on  indebtedness;  (ii)  limitation  on
restricted  payments;  (iii) limitation on transactions  with  affiliates;  (iv)
limitation on senior  subordinated  indebtedness;  (v) limitation on liens; (vi)
limitation on sale of assets;  (vii) limitation on issuance of guarantees of and
pledges  for  indebtedness;  (viii)  restriction  on  transfer  of assets;  (ix)
limitation on subsidiary  capital  stock;  (x) limitation on the creation of any
restriction on the ability of the Company's  subsidiaries to make  distributions
and other payments;  and (xi)  restrictions on mergers,  consolidations  and the
transfer  of all or  substantially  all of the assets of the  Company to another
person.  The limitation on  indebtedness  covenant is governed by a rolling four
quarter fixed charge coverage ratio covenant requiring a specified minimum.

Convertible subordinated debentures -
On July 23, 1986,  the Company issued  $60,000,000  7% convertible  subordinated
debentures used to expand the Company's  operations through capital expenditures
and acquisitions. The debentures were convertible at any time prior to maturity,
unless  previously  redeemed,  into  Class A Common  Stock of the  Company  at a
conversion  price of $18.22 per share,  subject  to  adjustment  in the event of
future issuances of common stock.

During  fiscal  1993,  an  aggregate  principal  amount  of  $976,000  of  these
debentures was converted to 53,620 shares of Class A Common Stock.

On  October  18,  1993,  the  Company  called  its  Convertible  Debentures  for
redemption  on November  19, 1993 at a  redemption  price of 102.1% plus accrued
interest. Bondholders had until November 19, 1993 to convert their debentures to
common stock;  any  debentures  remaining  unconverted  after that date would be
redeemed for cash in accordance with the terms of the original indenture.

During the period September 1, 1993, through November 19, 1993, debentures in an
aggregate  principal amount of $58,960,000 were converted to 3,235,882 shares of
the Company's Class A Common Stock at a price of $18.22 per share. Debentures in
an aggregate principal amount of approximately  $63,000 were redeemed.  Interest
was accrued on the debentures  until the date of conversion but was forfeited by
the  debenture  holders  upon  conversion.  Accrued  interest  of  approximately
$1,370,000,  net of the  related  tax effect of  $520,000,  was  recorded  as an
addition to additional paid-in capital.

At  the  redemption   date,  the   capitalized   debenture   issuance  costs  of
approximately  $2,246,000,  net of  accumulated  amortization  of  approximately
$677,000 were recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital.

Loans payable -
Loans payable,  secured by officers' life insurance policies,  carry an interest
rate of 5%. The notes carry no due dates and it is management's intention not to
repay the notes during the next fiscal year.

Capitalized lease agreements - Industrial Development Agencies -
Certain  capitalized lease agreements require the Company to make lease payments
equal to the  principal  and  interest  on certain  bonds  issued by  Industrial
Development  Agencies  (IDA's).  The bonds are  secured  by the  leases  and the
related facilities. These transactions have been treated as capital leases  with






the related assets acquired to date of $10,731,000  included in property,  plant
and equipment and the lease commitments included in long-term debt.  Accumulated
amortization of the foregoing assets under capital leases at August 31, 1995 and
1994 is approximately $9,109,000 and $8,456,000, respectively.

Among the provisions under the debenture and lease agreements are covenants that
define  minimum  levels  of  working  capital  and  tangible  net  worth and the
maintenance of certain financial ratios as defined in the debt agreements.

Debt payments -
Principal  payments  required under long-term debt  obligations  during the next
five fiscal years are as follows:

                         Year Ending August 31:
                         -----------------------
                             (in thousands)
                    1996          $           29,132
                    1997                      32,536
                    1998                      28,119
                    1999                       7,119
                    2000                         119
                  Thereafter                 130,967
                                  ------------------
                                  $          227,992
                                  ==================


8. INCOME TAXES:

Deferred   income  taxes  are  provided  to  reflect  the  effect  of  temporary
differences  primarily  related  to:  (i)  using  FIFO  basis to  value  certain
inventories  for income tax purposes and the LIFO basis for financial  reporting
purposes;  (ii) the use of  accelerated  depreciation  methods  for  income  tax
purposes and the straight-line  method for financial reporting  purposes;  (iii)
differences  in the  treatment  of  advertising  expense and other  accruals for
financial  reporting and income tax purposes;  and (iv) differences  between the
financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities.

The provision  for federal and state income taxes  consists of the following for
the years ended August 31:






The components of the deferred income tax (benefit) provision are as follows for
the years ended August 31:


The deferred tax  provision  has been  increased  by  approximately  $45,000 and
$235,000 in fiscal 1994 and 1993, respectively,  for the impact of the change in
the federal statutory rate.

A  reconciliation  of total tax provision to the amount computed by applying the
expected  U.S.  Federal  income tax rate to income  before  provision for income
taxes is as follows for the years ended August 31:



Deferred tax liabilities (assets) are comprised of the following at August 31:

                                             1995            1994
                                             ----            ----
                                                (in thousands)
Depreciation & amortization              $   55,015       $  40,152
LIFO reserve                                  4,644           2,672
Prepaid advertising                           3,107           2,281
Restructuring costs                          (6,133)         (9,482)
Inventory                                     1,718          (3,734)
Other accruals                               (5,027)          2,511
                                         --------------   -------------
                                         $   53,324       $  34,400
                                         ==============   =============






9. PROFIT SHARING RETIREMENT PLANS AND RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLAN:

The Company's profit sharing  retirement  plans,  which cover  substantially all
employees, provide for contributions by the Company in such amounts as the Board
of  Directors  may  annually  determine  and  for  voluntary   contributions  by
employees.  The plans have  qualified as tax-exempt  under the Internal  Revenue
Code and  conform  with the  Employee  Retirement  Income  Security Act of 1974.
Company  contributions to the plans,  including the Barton plan described below,
were  $3,830,000,  $3,414,000,  and  $1,290,000  in fiscal 1995,  1994 and 1993,
respectively.

The Company's retirement savings plan, established pursuant to Section 401(k) of
the Internal Revenue Code, permits  substantially all full-time employees of the
Company  to  defer  a  portion  of  their   compensation  on  a  pretax  basis.
Participants may defer up to 10% of their compensation for the year. The Company
makes a matching contribution of 25% of the first 4% of compensation an employee
defers. Company contributions to this plan were $281,000, $207,000, and $131,000
in fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

In connection with the Barton  Acquisition,  the Company assumed Barton's profit
sharing  plan  which  covers all  salaried  employees  of Barton.  The amount of
Barton's contribution is at the discretion of its Board of Directors, subject to
limitations  of the plan.  Contribution  expense was  $1,430,000 in fiscal 1995,
$1,395,000  in fiscal 1994 and $230,000 from the date of  acquisition  to August
31, 1993.

10.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:

Stock option and stock appreciation right plan -
Canandaigua  Wine  Company,   Inc.  has  in  place  a  Stock  Option  and  Stock
Appreciation Right Plan (the Plan). Under the Plan,  non-qualified stock options
and incentive  stock  options may be granted to purchase and stock  appreciation
rights may be granted with respect to, in the aggregate, not more than 3,000,000
shares of the  Company's  Class A Common Stock.  Options and stock  appreciation
rights  may be issued to  employees,  officers,  or  directors  of the  Company.
Non-employee  directors are eligible to receive only non-qualified stock options
and stock  appreciation  rights.  The option price of any incentive stock option
may not be less than the fair  market  value of the shares on the date of grant.
The exercise price of any non-qualified stock option must equal or exceed 50% of
the  fair  market  value  of the  shares  on the  date  of  grant.  Options  are
exercisable  as  determined  by  the  Compensation  Committee  of the  Board  of
Directors.  Changes in the status of the Plan during fiscal 1995,  1994 and 1993
are summarized as follows:







Employee stock purchase plan -
In fiscal 1989, the Company approved a stock purchase plan under which 1,125,000
shares  of Class A Common  Stock  can be  issued.  Under  the terms of the plan,
eligible  employees may purchase  shares of the  Company's  Class A Common Stock
through payroll  deductions.  The purchase price is the lower of 85% of the fair
market  value of the  stock on the  first  or last day of the  purchase  period.
During fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993,  employees  purchased  28,641 shares,  58,955
shares and 21,071 shares, respectively.

Common stock -
At August 31,  1995,  there were  16,213,427  shares of Class A Common Stock and
3,370,958  shares  of  Class B  Convertible  Common  Stock  outstanding,  net of
treasury stock.

On June 28, 1993,  the Company  approved an increase in the number of authorized
shares  of the  Company's  Class  A  Common  Stock  from  15,000,000  shares  to
60,000,000  shares and an  increase  in the number of  authorized  shares of the
Company's Class B Common Stock from 5,000,000 shares to 20,000,000 shares.

Stock offering -
During November 1994, the Company completed a public offering and sold 3,000,000
shares  of its Class A Common  Stock  (the  Stock  Offering),  resulting  in net
proceeds  to  the  Company  of  approximately  $95,515,000  after  underwriters'
discounts and commissions and expenses. In connection with the offering, 432,067
of the Vintners Option Shares were exercised and the Company  received  proceeds
of $7,885,000.  Under the terms of the amended Credit  Agreement,  approximately
$82,000,000  was used to repay a portion  of the Term Loan  under the  Company's
Credit Facility.  The balance of net proceeds was used to repay Revolving Credit
Loans under the Credit Facility.

11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

Operating leases -
Future payments under noncancelable operating leases having initial or remaining
terms of one year or more are as follows:

             Year Ending August 31:
             ---------------------
                 (in thousands)
             1996               $ 1,103
             1997                 1,078
             1998                   900
             1999                   755
             2000                   694
          Thereafter              2,934
                                --------
                                $ 7,464
                                ========


Rental expense was approximately $4,193,000 in fiscal 1995, $3,318,000 in fiscal
1994 and $1,841,000 in fiscal 1993.

Purchase commitments and contingencies -
The Company has three  agreements  with certain  suppliers  to purchase  blended
Scotch  whisky  through  December  31,  1999.  The  purchase  prices  under  the
agreements are  denominated  in British pounds  sterling and based upon exchange
rates at August 31, 1995,  the Company's  aggregate  future  obligation  will be
approximately  $696,000 to $873,000  for the  contract  expiring on December 31,
1995 and  approximately  $12,417,000 to $15,607,000  for the contracts  expiring
through December 31, 1999.

The Company  has an  agreement  to  purchase  Canadian  blended  whisky  through
February 1997 at a purchase price of approximately $4,344,000.  The Company also
has an agreement to purchase Canadian new distillation whisky (including dumping
charges) of approximately $8,434,000 through December 31, 2002.





     All of the Company's  imported beer products are marketed and sold pursuant
to exclusive  distribution  agreements from the suppliers of these products. The
agreements  have terms that vary and require  compliance  with certain terms and
conditions.  The Company's  agreement to distribute Corona and its other Mexican
beer brands exclusively  throughout 25 states was renewed effective January 1994
and expires in December  1998 with  automatic  renewal  thereafter  for one year
periods from year to year unless  terminated.  The remaining  agreements  expire
through  the year  2003.  Prior to their  expiration,  these  agreements  may be
terminated if the Company fails to meet certain performance  criteria. At August
31,  1995,  the  Company  believes it is in  compliance  with its  agreement  to
distribute Corona and its other Mexican beer brands. The Company has failed, and
may  in  the  future  fail,  to  satisfy  certain  performance  criteria  in its
distribution  agreements.  However, given the Company's long-term  relationships
with its suppliers,  the Company does not believe that these  agreements will be
terminated for such reasons.

In  connection  with  the  Vintners   Acquisition   and  the   Almaden/Inglenook
Acquisition,  the Company  assumed  purchase  contracts with certain growers and
suppliers.  Under the grape  purchase  contracts,  the Company is  committed  to
purchase all grape  production  yielded  from a specified  number of acres for a
period of time ranging up to ten years.  The actual  tonnage and price of grapes
that must be purchased  by the Company will vary each year  depending on certain
factors,  including weather, time of harvest,  overall market conditions and the
agricultural practices and location of the growers and suppliers under contract.

The  Company  purchased  $88,100,000  and  $25,167,000  of  grapes  under  these
contracts  during  fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1994,  respectively.  Based on current
production  yields and published  grape prices,  the Company  estimates that the
aggregate  purchases  under  these  contracts  over  the  remaining  term of the
contracts will be approximately $457,500,000.  During fiscal 1994, in connection
with the Vintners Acquisition and the Almaden/Inglenook Acquisition, the Company
established a reserve for the estimated loss on these firm purchase  commitments
of approximately $62,664,000. During fiscal 1995, the reserve was used to reduce
current grape purchases to market value and to reflect  termination  payments to
cancel contracts with certain growers and adjustments to goodwill. The remaining
reserve for the  estimated  loss on the  remaining  contracts  is  approximately
$18,236,000 at August 31, 1995.

The Company's aggregate  obligations under grape crush and processing  contracts
will be approximately  $8,028,000 over the remaining term of the contracts which
expire through fiscal 1997.

Currency forward contracts -
At August 31, 1994, the Company has open currency forward  contracts to purchase
German marks of $6,674,000 and British pounds of $579,000, both of which matured
within 12 months;  their fair market  values,  based upon August 31, 1994 market
exchange rates, were $7,382,000 and $614,000,  respectively.  At August 31, 1995
there were no currency forward contracts outstanding.

Employment contracts -
The Company has employment  contracts with certain of its executive officers and
certain  other  management  personnel  with  remaining  terms ranging up to five
years.  These agreements  provide for minimum  salaries,  as adjusted for annual
increases,  and may include incentive bonuses based upon attainment of specified
management  goals.  In addition,  these  agreements  also provide for  severance
payments in the event of specified  terminations  of  employment.  The aggregate
commitment for future  compensation and severance,  excluding incentive bonuses,
was  approximately  $5,493,000  as of August 31,  1995,  of which  approximately
$2,468,000 is accrued in other liabilities as of August 31, 1995.

Legal matters -
The Company is subject to litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of
business.  Although the amount of any liability with respect to such  litigation
cannot be determined, in the opinion of management, such liability will not have
a material  adverse  effect on the Company's  financial  condition or results of
operations.

12. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK:

The Company sells its products  principally to wholesalers  for resale to retail
outlets  including  grocery  stores,  package liquor  stores,  club and discount
stores and  restaurants.  Gross  sales to the five  largest  wholesalers  of the
Company  represented 21.6%, 23.7% and 25.1% of the Company's gross sales for the
fiscal years ended August 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  Gross sales to
the Company's  largest  wholesaler  represented 10.6% and 12.3% of the Company's
gross  sales for the fiscal  years  ended  August 31,  1995 and 1994;  no single
wholesaler was responsible for greater than 10% of gross sales during the fiscal
year  ended  August  31,  1993.  Gross  sales  to  the  Company's  five  largest
wholesalers  are expected to continue to represent a significant  portion of the
Company's revenues.  The Company's  arrangements with certain of its wholesalers
may,  generally,  be terminated  by either party with prior notice.  The Company
performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers'  financial  position,  and
management of the Company is of the opinion that any risk of significant loss is
reduced due to the diversity of customers and geographic sales area.







13. RESTRUCTURING PLAN:

The Company  provided for costs to restructure  the operations of its California
wineries (the  Restructuring  Plan) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1994.  Under
the Restructuring Plan, all bottling operations at the Central Cellars winery in
Lodi,  California and substantially all of the branded wine bottling  operations
at the Monterey Cellars winery in Gonzales, California were moved to the Mission
Bell winery  located in Madera,  California.  The Monterey  Cellars  winery will
continue to be used as a crushing,  winemaking and contract  bottling  facility.
The Central  Cellars  winery was closed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995 and
is expected to be sold. In fiscal 1994,  the  Restructuring  Plan reduced income
before  taxes  and net  income by  approximately  $24,005,000  and  $14,883,000,
respectively,  or $.91 per share on a fully diluted  basis.  Of the total pretax
charge in fiscal 1994,  approximately  $16,481,000  was to  recognize  estimated
losses associated with the revaluation of land,  buildings and equipment related
to facilities  described  above,  to their estimated net realizable  value;  and
approximately $7,524,000 relates to severance and other benefits associated with
the  elimination  of 260 jobs. In fiscal 1995,  the  Restructuring  Plan reduced
income  before  income  taxes and net  income by  approximately  $2,238,000  and
$1,376,000,  respectively,  or $.07 per share on a fully diluted basis.  Of this
total pretax charge in fiscal 1995,  $4,288,000 relates to equipment  relocation
and employee hiring and relocation costs,  offset by a decrease of $2,050,000 in
the valuation  reserve as compared to the prior year,  primarily  related to the
land,  buildings and equipment at the Central Cellars  winery.  This decrease in
the  valuation  reserve  was based  upon a bona fide  purchase  offer  which was
accepted  by  the  Company   subsequent  to  year-end.   The  Company   expended
approximately  $19,071,000  in fiscal  1995 for capital  expenditures  to expand
storage capacity and install certain relocated equipment. As of August 31, 1995,
employment  has been  reduced by 161 jobs.  As of August 31, 1995 and 1994,  the
Company had  accrued  approximately  $4,251,000  and  $9,106,000,  respectively,
relating to the Restructuring Plan.

14. ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS:

In March 1995,  Statement of Financial  Accountings  Standards No. 121 (SFAS No.
121),  "Accounting  for the  Impairment of Long-lived  Assets and for Long-lived
Assets to be Disposed  of," was issued.  This  statement  requires  companies to
review  long-lived  assets,  including  certain  intangibles  and  goodwill, for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company will be required
to adopt  SFAS No.  121 in fiscal  1997.  The  Company  believes  the  effect of
adoption will not be material.

In October 1995,  Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 123 (SFAS No.
123),   "Stock-Based   Compensation,"  was  issued.  This  statement  encourages
companies to use the fair value based method to measure compensation cost, which
is then  recognized  over the  service  period  (usually  the  vesting  period).
Companies which continue to measure  compensation cost using the intrinsic value
method as  prescribed  by APB Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock  Issued to
Employees," will be required to disclose pro forma net income and, if presented,
earnings  per share as if the fair  value  based  method had been  applied.  The
Company will be required to adopt SFAS No. 123 on a prospective  basis beginning
in fiscal 1997. The Company  believes that adoption of this statement could have
a  material  impact  but such  impact is  dependent  upon  future  stock  option
activity.

15. SUBSEQUENT EVENT:

UDG Acquisition -
On September 1, 1995, the Company through its  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Barton
Incorporated, acquired certain of the assets of United Distillers Glenmore, Inc.
and  certain  of its  North  American  affiliates  (collectively,  UDG) (the UDG
Acquisition).  The acquisition was made pursuant to an Asset Purchase  Agreement
dated August 29, 1995 (the Purchase  Agreement)  entered into between Barton and
UDG. The  acquisition  included Skol,  Mr.  Boston,  Canadian LTD, Old Thompson,
Kentucky Tavern,  Glenmore and di Amore distilled spirits brands;  rights to the
Fleischmann's  and Chi Chi's distilled  spirits brands under  long term  license
agreements;  the U.S.  rights to Inver  House,  Schenley  and El Toro  distilled
spirits brands;  and related  inventories and other assets. The acquisition also
included two of UDG's production facilities; one located in Owensboro,  Kentucky
and the other located in Albany, Georgia (the Plants). In addition,  pursuant to
the Purchase  Agreement,  the parties  entered into multiyear  agreements  under
which Barton will (i) purchase  various bulk  distilled  spirits brands from UDG
and (ii)  provide  packaging  services  for certain of UDG's  distilled  spirits
brands as well as warehousing services.

The  consideration  for the  acquisition  consisted  of  cash  of  approximately
$144,300,000  (the Closing Amount) which represented the estimated book value of
the  plants,  manufacturing  equipment,  prepaid  expenses  and  inventory  (the
Tangibles)  and the  consideration  for the brands.  The cash purchase price was
reduced by approximately  $3,289,000  based upon a subsequent  adjustment to the
Closing Amount (the Amended Closing Amount). The Purchase Agreement provides for
a Closing  Adjustment to the Amended  Closing Amount,  which Closing  Adjustment
will be paid by Barton or UDG as appropriate.

The following table sets forth the unaudited pro forma  consolidated  results of
operations of the Company for the year ended August 31, 1995 after giving effect
to the UDG Acquisition as if it had occurred on September 1, 1994. The unaudited
pro forma  consolidated  results of operations are presented after giving effect
to certain  adjustments for  depreciation,  amortization  of goodwill,  interest
expense on the  acquisition  financing and related  income tax effects.  The pro
forma  consolidated  results of operations  are based upon  currently  available
information and upon certain  assumptions that the Company  believes  reasonable
under the circumstances. The pro forma consolidated results of operations do not
purport  to  represent  what the  Company's  financial  position  or  results of
operations would actually have been if the  aforementioned  transactions in fact
had  occurred on such date or at the  beginning  of the period  indicated  or to
project the  Company's  financial  position or the results of  operations at any
future date or for any future period.



Amended credit agreement -
In connection with the UDG Acquisition,  the Company amended its Credit Facility
(the Amended Credit  Facility)  effective  September 1, 1995. The Amended Credit
Facility provides for (i) a $246,000,000 Term Loan facility which expires August
2001; (ii) a $185,000,000 Revolving Credit facility which expires June 2001; and
(iii) the previously  existing  $25,000,000  irrevocable Barton Letter of Credit
related to the contingent  payments  incurred with the Barton  Acquisition.  The
Company  borrowed an  additional  $155,000,000  on September 1, 1995 on the Term
Loan facility and used the proceeds in connection with the UDG Acquisition.




The Amended Credit Facility  includes the following  changes:  (i) the margin on
Eurodollar  rate loans  changed to 0.75% and may be  decreased by up to 0.25% or
increased by up to 0.5%,  depending on the Company's debt coverage  ratio;  (ii)
the  Term  Loan  is to be  repaid  in  twenty-three  quarterly  installments  of
$10,000,000 each beginning  December 15, 1995, with a final quarterly payment of
$16,000,000;  and (iii)  certain  fees,  covenants  and  restrictions  have been
eliminated or reflect more favorable  terms  including  lower  commitment  fees,
elimination of restrictions on capital  expenditures and reduced restrictions on
investments and the sale of assets.  In addition,  the amended  Revolving Credit
facility  under the Amended Credit  Facility  provides for money market loans in
addition to the base rate and  Eurodollar  loan  options.  The interest  rate on
money market loans is determined through a competitive bidding process among the
Syndicate Banks.

Legal matters -

In  November  1995,  the  Company  and  certain  of its  officers  were named as
defendants in two separate complaints filed by certain shareholders who claim to
represent a class of  shareholders  alleging  that the  defendants  violated the
federal  securities  laws.  The  complaints  allege  that the  Company's  public
documents and statements were materially  incomplete and as a result  misleading
and that the class members  purchased the Company's common stock at artificially
inflated  prices in  reliance  thereon  and were  thereby  damaged.  The Company
believes  that the  litigation  is  without  merit  and  intends  to  defend  it
vigorously.  This  litigation  has just been commenced and the amount of alleged
damages, if any, cannot be quantified, nor can the outcome of this litigation be
predicted.  Accordingly,   management  cannot  determine  whether  the  ultimate
resolution  of this  litigation  could  have a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's  financial  position and results of operations. 





     The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral
part of this schedule.



Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

     Not Applicable.





                                       PART III


Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The information required by this Item (except for the information regarding
executive  officers  required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K which is included in
Part I hereof in  accordance  with  General  Instruction  G(3)) is  incorporated
herein by reference to the Company's  proxy statement to be issued in connection
with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company to be held on January 18,
1996 under the  heading  "Nomination  and  Election of  Directors,"  which proxy
statement  will be filed within 120 days after the end of the  Company's  fiscal
year.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

     The information  required by this Item is incorporated  herein by reference
to the  Company's  proxy  statement to be issued in  connection  with the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders of the Company to be held on January 18, 1996, under the
heading "Executive Compensation," which proxy statement will be filed within 120
days after the end of the Company's fiscal year.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     The information  required by this Item is incorporated  herein by reference
to the  Company's  proxy  statement to be issued in  connection  with the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders of the Company to be held on January 18, 1996, under the
headings  "Beneficial  Ownership"  and  "Nomination  and Election of Directors,"
which  proxy  statement  will be  filed  within  120 days  after  the end of the
Company's fiscal year.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The information  required by this Item is incorporated  herein by reference
to the  Company's  proxy  statement to be issued in  connection  with the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders of the Company to be held on January 18, 1996, under the
heading "Executive Compensation," which proxy statement will be filed within 120
days after the end of the Company's fiscal year.





                              PART IV


Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)      1.       Financial Statements

                  The following consolidated financial statements of the Company
are submitted herewith: Report of Independent Public Accountants

                  Consolidated Balance Sheets - August 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

                  Consolidated   Statements   of  Income  for  the  years  ended
August 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

                  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for
the years ended August 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

                  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash  Flows for the  years  ended
August 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

         2.       Financial Statement Schedules

                  The following  consolidated financial information is submitted
herewith:

                  Selected Financial Data -- Five-Year Summary

                  Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

All other  schedules  are not submitted  because they are not  applicable or not
required under Regulation S-X or because the required information is included in
the financial statements or notes thereto.

Individual  financial statements of the Registrant have been omitted because the
Registrant is primarily an operating  company and no subsidiary  included in the
consolidated financial statements has minority




equity  interests  and/or  non-current  indebtedness,   not  guaranteed  by  the
Registrant, in excess of 5% of total consolidated assets.

         3.       Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K

                  The  following  exhibits  are filed  herewith or  incorporated
herein by reference, as indicated:

                  2.1 Asset Purchase  Agreement dated August 2, 1991 between the
Registrant  and Guild  Wineries  and  Distilleries,  as assigned to an acquiring
subsidiary  (filed as Exhibit 2(a) to the Registrant's  Report on Form 8-K dated
October 1, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  2.2 Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated April 27, 1993 among the
Registrant,  Barton  Incorporated and the  stockholders of Barton  Incorporated,
Amendment No. 1 to Stock Purchase Agreement dated May 3, 1993, and Amendment No.
2 to Stock Purchase  Agreement dated June 29, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 2(a) to the
Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated June 29,  1993 and  incorporated
herein by reference).
                  2.3 Asset Sale Agreement  dated September 14, 1993 between the
Registrant and Vintners  International  Company,  Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2(a) to
the  Registrant's  Current  Report  on Form  8-K  dated  October  15,  1993  and
incorporated herein by reference).
                  2.4  Amendment  dated as of  October  14,  1993 to Asset  Sale
Agreement dated as of September 14, 1993 by and between  Vintners  International
Company,  Inc. and the  Registrant  (filed as Exhibit  2(b) to the  Registrant's
Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  October 15, 1993 and  incorporated  herein by
reference).
                  2.5 Amendment No. 2 dated as of January 18, 1994 to Asset Sale
Agreement dated as of September 14, 1993 by and between  Vintners  International
Company,  Inc.  and the  Registrant  (filed as Exhibit  2.1 to the  Registrant's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 1994 and
incorporated herein by reference).
                  2.6 Asset Purchase  Agreement dated August 3, 1994 between the
Registrant and Heublein, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2(a) to the Registrant's Current
Report on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  2.7  Amendment  dated  November  8,  1994  to  Asset  Purchase
Agreement  between  Heublein,  Inc. and Registrant  (filed as Exhibit 2.2 to the
Registrant's  Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Amendment No. 2) (Registration
No.  33-55997) filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission on November 8,
1994 and  incorporated  herein by reference).
                  2.8  Amendment  dated  November  18,  1994 to  Asset  Purchase
Agreement between Heublein, Inc. and the Registrant (filed as Exhibit 2.8 to the
Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  August 31,
1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  2.9 Asset  Purchase  Agreement  among Barton  Incorporated  (a
wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Registrant),  United Distillers Glenmore,  Inc.,
Schenley   Industries  Inc.,  Medley  Distilling   Company,   United  Distillers
Manufacturing,  Inc.,  and The Viking  Distillery,  Inc.,  dated August 29, 1995
(filed as Exhibit 2(a) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
August 29, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference).



                  3.1  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of the  Company
(filed as Exhibit  3.1 to the  Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  3.2 Amended  and  Restated  By-laws of the  Company  (filed as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration
No. 33-56557) and incorporated herein by reference).
                  4.1  Specimen of  Certificate  of Class A Common  Stock of the
Company (filed as Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
8-A dated April 28, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  4.2  Specimen of  Certificate  of Class B Common  Stock of the
Company (filed as Exhibit 1.2 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
8-A dated April 28, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  4.3  Indenture  dated  as  of  December  27,  1993  among  the
Registrant,  its  Subsidiaries  and  Chemical  Bank (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November
30, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  4.4 First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of August 3, 1994
among the Registrant, Canandaigua West, Inc. and Chemical Bank (filed as Exhibit
4.5 to the Registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8  (Registration  No.
33-56557) and  incorporated  herein by  reference).
                  4.5 Second   Supplemental  Indenture  dated  August 25,  1995,
among the Registrant, V Acquisition  Corp. (a Subsidiary of the  Registrant  now
known as The Viking Distillery, Inc.) and Chemical Bank (filed herewith).
                  10.1 The Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc. Stock Option and Stock
Appreciation  Right Plan (filed as Appendix B of the Company's  Definitive Proxy
Statement dated December 23, 1987 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.2  Amendment No. 1 to the  Canandaigua  Wine Company,  Inc.
Stock  Option and Stock  Appreciation  Right Plan (filed as Exhibit  10.1 to the
Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1992
and incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.3  Amendment No. 2 to the  Canandaigua  Wine Company,  Inc.
Stock  Option  and Stock  Appreciation  Right  Plan  (filed as Exhibit 28 to the
Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal  quarter ended November
30, 1992 and  incorporated  herein by  reference).
                  10.4  Amendment No. 3 to the  Canandaigua  Wine Company,  Inc.
Stock  Option and Stock  Appreciation  Right Plan (filed as Exhibit  10.4 to the
Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  August 31,
1993  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).
                  10.5  Amendment No. 4 to the  Canandaigua  Wine Company,  Inc.
Stock  Option and Stock  Appreciation  Right Plan (filed as Exhibit  10.1 to the
Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November
30, 1993 and  incorporated  herein by  reference).
                  10.6  Amendment No. 5 to the  Canandaigua  Wine Company,  Inc.
Stock  Option and Stock  Appreciation  Right Plan (filed as Exhibit  10.1 to the
Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February
28, 1994 and  incorporated  herein by reference).
                  10.7 Amendment  No. 6 to the  Canandaigua  Wine Company,  Inc.
Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed herewith).
                  10.8  Employment  Agreement  between Barton  Incorporated  and
Ellis M.  Goodman  dated as of  October  1,  1991 as  amended  by  Amendment  to
Employment  Agreement between Barton  Incorporated and Ellis M. Goodman dated as
of June 29, 1993 (filed as Exhibit  10.5 to the  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
Form



                  10-K  for  the  fiscal   year  ended   August  31,   1993  and
incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.9 Barton Incorporated  Management  Incentive Plan (filed as
Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.10 Ellis M. Goodman Split Dollar Insurance Agreement (filed
as Exhibit 10.7 to the  Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.11 Barton Brands, Ltd. Deferred Compensation Plan (filed as
Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.12 Marvin Sands Split Dollar Insurance  Agreement (filed as
Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.13 Amendment and  Restatement  dated as of June 29, 1993 of
Credit  Agreement among the Registrant,  its  subsidiaries and certain banks for
which The Chase  Manhattan Bank (National  Association)  acts as agent (filed as
Exhibit 2(b) to the Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 29, 1993
and incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.14  Amendment  No.  1  dated  as of  October  15,  1993  to
Amendment and  Restatement  dated as of June 29, 1993 of Credit  Agreement among
the Registrant, its subsidiaries and certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan
Bank  (National  Association)  acts  as  agent  (filed  as  Exhibit  2(c) to the
Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 15, 1993 and incorporated
herein by reference).
                  10.15 Senior  Subordinated  Loan Agreement dated as of October
15, 1993 among the Registrant,  its subsidiaries and certain banks for which The
Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) acts as agent (filed as Exhibit 2(d)
to the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K  dated  October  15,  1993 and
incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.16 Second  Amendment and Restatement  dated as of August 5,
1994 of Amendment and Restatement of Credit  Agreement dated as of June 29, 1993
among the  Registrant,  its  subsidiaries  and certain banks for which The Chase
Manhattan  Bank (National  Association)  acts as agent (filed as Exhibit 2(b) to
the  Registrant's   Current  Report  on  Form  8-K  dated  August  5,  1994  and
incorporated herein by reference).
                  10.17  Amendment  No. 1 (dated as of August 5, 1994) to Second
Amendment  and  Restatement  dated  as  of  August  5,  1994  of  Amendment  and
Restatement of Credit  Agreement dated as of June 29, 1993 among the Registrant,
its  subsidiaries and certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank (National
Association)  acts as agent (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the  Registrant's  Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  August 31, 1994 and  incorporated
herein by reference).
                  10.18 Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement  between the
Registrant,  its principal operating  subsidiaries,  and certain banks for which
The Chase Manhattan Bank (National  Association) acts as  Administrative  Agent,
dated as of September 1, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 2(b) to the Registrant's Current
Report on Form 8-K, dated August 29, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference).
                  11.1 Statement of  Computation  of Per Share  Earnings  (filed
herewith).
                  21.1 Subsidiaries of Registrant (filed herewith).
                  23.1 Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP (filed herewith).
                  27.1 Financial Data Schedule (filed herewith).




(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

No  Current  Reports on Form 8-K were filed  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission during the fourth quarter of the Company's 1995 fiscal year.




                                     SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                            CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC.



Dated:  November 29, 1995                   By: /s/ Richard Sands
                                                --------------------------------
                                                Richard Sands,
                                                President and Chief
                                                Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ Richard Sands                   /s/ Lynn K. Fetterman
- -------------------------------     --------------------------------------------
Richard Sands, President, Chief     Lynn K. Fetterman, Senior Vice President and
Executive Officer and Director      Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial
(Principal Executive Officer)       and Principal Accounting Officer)
Dated:  November 29, 1995           Dated:  November 29, 1995


/s/ Marvin Sands                     /s/ Robert Sands
- -----------------------------------  -------------------------------------------
Marvin Sands, Chairman of the Board  Robert Sands, Director
Dated:  November 29, 1995            Dated:  November 29, 1995


/s/ George Bresler                   /s/ Ellis M. Goodman
- -----------------------------------  -------------------------------------------
George Bresler, Director             Ellis M. Goodman, Director
Dated:  November 29, 1995            Dated:  November 29, 1995

/s/ James A. Locke, III              /s/ Bertram E. Silk
- -----------------------------------  -------------------------------------------
James A. Locke, III, Director        Bertram E. Silk, Director
Dated:  November 29, 1995            Dated:  November 29, 1995

/s/ Sir Harry Solomon
- -----------------------------------
Sir Harry Solomon, Director
Dated:  November 29, 1995




                            INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit No.                                                


     2.1 Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated August 2, 1991 between the Registrant
and Guild  Wineries and  Distilleries,  as assigned to an  acquiring  subsidiary
(filed as Exhibit 2(a) to the  Registrant's  Report on Form 8-K dated October 1,
1991 and incorporated herein by reference).
     2.2 Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated April 27, 1993 among the  Registrant,
Barton Incorporated and the stockholders of Barton Incorporated, Amendment No. 1
to Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated May 3, 1993,  and  Amendment No. 2 to Stock
Purchase   Agreement  dated  June  29,  1993  (filed  as  Exhibit  2(a)  to  the
Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated June 29,  1993 and  incorporated
herein by reference).
    2.3 Asset Sale Agreement dated September 14, 1993 between the Registrant and
Vintners  International Company, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2(a) to the Registrant's
Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  October 15, 1993 and  incorporated  herein by
reference).
    2.4 Amendment  dated as of October 14, 1993 to Asset Sale Agreement dated as
of September 14, 1993 by and between Vintners  International  Company,  Inc. and
the Registrant (filed as Exhibit 2(b) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form
8-K dated October 15, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
    2.5        Amendment  No.  2 dated as of  January  18,  1994 to  Asset  Sale
Agreement dated as of September 14, 1993 by and between  Vintners  International
Company,  Inc.  and the  Registrant  (filed as Exhibit  2.1 to the  Registrant's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 1994 and
incorporated herein by reference).
   2.6 Asset Purchase  Agreement dated August 3, 1994 between the Registrant and
Heublein, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 2(a) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form
8-K dated August 5, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
   2.7         Amendment  dated  November  8, 1994 to Asset  Purchase  Agreement
between Heublein,  Inc. and Registrant (filed as Exhibit 2.2 to the Registrant's
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Amendment No. 2) (Registration No. 33-55997)
filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  on  November  8, 1994 and
incorporated  herein by  reference).
   2.8 Amendment  dated  November 18, 1994 to Asset Purchase  Agreement  between
Heublein,Inc.  and the  Registrant  (filed as  Exhibit  2.8 to the  Registrant's
Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended  August  31,  1994 and
incorporated herein by reference).
   2.9 Asset  Purchase  Agreement  among  Barton  Incorporated  (a  wholly-owned
subsidiary  of the  Registrant),  United  Distillers  Glenmore,  Inc.,  Schenley
Industries Inc., Medley  Distilling  Company,  United Distillers  Manufacturing,
Inc., and The Viking  Distillery,  Inc., dated August 29, 1995 (filed as Exhibit
2(a) to the  Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 29, 1995 and
incorporated herein by reference).



 3.1 Restated  Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.1
to the Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August
31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
 3.2 Amended and  Restated  By-laws of the Company  (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the
Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No.
33-56557) and incorporated herein by reference).
 4.1 Specimen of  Certificate  of Class A Common Stock of the Company  (filed as
Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form 8-A dated April
28, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference).
 4.2 Specimen of  Certificate  of Class B Common Stock of the Company  (filed as
Exhibit 1.2 to the Registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form 8-A dated April
28, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference).
 4.3  Indenture  dated  as of  December  27,  1993  among  the  Registrant,  its
Subsidiaries  and  Chemical  Bank  (filed  as  Exhibit  4.1 to the  Registrant's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 1993 and
incorporated herein by reference).
4.4  First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as  of  August  3,  1994  among  the
Registrant,  Canandaigua  West,  Inc. and Chemical Bank (filed as Exhibit 4.5 to
the Registrant's  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-56557)
and incorporated herein by reference).  
4.5 Second Supplemental Indenture dated August 25, 1995, among the Registrant, V
Acquisition  Corp.  (a  Subsidiary  of the  Registrant  now known as The  Viking
Distillery, Inc.) and Chemical Bank (filed herewith).
 10.4 Amendment No. 3 to the Canandaigua Wine Company,  Inc. Stock Option and
Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's  Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  August 31, 1993 and  incorporated
herein by reference).
  10.5 Amendment No. 4 to the Canandaigua Wine Company,  Inc. Stock Option and
Stock  Appreciation  Right  Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit  10.1 to the  Registrant's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 1993 and
incorporated herein by reference).
  10.6 Amendment No. 5 to the Canandaigua Wine Company,  Inc. Stock Option and
Stock  Appreciation  Right  Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit  10.1 to the  Registrant's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 1994 and
incorporated herein by reference).
 10.7 Amendment No. 6 to the Canandaigua Wine Company,  Inc. Stock Option and
Stock Appreciation Right Plan (filed herewith).
 10.8 Employment  Agreement between Barton  Incorporated and Ellis M. Goodman
dated as of  October 1, 1991 as amended by  Amendment  to  Employment  Agreement
between  Barton  Incorporated  and Ellis M.  Goodman  dated as of June 29,  1993
(filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the  Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
 10.9 Barton Incorporated Management Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31,
1993 and incorporated herein by reference).

  10.10 Ellis M. Goodman Split Dollar  Insurance  Agreement  (filed as Exhibit
10.7 to the  Registrant's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
August 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
 10.11 Barton Brands, Ltd. Deferred  Compensation Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.8
to the Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August
31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
 10.12 Marvin Sands Split Dollar  Insurance  Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.9
to the Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August
31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
 10.13  Amendment  and  Restatement  dated  as of June  29,  1993  of  Credit
Agreement among the Registrant, its subsidiaries and certain banks for which The
Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) acts as agent (filed as Exhibit 2(b)
to the  Registrant's  Current  Report  on Form  8-K  dated  June  29,  1993  and
incorporated herein by reference).
 10.14  Amendment  No.  1 dated  as of  October  15,  1993 to  Amendment  and
Restatement  dated as of June 29, 1993 of Credit Agreement among the Registrant,
its  subsidiaries and certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank (National
Association)  acts as agent (filed as Exhibit 2(c) to the  Registrant's  Current
Report on Form 8-K dated October 15, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).
 10.15 Senior  Subordinated Loan Agreement dated as of October 15, 1993 among
the Registrant, its subsidiaries and certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan
Bank  (National  Association)  acts  as  agent  (filed  as  Exhibit  2(d) to the
Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 15, 1993 and incorporated
herein by reference).
 10.16  Second  Amendment  and  Restatement  dated as of  August  5,  1994 of
Amendment and  Restatement of Credit  Agreement  dated as of June 29, 1993 among
the Registrant, its subsidiaries and certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan
Bank  (National  Association)  acts  as  agent  (filed  as  Exhibit  2(b) to the
Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated August 5, 1994 and  incorporated
herein by reference).
 10.17  Amendment No. 1 (dated as of August 5, 1994) to Second  Amendment and
Restatement  dated as of August 5, 1994 of Amendment and  Restatement  of Credit
Agreement dated as of June 29, 1993 among the Registrant,  its  subsidiaries and
certain banks for which The Chase Manhattan Bank (National  Association) acts as
agent (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended August 31, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
 10.18 Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement  between the Registrant,  its
principal  operating  subsidiaries,  and  certain  banks  for  which  The  Chase
Manhattan Bank (National  Association) acts as Administrative Agent, dated as of
September 1, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 2(b) to the  Registrant's  Current Report on
Form 8-K, dated August 29, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference).
  11.1 Statement of Computation of Per Share Earnings (filed  herewith).
  21.1 Subsidiaries of Registrant (filed herewith).
  23.1 Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP (filed herewith).
  27.1 Financial Data Schedule (filed herewith).



                                   EXHIBIT 4.5

     Second Supplemental  Indenture (the  "Supplement"),  dated as of August 25,
1995, is entered into by and among  Canandaigua  Wine Company,  Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"),  V Acquisition Corp., a Georgia  corporation and an
indirect  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of the Company (the "New  Guarantor"),  and
Chemical Bank, a New York corporation, as Trustee (the "Trustee").

                   Recitals of the Company and the New Guarantor

     Whereas,  the Company,  the  Guarantors  and the Trustee have  executed and
delivered an Indenture,  dated as of December 27, 1993, as  supplemented,  among
the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee (the "Indenture")  providing for the
issuance  by the  Company  of  $130,000,000  aggregate  principal  amount of the
Company's  8 3/4%  Senior  Subordinated  Notes due 2003 (the  "Securities")  and
pursuant  to  which  the  Guarantors  have  agreed  to  guarantee,  jointly  and
severally,  the  full  and  punctual  payment  and  performance  when due of all
Indenture Obligations.

     Whereas,  the New Guarantor has become a Subsidiary and pursuant to Section
1014(b) of the  Indenture  is  obligated  to enter into the  Supplement  thereby
guaranteeing  the punctual  payment and  performance  when due of all  Indenture
Obligations;

     Whereas,  pursuant to Section 901(e) of the Indenture, the Company, the New
Guarantor and the Trustee may enter into this Supplement  without the consent of
any Holder;

     Whereas,  the  execution  and  delivery of this  Supplement  have been duly
authorized by a Board  Resolution of the  respective  Boards of Directors of the
Company and the New Guarantor; and

     Whereas,  all conditions and requirements  necessary to make the Supplement
valid and  binding  upon the  Company  and the New  Guarantor,  and  enforceable
against the Company and the New  Guarantor in  accordance  with its terms,  have
been performed and fulfilled;

     Now Therefore,  in consideration of the above premises, each of the parties
hereto agrees, for the benefit of the others and for the equal and proportionate
benefit of the Holders of the Securities, as follows:

                               Article One
                            The New Guarantee

     Section 101. For value  received,  the New  Guarantor,  in accordance  with
Article  Fourteen  of the  Indenture,  hereby  absolutely,  unconditionally  and
irrevocably guarantees (the "New Guarantee"), jointly and severally among itself
and the Guarantors, to the Trustee and the Holders, as if the New Guarantor were
the principal debtor, the punctual payment and



performance when due of all Indenture Obligations (which for purposes of the New
Guarantee shall also be deemed to include all commissions,  fees, charges, costs
and other expenses  (including  reasonable  legal fees and  disbursements of one
counsel)  arising out of or incurred by the Trustee or the Holders in connection
with the enforcement of this New Guarantee). The agreements made and obligations
assumed  hereunder by the New Guarantor shall  constitute and shall be deemed to
constitute  a  Guarantee  under  the  Indenture  and  for  all  purposes  of the
Indenture,  and New Guarantor  shall be considered a Subsidiary for all purposes
of the Indenture as if it was originally named therein as a Subsidiary.

     Section 102. The New Guarantee shall be automatically  and  unconditionally
released and  discharged  upon the occurrence of the events set forth in Section
1014(c) of the Indenture.

     Section  103.  New  Guarantor  hereby  waives,  and will not in any  manner
whatsoever,   claim  or  take  the  benefit  or  advantage  of,  any  rights  of
reimbursement,  indemnity or subrogation or any other rights against the Company
or any other  Subsidiary as a result of any payment by New  Guarantor  under its
Guarantee under the Indenture.

                                  Article Two
                                 Miscellaneous

     Section 201. Except as otherwise  expressly  provided or unless the context
otherwise  requires,  all terms used herein  which are defined in the  Indenture
shall  have  the  meanings  assigned  to  them  in  the  Indenture.   Except  as
supplemented  hereby,  the  Indenture  (including  the  Guarantees  incorporated
therein) and the Securities  are in all respects  ratified and confirmed and all
the terms and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect.

     Section 202. This Supplement shall be effective as of the close of business
on the date hereof.

     Section 203. The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements
of the Company and the New Guarantors, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility
for their  correctness.  The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity
or sufficiency of this Supplement.

     Section  204.  This  Supplement  shall  be  governed  by and  construed  in
accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction  which govern the Indenture and its
construction.

     Section 205. This  Supplement may be executed in any number of counterparts
each of  which  shall  be an  original,  but such  counterparts  shall  together
constitute but one and the same instrument.






     In Witness  Whereof,  the parties hereto have caused this  Supplement to be
duly  executed  and  their  respective  seals to be  affixed  hereunto  and duly
attested all as of the day and year first above written.

                                      Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc.


[Corporate Seal]                      By:   s/Lynn Fetterman
                                      Name: Lynn Fetterman
                                      Title: Senior Vice President and Chief
                                             Financial Officer

Attest:


s/David Sorce
Assistant Secretary


                                      V Acquisition Corp.


[Corporate Seal]                      By:   s/Fred Mardell
                                      Name: Fred Mardell
                                      Title:

Attest:


s/Elizabeth Kutyla
Assistant Secretary


                                      Chemical Bank


[Corporate Seal]                      By:   s/W.B. Dodge
                                      Name: W.B. Dodge
                                      Title: Vice President

Attest:


s/Gloria G. McKeever
Assistant Secretary










                                  EXHIBIT 10.7

                                AMENDMENT NO. 6
                                     TO THE
                         CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC.
                 STOCK OPTION AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT PLAN


Pursuant to Paragraph 15 of the Canandaigua Wine Company,  Inc. Stock Option and
Stock Appreciation Right Plan (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors hereby amends
the Plan, effective upon the date hereof, as set forth below.

Paragraph  5(c) of the  Plan  is  hereby  amended  and  restated  to read in its
entirety as follows:

        (c)  Exercise.  Each  option,  or  any  installment  thereof,  shall  be
        exercised,  whether in whole or in part, by giving  irrevocable  written
        notice to the Company at its principal office,  specifying the number of
        Shares  purchased and the purchase price being paid, and  accompanied by
        the payment of the purchase  price. A Participant may pay for the Shares
        subject to the option with cash, a certified  check or a bank  cashier's
        check  payable  to the  order  of  the  Company.  Alternatively,  at the
        Company's sole option he may be permitted to pay for the Shares in whole
        or in part, by the delivery of the Shares  already  owned by him,  which
        will be accepted  in exchange at their fair market  value on the date of
        exercise,  or  alternatively,  by delivery to the Company of the written
        notice  described  above,  together with  irrevocable  instructions to a
        broker/dealer  to sell or  margin,  or sell  and  margin,  a  sufficient
        portion of the Shares  and  deliver  the sale  proceeds  or margin  loan
        proceeds directly to the Company to pay the purchase price. Certificates
        representing the Shares purchased by the Participant  shall be issued as
        soon as reasonably  practicable  after the Participant has complied with
        the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Canandaigua Wine Company, Inc. has caused the instrument to
be executed on August 10, 1995.


                                     CANANDAIGUA WINE COMPANY, INC.



                                      /s/Richard Sands
                                      Richard Sands, President












                             EXHIBIT 21.1


State of Incorporation                       Subsidiary
    New York                           Batavia Wine Cellars, Inc.
    Delaware                           Bisceglia Brothers Wine Co.
    California                         California Products Company
    New York                           Guild Wineries & Distilleries, Inc.
    South Carolina                     Tenner Brothers, Inc.
    New York                           Widmer's Wine Cellars, Inc.
    Delaware                           Barton Incorporated
    Delaware                           Barton Brands, Ltd.
    Maryland                           Barton Beers, Ltd.
    Connecticut                        Barton Brands of California, Inc.
    Georgia                            Barton Brands of Georgia, Inc.
    New York                           Barton Distillers Import Corp.
    Delaware                           Barton Financial Corporation
    Wisconsin                          Stevens Point Beverage Co.
    New York                           Monarch Wine Company, Limited Partnership
    Illinois                           Barton Management, Inc.
    U.S. Virgin Islands                Barton Foreign Sales Corporation
    New York                           Vintners International Company, Inc.
    New York                           Canandaigua West, Inc.
    Georgia                            The Viking Distillery, Inc.

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1

               CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
report  included  in  this  Form  10-K  into  the  Company's   previously  filed
Registration Statements on Form S-8 file numbers 33-26694 and 33-56557.

                                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Rochester New York
November 29, 1995




