Item 1.BUSINESS



Company Overview



Archer Daniels Midland Company (the Company) was incorporated in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels Linseed Co. founded in 1902.  The Company is one of the world’s largest processors of oilseeds, corn, wheat, cocoa, and other agricultural commodities and is a leading manufacturer of vegetable oil and protein meal, corn sweeteners, flour, biodiesel, ethanol, and other value-added food and feed ingredients.  The Company also has an extensive grain elevator and transportation network to procure, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, as well as processed agricultural commodities.



During the past five years, the Company has experienced significant growth, spending approximately $7.9 billion for construction of new plants, maintenance and expansions of existing plants, and the acquisitions of plants and transportation equipment.  The Company has recently completed construction of a coal cogeneration facility and two corn dry milling plants which will increase the Company’s annual ethanol production capacity by 600 million gallons to 1.8 billion gallons.  In addition, the Company has completed the initial phase of its polyhydroxy alkanoate (PHA) bioplastic production facility, and continues to work through start up at its propylene/ethylene glycol production facility and a new cocoa processing facility.  The Company currently expects to spend approximately $1.5 billion to comple
te the facilities under construction and other approved capital projects through calendar year 2013.  There have been no significant dispositions during the last five years.



Segment Descriptions



The Company’s operations are classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services.  Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered.  The Company’s remaining operations, which include wheat processing, cocoa processing, and its financial business units are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other.  Financial information with respect to the Company’s reportable business segments is set forth in “Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



Oilseeds Processing





The Company produces a wide range of edible soy protein products including soy flour, soy grits, soy protein concentrates and soy isolates that are used in processed meats, baked foods, nutritional products, snacks, and dairy and meat analogs.



From co-products of oilseeds, the Company produces natural source vitamin E, tocopherol antioxidants and phytosterols which are marketed to the dietary supplement and food industry.  The Company produces soy isoflavones, a dietary supplement, from a co-product of edible soy processing.









Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Golden Peanut Company LLC, a joint venture between the Company and Alimenta (U.S.A.), Inc., is a major supplier of peanuts and peanut derived ingredients to both the domestic and export markets.  The Company has a 50% ownership interest in this joint venture.



The Company has a 50% interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between the Company and Princes Foods to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom.  The Company recently announced the formation of a new edible oils joint venture with Princes Foods in Poland.



Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between the Company and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America.  The Company has a 50% ownership interest in this joint venture.



The Company has a 16.4% ownership interest in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly listed company.  Wilmar, a leading agribusiness group in Asia, is the largest global processor and merchandiser of palm and lauric oils, and a major oil palm plantation owner.  In China, Wilmar is a leading consumer edible oils producer, oilseeds crusher, edible oils refiner, and specialty fats and oleochemicals manufacturer.  In India, Wilmar is one of the largest edible oils refiners and a leading producer of consumer edible oils.



The Company is a major supplier of agricultural commodity raw materials to Edible Oils Limited, Stratas Foods LLC, and Wilmar.



Corn Processing



The Company’s Corn Processing segment is engaged in corn wet milling and dry milling activities, primarily in the United States, related to its production of ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including syrup, starch, glucose, dextrose, and sweeteners.  Dextrose is also used by the Company as a feedstock for its bioproducts operations.  Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, is produced for use as animal feed ingredients.  Corn germ, a by-product of the wet milling process, is further processed as an oilseed into vegetable oil and protein meal.



By fermentation of dextrose, the Corn Processing segment produces alcohol, amino acids, and other specialty food and animal feed ingredients.  Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company to beverage grade or for industrial use as ethanol.  In gasoline, ethanol increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate.  Amino acids, such as lysine and threonine, are vital compounds used in swine feeds to produce leaner animals and in poultry feeds to enhance the speed and efficiency of poultry production.  The Corn Processing segment also produces, by fermentation, astaxanthin, a product used in aquaculture to enhance flesh coloration.  The Corn Processing segment produces citric and lactic acids, lactates, sorbitol, xanthan gum and glycols which are used in various food and industrial prod
ucts.



Almidones Mexicanos S.A., in which the Company has a 50% interest, operates a wet corn milling plant in Mexico.



Eaststarch C.V. (Netherlands), in which the Company has a 50% interest, owns interests in companies that operate wet corn milling plants in Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia, and Turkey.



The Company has a 50% interest in Telles, LLC (Telles), a joint venture between the Company and Metabolix to market and sell PHA, which is being produced in a facility owned by the Company.  The first phase of plant construction was completed and operations began in December 2009.



The Company has entered into Brazilian joint ventures for the purposes of growing sugarcane and the production of sugar and ethanol from sugarcane.  Construction of the first joint venture ethanol production facility was completed and operations began in December 2009.



Red Star Yeast Company, LLC produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the United States and Canada.  The Company has a 40% ownership interest in this joint venture.









Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Agricultural Services



The Agricultural Services segment utilizes the Company’s extensive grain elevator and transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as  food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry.  Agricultural Services’ grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Company’s agricultural processing operations and customers.  Agricultural Services’ transportation network capabilities include ground, rail, river, and ocean freight services.



The Company processes and distributes edible beans in the United States for use as a food ingredient.  The Company produces and distributes formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products to the livestock, dairy, poultry, and pet food industries.



Alfred C. Toepfer International (Toepfer), in which the Company has an 80% interest, is a global merchandiser of agricultural commodities and processed products.  Toepfer has 36 sales offices worldwide and operates inland, river, and export facilities in Argentina, Romania, Ukraine, and the United States.



The Company has a 45% interest in Kalama Export Company, a grain export elevator in Washington.



Other



The Company is engaged in milling wheat, corn, and milo into flour in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, and the United Kingdom.  Wheat flour is sold primarily to commercial bakeries, food manufacturing companies, food service companies, and retailers.  Bulgur, a gelatinized wheat food, is sold to both the export and the domestic food markets.  Corn meal and flour is sold primarily to the cereal, snack, and bakery mix markets.  The Company produces bakery products and mixes, wheat starch, and gluten, which are sold to the baking industry.  The Company also mills milo to produce industrial flour used in the manufacturing of wallboard for the building industry.



Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. (Gruma), in which the Company has a 23.2% interest, is the world’s largest producer and marketer of corn flour and tortillas with operations in Mexico, the United States, Central America, South America, and Europe.  Additionally, the Company has a 20% share, through a joint venture with Gruma, in six U.S. corn flour mills and one in Italy.  The Company also has a 40% share, through a joint venture with Gruma, in nine Mexican wheat flour mills.



The Company procures, transports, and processes cocoa beans and produces cocoa liquor, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate, and various compounds in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa for the food processing industry.



Hickory Point Bank and Trust Company, fsb, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, furnishes public banking and trust services, as well as cash management, transfer agency, and securities safekeeping services, for the Company.



ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges.  ADM Investor Services International, Ltd. and ADMIS Hong Kong Limited are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company offering broker services in Europe and Asia.



Agrinational Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company and participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements.



The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets.











Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Corporate



Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates, of which the Company has a 41.5% interest, is a joint venture which targets investments in food, feed ingredients and bioenergy businesses.



In July 2010, the Company made a $100 million cornerstone investment in Agricultural Bank of China, to help advance its strategic growth plans in China.



Methods of Distribution



Since the Company’s customers are principally other manufacturers and processors, the Company’s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers’ facilities.  The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation system to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world.  The Company owns or leases large numbers of the trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used in this transportation system.



Concentration of Sales by Product



The following products account for 10% or more of net sales and other operating income for the last three fiscal years:



% of Net Sales and Other Operating Income201020092008Soybeans22%19%16%Soybean Meal12%11%11%Corn10%12%14%Wheat6%9%10%



Status of New Products



The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products.



For retail and foodservice markets, the Company’s researchers continue to develop custom fats and oils with low levels of trans fats. In addition, the Company is working to develop vegetable oil products with reduced saturated fats.  During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, the Company successfully introduced oils with lower levels of naturally occurring trace compounds in Europe.



The Company continues to develop the market for its cooked, dried edible bean products of the Vegefull™ line to meet customer demands for increased protein and fiber in food.



In 2007, the Company entered into a development agreement with ConocoPhillips to develop affordable, renewable transportation biofuels from biomass.  A technology platform has been developed following extensive evaluation of potential options for the production of bio-crude materials.  The Company is piloting the technology and has produced quantities of biocrude that can be upgraded to gasoline components by ConocoPhillips.



In December 2009, the Company started production of Mirel®, a renewable plastic in our Clinton, Iowa facility.  This new bioplastic is being marketed by Telles, a joint venture of the Company and Metabolix.











Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



The Company has completed modifications to its sorghum mill in Plainview, Texas to produce food-grade sorghum flour to be used in the growing market for gluten-free, multigrain and whole-grain bakery and snack products.  The Company has introduced a new chocolate that contains fiber for use in nutrition bars.



The Company is moving toward the completion of its propylene glycol plant in Decatur, Illinois.  The Company expects this plant to be fully operational in the fourth quarter of this calendar year.



The Company has begun offering isosorbide under its Evolution Chemicals™ line.  Isosorbide is an industrial ingredient made from corn that is a potential alternative to the petroleum-based chemical Bisphenol A in plastics and other applications.



Source and Availability of Raw Materials



Substantially all of the Company’s raw materials are agricultural commodities.  In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand created by population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  The Company’s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants, in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa, pursuant to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis.  The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials.



Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses



The Company owns valuable patents, trademarks, and licenses but does not consider any segment of its business dependent upon any single or group of patents, trademarks or licenses.



Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers



Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in the manufacture, sale, and distribution of its products and services.  There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company’s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, cocoa beans, sugarcane, and other grains.  However, the physical movement of the millions of metric tons of these crops through the Company’s global processing facilities is reasonably constant throughout the year.



Price variations and availability of raw agricultural commodities may cause fluctuations in the Company’s working capital levels.  No material part of the Company’s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers.



Competition



The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, quality, products and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company.  Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis,   focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company’s asset portfolio.



Research and Development Expenditures



The Company’s research and development expenditures are focused on improving processing efficiency and developing food, feed, fuel, and industrial products from renewable agricultural crops.











Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



The Company maintains a research laboratory in Decatur, Illinois, where product and process development activities are conducted.  Activities at Decatur include the development of new bioproducts and the improvement of existing bioproducts by utilizing new microbial strains that are developed using classical mutation and genetic engineering.  Protein and vegetable oil research is also conducted in Decatur where bakery, meat and dairy pilot plants support food ingredient research.  Vegetable oil research is also conducted in Hamburg, Germany; Erith, UK; and Arras, France.  Research to support sales and development for flour and bakery products is performed in Overland Park, Kansas.  Sales and development support for cocoa and chocolate products is performed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and K
oog aan de Zaan, the Netherlands.  Research and technical support for industrial and food wheat starch applications is conducted in Ontario, Canada.  The Company recently opened its Advantage Centre in Singapore which supports customers with de Zaan cocoa product solutions through seminars, demonstrations and collaborative product development.



The Company uses technical service representatives to interact with customers to understand the customers’ product needs.  These technical service representatives then interact with researchers who are familiar with the Company’s wide range of food, feed, fuel, and industrial products as well as applications technology.  These individuals form quick-acting teams to develop solutions to customer needs.



As part of the Company’s partnership with ConocoPhillips, the Company is continuing its development of advanced biofuels.  Piloting work has been undertaken for the conversion of biomass into bio-crude which can be utilized within an existing petroleum refinery to produce gasoline components.  In addition, the Company is developing a technology for the conversion of vegetable oils into green diesel.



The Company is continuing to work on a grant awarded by the Department of Energy to build and operate a pilot plant for the production of ethanol and ethyl acrylate from corn stover and other cellulosic materials.



The Company’s biodiesel research is focused on cost, product quality, and alternative feed stocks.  Several new technologies have been developed to minimize the chemical input costs for biodiesel production while simultaneously reducing waste streams and improving yield. Selected technologies are being deployed in the Company’s current biodiesel production facilities to reduce costs and improve quality.



The Company has entered into a joint development agreement with John Deere and Monsanto to evaluate the sustainable collection, storage and transportation of corn stover – the stalks, cobs and leaves of the corn plant left in the field after combine harvesting.  The insights from this research will continue to help the Company understand the volume potential and economics of corn stover as a biomass feedstock for advanced biofuels.



The Company is working with the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory and other key academic and corporate partners on projects to demonstrate carbon capture and sequestration as a viable option for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from manufacturing operations.  The first project will demonstrate the viability of sequestering carbon dioxide in the Mt. Simon Sandstone, an underground saline-bearing rock formation.  A second project, announced in June 2010, is currently investigating the feasibility to sequester up to one million tons of carbon dioxide annually.



The Company is continuing to invest in research to develop a broad range of industrial chemicals.  The approach is to build key chemical-building blocks that serve as a platform for producing a variety of commodity chemicals.  The key chemical-building blocks are derived from the Company’s starch and oilseed- based feedstocks.  Conversion technologies include utilizing expertise in both fermentation and catalysis.  The chemicals pipeline includes the development of chemicals and intermediates that are currently produced from petrochemical resources as well as new to the market bio-based products.  The Company’s current portfolio includes products that are in the early development phase and those that are close to pilot plant demonstration.



The expense during the three years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 for such technical efforts, including expenditures subsequently reimbursed by grants, was approximately $56 million, $50 million, and $49 million, respectively.











Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Environmental Compliance



During the year ended June 30, 2010, $90 million was spent specifically to improve equipment, facilities, and programs for pollution control and compliance with the requirements of various environmental agencies.



On July 31, 2009, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) issued a Notice of Violation indicating that one of the Company’s facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, may have violated section 311(j) of the Clean Water Act relating to a release of product that occurred on January 2, 2008.  The Company and the U.S. EPA have reached a tentative agreement to resolve this matter which includes a penalty of approximately $120,000.



There have been no material effects upon the earnings and competitive position of the Company resulting from compliance with federal, state, and local laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment.



The Company’s business could be affected in the future by national and global regulation or taxation of greenhouse gas emissions. In the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (Agency) has recently adopted regulations requiring the owners of certain facilities to measure and report their greenhouse gas emissions, and the Agency has begun a process to regulate these emissions under the Clean Air Act. The U.S. Congress is currently considering climate change-related legislation which may include cap and trade provisions or a carbon tax. Globally, a number of countries that are parties to the Kyoto Protocol have instituted or are considering climate change legislation and regulations. Most notable is the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System (EU-ETS). The Company has several facilities in Europe that
 participate in this system.  It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage, or predict the potential impact, of any additional legislation. Potential consequences could include increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment.



Number of Employees



The number of full-time employees of the Company was approximately 29,300 at June 30, 2010.



Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations



Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 2, “Properties,” includes information relating to the Company’s foreign and domestic operations.  Geographic financial information is set forth in “Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.



Available Information



The Company’s internet address ishttp://www.adm.com.  The Company makes available, free of charge, through its internet site, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; Directors and Officers Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



In addition, the Company makes available, through its Internet site, the Company’s Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, and Executive Committees.



References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.  Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.









Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC.  The SEC’s Internet address is http://www.sec.gov.





