Item 1.BUSINESS



Company Overview



Archer-Daniels-Midland-Company (the Company) was incorporated in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels Linseed Co. founded in 1902.  The Company is one of the world’s largest processors of oilseeds, corn, wheat, cocoa, and other agricultural commodities and is a leading manufacturer of vegetable oil, protein meal, corn sweeteners, flour, biodiesel, ethanol, and other value-added food and feed ingredients.  The Company also has an extensive grain elevator and transportation network to procure, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, as well as processed agricultural commodities.  The Company has significant investments in joint ventures.  The Company expects to benefit from these investments, which typically aim to expand or enhance the Company’s market for its products or offer other benefits including, but not limited to, geographic or product line expansion.



The Company’s vision is to be the most admired global agribusiness while creating value and growing responsibly.  The Company’s strategy involves expanding the volume and diversity of crops that it merchandises and processes, expanding the global reach of its core model, and expanding its value-added product portfolio.  The Company seeks to serve vital needs by connecting the harvest to the home and transforming crops into food and energy products.  The Company desires to execute this vision and these strategies by conducting its business in accordance with its core values of operating with integrity, treating others with respect, achieving excellence, being resourceful, displaying teamwork, and being responsible.



During the past five years, the Company significantly expanded its agricultural commodity processing and handling capacity through construction of new plants, expansion of existing plants, and the acquisition of plants and transportation equipment.  The Company currently expects to spend approximately $2.0 billion on capital expenditures in fiscal year 2012, primarily for acquisitions and expansions of processing plants as well as for storage facilities, transportation equipment, and other capital projects including projects aimed at improving efficiency.  The Company anticipates that approximately one-half of these investments will relate to non-U.S. operations and a significant portion of the U.S. investments will support the Company’s ability to serve export markets.  There have been no significant dispositions during the last five years.



Segment Descriptions



The Company’s operations are classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services.  Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered.  The Company’s remaining operations, which include wheat processing, cocoa processing, and its financial business units, are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other.  Financial information with respect to the Company’s reportable business segments is set forth in Note 16 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”













Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Oilseeds Processing





The Company has a 16.4% ownership interest in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly listed company.  Wilmar, a leading agribusiness group in Asia, is engaged in the businesses of oil palm cultivation, oilseeds crushing, edible oils refining, sugar, consumer pack edible oils processing and merchandising, specialty fats, oleo chemicals, biodiesel, fertilizers and soy protein manufacturing, rice and flour milling, and grains merchandising.



Effective December 31, 2010, the Company acquired Alimenta (USA) Inc., and as a result of the transaction, now owns 100% of Golden Peanut Company LLC (Golden Peanut).  Golden Peanut is a major supplier of peanuts and peanut-derived ingredients to both the U.S. and export markets and operator of one peanut shelling facility in Argentina.  The Company began consolidating the operating results of Golden Peanut in the third quarter of fiscal 2011.



The Company has a 50% interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between the Company and Princes Limited to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom.  The Company also formed a joint venture with Princes Limited in Poland to procure, package, and sell edible oils in Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Austria.



Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between the Company and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America.  The Company has a 50% ownership interest in this joint venture.



The Company is a major supplier of agricultural commodity raw materials to Wilmar, Edible Oils Limited, and Stratas Foods LLC.











Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Corn Processing





Almidones Mexicanos S.A., in which the Company has a 50% interest, operates a wet corn milling plant in Mexico.



Eaststarch C.V. (Netherlands), in which the Company has a 50% interest, owns interests in companies that operate wet corn milling plants in Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia, and Turkey.



The Company has a 50% interest in Telles, LLC (Telles), a joint venture between the Company and Metabolix Inc. to market and sell a corn-based bioplastic, which is being produced in a facility owned by the Company.



The Company entered into Brazilian joint ventures for the purposes of growing sugarcane and the production of sugar and ethanol from sugarcane.  Construction of the joint venture’s ethanol production facility was completed and operations began in December 2009.  In fiscal 2011, ADM obtained 100% ownership of these sugarcane operations.



Red Star Yeast Company, LLC produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the United States and Canada.  The Company has a 40% ownership interest in this joint venture.



Agricultural Services



The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator and global transportation network to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry.  Agricultural Services’ grain sourcing and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Company’s customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services’ transportation network capabilities include truck, rail, barge, port, and ocean-going vessel handling and freight services.  The Agricultural Services segment also includes the activities related to the processing and distributing of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products, and the procuring, processing, and distributing of edible beans.



Alfred C. Toepfer International (Toepfer), in which the Company has an 80% interest, is a global merchandiser of agricultural commodities and processed products.  Toepfer has 36 sales offices worldwide and operates inland, river, and export facilities in Argentina, Romania, Ukraine, and the United States.



The Company has a 45% interest in Kalama Export Company, a grain export elevator in Washington.











Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Other



Other includes the Company’s remaining processing operations, consisting of activities related to processing agricultural commodities into food ingredient products such as wheat into wheat flour, and cocoa into chocolate and cocoa products.  Other also includes financial activities related to banking, captive insurance, futures commission merchant activities, and private equity fund investments.



Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. (Gruma), in which the Company has a 23.2% interest, is the world’s largest producer and marketer of corn flour and tortillas with operations in Mexico, the United States, Central America, South America, and Europe.  Additionally, the Company has a 20% share, through a joint venture with Gruma, in six U.S. corn flour mills and one in Italy.  The Company also has a 40% share, through a joint venture with Gruma, in nine Mexican wheat flour mills.



The Company procures, transports, and processes cocoa beans and produces cocoa liquor, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate, and various compounds in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa for the food processing industry.



Hickory Point Bank and Trust Company, fsb (Bank), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, furnishes public banking and trust services, as well as cash management, transfer agency, and securities safekeeping services, for the Company.  In fiscal 2011, the Company announced the sale of a majority ownership interest in the Bank, which is pending regulatory approval.



Captive insurance, which includes Agrinational Insurance Company (Agrinational), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, credit, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company and participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements.  Agrinational also writes crop insurance for farmers in the United States and South America.



ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges in the U.S.  ADM Investor Services International, Ltd., a member of several commodity exchanges and clearing houses in Europe, and ADMIS Hong Kong Limited, are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company offering broker services in Europe and Asia.



The Company is a limited partner in various private equity funds which invest primarily in emerging markets.



Corporate



Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates, of which the Company has a 41.5% interest, is a joint venture which targets investments in food, feed ingredients and bioenergy businesses.



The Company has an investment in Agricultural Bank of China to help advance its strategic growth plans in China.



Methods of Distribution



Since the Company’s customers are principally other manufacturers and processors, the Company’s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers’ facilities.  The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation system to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world.  The Company owns or leases large numbers of the trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used in this transportation system.















Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Concentration of Sales by Product



The following products account for 10% or more of net sales and other operating income for the last three fiscal years:



% of Net Sales and Other Operating Income201120102009Soybeans21%22%19%Corn12%10%12%Soybean Meal9%12%11%



Status of New Products



The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products.  The Company does not expect any of the following products to have a significant impact on the Company’s net sales and operating income in the next fiscal year.



For retail and foodservice markets, the Company’s researchers continue to develop custom fats and oils with low levels of trans fats.  This year the Company broadened its portfolio of enzymatically-modified low trans fats.  In addition, the Company is working to develop vegetable oil products with reduced saturated fats.



The Company has finalized an agreement with Burcon Technologies to exclusively manufacture, market and sell Clarisoy®, a unique transparent soy protein.  The Company is building a semi-works production facility and is optimizing the characteristics of Clarisoy® in low pH beverage applications for introduction into the market place.



The Company, along with ConocoPhillips, is piloting a technology to produce renewable transportation biofuels from biomass and has successfully produced quantities of biocrude that can be upgraded to gasoline components.  The Company is continuing to evaluate the economic viability of the technology.



The Company has developed a number of new biosurfactants for several new markets.  One product is an agricultural adjuvant which is used to emulsify herbicides and mineral nutrients in water for spray application on corn and soybean crops.  Another line of biosurfactants was developed for inks, paints, and coatings to serve as dispersants for pigments.



The Company has started producing propylene glycol and isosorbide under its Evolution Chemicals™ line.  The Company’s propylene glycol is an industrial ingredient made from corn or oilseeds that is a drop-in replacement to petroleum-based propylene glycol.  Derived from corn, isosorbide is a versatile chemical building block with wide ranging uses including production of polyesters for use in inks, toners, powder coatings, packaging and durable goods; polyurethanes used in foams and coatings; polycarbonates for durable goods and optical media; epoxy resins for paints and canned food coatings; and detergents, surfactants and additives for personal care and consumer products.



In December 2009, the Company started production of Mirel®, a renewable plastic in its Clinton, Iowa facility.  This new bioplastic is being marketed by Telles, a joint-venture of the Company and Metabolix, Inc.













Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Source and Availability of Raw Materials



Substantially all of the Company’s raw materials are agricultural commodities.  In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as changes in weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  The Company’s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa, pursuant primarily to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis.  The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials.



Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses



The Company owns valuable patents, trademarks, and licenses but does not consider any segment of its business dependent upon any single or group of patents, trademarks or licenses.



Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers



Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in the manufacture, sale, and distribution of its products and services.  There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company’s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, cocoa beans, sugarcane, and other grains.  However, the physical movement of the millions of metric tons of these crops through the Company’s global processing facilities is reasonably constant throughout the year.



The Company’s working capital requirements are directly affected by the price of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly.  Because the Company has a higher portion of its operations in the northern hemisphere, principally North America and Europe, relative to the southern hemisphere, primarily South America, inventory levels typically peak after the fall harvest and are generally lower during the summer months.  Working capital requirements have historically trended with inventory levels.  No material part of the Company’s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers.  The Company has seasonal financing arrangements with farmers in certain countries around the world.  Typically, advances on these financing arrangements occur during the planting season and are repaid at harvest.



Competition



The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, quality, and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company.  Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis, focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company’s asset portfolio.



Research and Development Expenditures



The Company’s research and development expenditures are focused on responding to demand from customers’ product development or formulation needs, improving processing efficiency, and developing food, feed, fuel, and industrial products from renewable agricultural crops.  Research and development expense during the three years ended June 30, 2011, 2010, and 2009, net of reimbursements of government grants, was approximately $60 million, $56 million, and $50 million, respectively.  The Company does not expect these research and development expenses to have a significant effect on net sales and other operating profit in the next year.













Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



The Company is working with the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory and other key academic and corporate partners on projects to demonstrate carbon capture and sequestration as a viable option for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from manufacturing operations.  The first project, Illinois Basin Decatur Project (IBDP) led by Midwest Geological Sequestration Consortium (MGSC), has finished construction and expects to start operations in the third quarter of calendar year 2011.  The second project, the Illinois Industrial Carbon Capture & Sequestration (IL-ICCS), has met the milestone for completing the front end engineering designs and commenced construction in the second quarter of calendar year 2011. This facility is expected to be operational in the third quarter of calendar year 2013.



The Company is continuing to invest in research to develop a broad range of industrial chemicals with an objective to produce  key chemical building blocks that serve as a platform for producing a variety of commodity chemicals.  The key chemical building blocks are derived from the Company’s starch and oilseed-based feedstocks.  Conversion technologies include utilizing expertise in both fermentation and catalysis.  The chemicals pipeline includes the development of chemicals and intermediates that are currently produced from petrochemical resources as well as new to the market bio-based products. The Company’s current portfolio includes products that are in the early development phase and those that are close to pilot plant demonstration. In an effort to further advance the development of bio-based chemical technologies, the Company has partnered with the Center for Environmentally Beneficial Catalysis (CEBC) at Kansas University.  The Company and Kansas University were awarded a grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture in May 2011 to develop sustainable catalytic processes to convert biomass into bio-based chemicals.



Environmental Compliance



During the year ended June 30, 2011, $91 million was spent specifically to improve equipment, facilities, and programs for pollution control and compliance with the requirements of various environmental agencies.



On July 31, 2009, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) issued a Notice of Violation indicating that one of the Company’s facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, may have violated section 311(j) of the Clean Water Act relating to a release of product that occurred on January 2, 2008.  The Company and the U.S. EPA have reached an agreement to resolve this matter with the payment of a penalty of approximately $120,000.



There have been no material effects upon the earnings and competitive position of the Company resulting from compliance with federal, state, and local laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment.



The Company’s business could be affected in the future by national and global regulation or taxation of greenhouse gas emissions. In the United States, the U.S. EPA has adopted regulations requiring the owners of certain facilities to measure and report their greenhouse gas emissions, and the U.S. EPA has begun a process to regulate these emissions under the Clean Air Act.  Globally, a number of countries that are parties to the Kyoto Protocol have instituted or are considering climate change legislation and regulations. Most notable is the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System (EU-ETS). The Company has several facilities in Europe that participate in this system.  It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage, or predict the potential impact, of any additional legislation. Potential consequences could include increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment.



Number of Employees



The number of full-time employees of the Company was approximately 30,700 at June 30, 2011.



Financial Information About Foreign and U.S. Operations



Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 2, “Properties,” includes information relating to the Company’s foreign and U.S. operations.  Geographic financial information is set forth in “Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.











Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Available Information



The Company’s internet address ishttp://www.adm.com.  The Company makes available, free of charge, through its website, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; Directors and Officers Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



In addition, the Company makes available, through its website, the Company’s Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, and Executive Committees.



References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.  Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.



The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC.  The SEC’s internet address is http://www.sec.gov.



