Item 1.BUSINESS



Company Overview



Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the Company) was incorporated in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels Linseed Co. founded in 1902.  The Company is one of the world’s leading producers of food and beverage ingredients, and other products made from oilseeds, corn, wheat, and other agricultural commodities.  The Company's products include natural flavors and colors, health and nutrition products, vegetable oil, corn sweeteners, flour, animal feed, and biofuels.  The Company has an extensive global grain elevator and transportation network to procure, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, as well as products derived from those inputs.  The Company has significant investments in joint ventures.  The Company expects to benefit from these investments, which typically aim to expand or enhance the Company’s market for its products or offer other benefits including, but not limited to, geographic or product line expansion.



The Company’s vision is to be the most admired global agribusiness and ingredients company while creating value and growing responsibly.  The Company’s strategy involves expanding the volume and diversity of crops that it merchandises and processes, expanding the global reach of its core model, and expanding its value-added product portfolio.  The Company desires to execute this vision and these strategies by conducting its business in accordance with its core values of operating with integrity, treating others with respect, achieving excellence, being resourceful, displaying teamwork, and being responsible.



As the world population grows, so does demand for quality foods, feed ingredients for livestock, alternative fuels, and environmentally friendly alternatives to traditional chemicals.  As one of the world's leading agricultural and food ingredient processors, the Company plays a pivotal role in meeting all of these needs in sustainable ways.  The Company produces the food ingredients, biofuels, and other products that manufacturers around the world use to provide wholesome food and a better life to millions of people around the globe.



Segment Descriptions



The Company’s operations are organized, managed, and classified into four reportable business segments: Agricultural Services, Corn Processing, Oilseeds Processing, and Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients.  Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered.  The Company’s remaining operations are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other.  Financial information with respect to the Company’s reportable business segments is set forth in Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



Agricultural Services



The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive global grain elevator and transportation networks, and port operations to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry.  The Agricultural Services segment includes international agricultural commodities merchandising and handling activities managed through a global trade desk based in Rolle, Switzerland.  Agricultural Services’ grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Company’s customers and agricultural processing operations.  Agricultural Services’ transportation network capabilities include barge, ocean-going vessel, truck, rail, and container freight services.  The Agricultural Services segment also includes the activities related to structured trade finance and the processing of wheat into wheat flour.  In July 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of a 51% controlling interest in Industries Centers, an Israeli company specializing in the import and distribution of agricultural feed products, which is now known as ADM Israel.



The Company has a32.2%interest in Pacificor (formerly Kalama Export Company LLC).  Pacificor owns and operates a grain export elevator in Kalama, Washington and a grain export elevator in Portland, Oregon.



The Company held a19.8%interest in GrainCorp Limited (GrainCorp), a publicly listed company on the Australian Stock Exchange, until its sale in December 2016.  GrainCorp is engaged in grain receival and handling, transportation, port operations, oilseed processing, malt processing, flour processing, and grain marketing activities.












Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Corn Processing





Hungrana Ltd., in which the Company owns a50%interest, operates a wet corn milling plant in Hungary.



Almidones Mexicanos S.A., in which the Company has a50%interest, operates a wet corn milling plant in Mexico.



Red Star Yeast Company, LLC produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the United States and Canada.  The Company has a40%ownership interest in this joint venture.



Oilseeds Processing





The Company has an equity interest in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly listed company.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company acquired additional shares in Wilmar, increasing its ownership interest from 23.2% to24.9%as of December 31, 2017.  Wilmar, a leading agribusiness group in Asia, is engaged in the businesses of oil palm cultivation, oilseeds crushing, edible oils refining, packaged oils and foods, sugar milling and refining, specialty fats, oleo chemicals, biodiesel and fertilizers manufacturing, and grains processing.



Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between the Company and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America.  The Company has a50%ownership interest in this joint venture.








Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



The Company has a50%interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between the Company and Princes Limited to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom.  The Company also formed a joint venture with Princes Limited in Poland to procure, package, and sell edible oils in Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Austria.



Olenex Sarl (Olenex), a joint venture between the Company and Wilmar, produces and sells a comprehensive portfolio of edible oils and fats to customers around the globe.  In addition, Olenex markets refined oils and fats from the Company's plants in the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, and the U.K. The Company has a37.5%ownership interest in this joint venture.

The Company is a major supplier of agricultural commodity raw materials to Wilmar, Stratas Foods LLC, Edible Oils Limited, and Olenex.



Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients



The Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients (WFSI) segment engages in the manufacturing, sales, and distribution of specialty products including natural flavor ingredients, flavor systems, natural colors, proteins, emulsifiers, soluble fiber, polyols, hydrocolloids, natural health and nutrition products, and other specialty food and feed ingredients.  The WFSI segment also includes the activities related to the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans.



Other



Other includes the Company’s remaining operations related to futures commission merchant and insurance activities.



ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges in the U.S.  ADM Investor Services International, Limited, a member of several commodity exchanges and clearing houses in Europe, ADMIS Hong Kong Limited, and ADMIS Singapore Pte. Limited are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company offering broker services in Europe and Asia.



Insurance activities include Agrinational Insurance Company (Agrinational) and its subsidiaries.  Agrinational, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, credit, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company.  Agrinational also participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements and retained a portion of the crop insurance risk written by ADM Crop Risk Services, a wholly owned subsidiary engaged in the selling and servicing of crop insurance policies to farmers which was sold to Validus Holdings, a global group of insurance and reinsurance companies on May 1, 2017.



Corporate



Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates (CIP), in which the Company has a43.7%interest, is a joint venture which targets investments in food, feed ingredients, and bioproducts businesses.



Methods of Distribution



The Company’s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers’ facilities.  The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation capability to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world.  The Company owns or leases large numbers of the trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used to transport the Company’s products to its customers.








Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Concentration of Revenues by Product



The following products account for 10% or more of revenues for the following periods:



% of RevenuesYear Ended December 31201720162015Soybeans17%17%16%Soybean Meal13%13%13%Corn10%10%11%



Status of New Products



The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products.  Acquisitions, especially in the Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients segment, expand the Company’s ability to serve the customers’ evolving needs through its offering of natural flavor and ingredient products.  The Company does not expect any of its new products to have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues in 2018.



Source and Availability of Raw Materials



Substantially all of the Company’s raw materials are agricultural commodities.  In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as changes in weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  The Company’s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants in North America, South America, EMEA, Asia, and Australia, pursuant primarily to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis.  The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials.



Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses



The Company owns patents, trademarks, and licenses, principally consisting of$222 millionof trademarks from the Wild Flavors acquisition in 2014, but does not consider any segment of its business dependent upon any single or group of patents, trademarks or licenses.



Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers



Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in overall global processing volumes and the sale and distribution of its products and services.  There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company’s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, and other grains.



The prices of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly, directly affect the Company’s working capital requirements.  Because the Company has a higher portion of its operations in the northern hemisphere, principally North America and Europe, relative to the southern hemisphere, primarily South America, inventory levels typically peak after the northern hemisphere fall harvest and are generally lower during the northern hemisphere summer months.  Working capital requirements have historically trended with inventory levels.  No material part of the Company’s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers.  The Company has seasonal financing arrangements with farmers in certain countries around the world.  Typically, advances on these financing arrangements occur during the planting season and are repaid at harvest.



Competition



The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, foreign exchange rates, quality, global supply, and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company.  Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis, focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company’s asset portfolio.






Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Research and Development Expenditures



The Company’s research and development expenditures are focused on responding to demand from customers’ product development or formulation needs, improving processing efficiency, and developing food, feed, fuel, and industrial products from renewable agricultural crops.  Research and development expense during the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016, and2015, net of reimbursements of government grants, was approximately$129 million,$123 million, and$122 million, respectively.



The Company’s laboratories and technical centers around the world enhance its ability to interact with customers in Europe, Asia, and South America, not only to provide flavors, but also to support the sales of other food ingredients.  The acquisition of Wild Flavors in October 2014 approximately doubled the number of scientists and technicians in research and development.  Since that time, additional laboratories have been added, including food & beverages applications laboratories in Sydney, Australia and Cranbury, New Jersey as well as expanded laboratories in Decatur, Illinois and Singapore.



The Company is working with the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory and other key academic and corporate partners on carbon sequestration projects to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from manufacturing operations.  The second carbon sequestration project, the Illinois Industrial Carbon Capture & Sequestration, started carbon dioxide injection in April 2017.



The Company is continuing to invest in research to develop a broad range of sustainable materials with an objective to produce key intermediate materials that serve as a platform for producing a variety of sustainable packaging products.  The key materials are derived from the Company’s starch and oilseed-based feedstocks.  Conversion technologies include utilizing expertise in both fermentation and catalysis.  The materials pipeline includes the development of chemicals and intermediates that are currently produced from petrochemical resources as well as new-to-the-market bio-based products. The Company’s current portfolio includes products that are in the early development phase and those that are close to pilot plant demonstration.  The Company’s project with DuPont to develop sustainable packaging solutions with improved barrier properties has progressed to the construction of a demonstration semi-works plant.  This facility, which will be completed in early 2018, will provide both development samples for customers as well as engineering data for a full scale plant.



The Company is also expanding its human health and nutrition portfolio with the acquisition of an 89% controlling interest in Biopolis SL (Biopolis), a leading provider of probiotics and genomic services.  Biopolis provides genomic sequencing capabilities for the Company's customers as well as for its internal use.  Biopolis also has high through-put biological functionality testing capabilities that can be used to discover new probiotics and nutraceuticals.  In September 2017, the Company announced a collaboration with the Mayo Clinic to study gut microflora with respect to personalized nutrition.



In January 2018, the Company announced a joint development agreement with Vland Biotech to develop and commercialize enzymes for animal feed.



ADM Ventures, which was launched by the Company in October 2016, has made its first selections of high-potential, new-product development projects from its business units.  ADM Ventures is also looking at several promising, early-stage start-up companies in which the Company may wish to invest.



Environmental Compliance



During the year endedDecember 31, 2017,$40 millionwas spent specifically to improve equipment, facilities, and programs for pollution control and compliance with the requirements of various environmental agencies.



There have been no material effects upon the earnings and competitive position of the Company resulting from compliance with applicable laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment.




















Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



A number of jurisdictions where the Company has operations have implemented or are in the process of implementing carbon pricing programs or regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including, but not limited to, the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the E.U. and its member states, and China.  The Company's operations located in countries with effective and applicable carbon pricing and regulatory programs currently meet their obligations in this regard with no significant impact on the earnings and competitive position of the Company.  The Company’s business could be affected in the future by additional global, regional, national, and local regulation, pricing of greenhouse gas emissions or other climate change legislation, regulation or agreements.  It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage, or predict the potential impact, of any additional legislation, regulations or agreements.  Potential consequences of new obligations could include increased energy, transportation, raw material, and administrative costs, and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment.



Number of Employees



The number of full-time employees of the Company was approximately31,300atDecember 31, 2017and31,800atDecember 31, 2016.  The net decrease in the number of full-time employees is primarily related to the reduction of certain positions within the Company's global workforce and divestitures, partially offset by acquisitions.



Financial Information About Foreign and U.S. Operations



Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 2, “Properties,” include information relating to the Company’s foreign and U.S. operations.  Geographic financial information is set forth in Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.



Available Information



The Company’s website is http://www.adm.com.  The Company makes available, free of charge, through its website, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; directors’ and officers’ Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, if any, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



In addition, the Company makes available, through its website, the Company’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, and Executive Committees.



References to the Company's website address in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.  Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.



The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC.  The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov.





