Item 1.BUSINESS



Company Overview



Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the Company) was incorporated in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels Linseed Co. founded in 1902.  The Company is one of the world’s largest processors of oilseeds, corn, wheat, cocoa, and other agricultural commodities and is a leading manufacturer of protein meal, vegetable oil, corn sweeteners, flour, biodiesel, ethanol, and other value-added food and feed ingredients.  The Company also has an extensive global grain elevator and transportation network to procure, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, as well as processed agricultural commodities.  The Company has significant investments in joint ventures.  The Company expects to benefit from these investments, which typically aim to expand or enhance the Company’s market for its products or offer other benefits including, but not limited to, geographic or product line expansion.



The Company’s vision is to be the most admired global agribusiness while creating value and growing responsibly.  The Company’s strategy involves expanding the volume and diversity of crops that it merchandises and processes, expanding the global reach of its core model, and expanding its value-added product portfolio.  The Company seeks to serve vital needs by connecting the harvest to the home and transforming crops into food and energy products.  The Company desires to execute this vision and these strategies by conducting its business in accordance with its core values of operating with integrity, treating others with respect, achieving excellence, being resourceful, displaying teamwork, and being responsible.



On May 3, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company determined that, in accordance with its Bylaws and upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Company’s fiscal year shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year, starting on January 1, 2013. The required transition period of July 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 is included in this Form 10-K report.  Amounts included in this report for the six months ended December 31, 2011 are unaudited.



On August 25, 2014, the Company opened its new global headquarters and customer center at 77 West Wacker Drive, Suite 4600, Chicago, Illinois, 60601.



Segment Descriptions



Prior to January 1, 2015, the Company’s operations were classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services.  Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered.  The Company’s remaining operations are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other.  Financial information with respect to the Company’s reportable business segments is set forth in Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



During the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company completed the acquisitions of the WILD Flavors businesses (Wild Flavors) and Specialty Commodities Inc. (SCI) for a total consideration of $2.9 billion, making the Company one of the world’s leading flavors and specialty ingredients companies.  Effective January 1, 2015, the Company has formed a fourth reportable business segment, Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients.




































Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)





Oilseeds Processing





The Company has a17.3%ownership interest in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly listed company.  Wilmar, a leading agribusiness group in Asia, is engaged in the businesses of oil palm cultivation, oilseeds crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, specialty fats, oleo chemicals, biodiesel and fertilizers manufacturing, and grains processing.



The Oilseeds Processing segment also includes activities related to the procurement, transportation and processing of cocoa beans into cocoa liquor, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate, and various compounds in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa for the food industry.  On September 2, 2014, the Company announced the sale of its global chocolate business to Cargill, Inc. for$440 million, subject to regulatory approval and customary conditions.  On December 15, 2014, the Company also announced that it has reached an agreement to sell its global cocoa business to Olam International Limited for$1.3 billion, subject to customary conditions.  Both transactions are expected to close in 2015.  The chocolate and cocoa businesses are classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2014.



Golden Peanut and Tree Nuts (Golden Peanut), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a major supplier of peanuts and tree nuts to both the U.S. and international markets and operator of a peanut shelling facility in Argentina.



Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between the Company and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America.  The Company has a 50% ownership interest in this joint venture.



The Company has a 50% interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between the Company and Princes Limited to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom.  The Company also formed a joint venture with Princes Limited in Poland to procure, package, and sell edible oils in Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Austria.



The Company is a major supplier of agricultural commodity raw materials to Wilmar, Stratas Foods LLC, and Edible Oils Limited.
































Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)





Corn Processing





Almidones Mexicanos S.A., in which the Company has a 50% interest, operates a wet corn milling plant in Mexico.



Eaststarch C.V. (Netherlands), in which the Company has a 50% interest, owns interests in companies that operate wet corn milling plants in Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia, and Turkey.



Red Star Yeast Company, LLC produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the United States and Canada.  The Company has a 40% ownership interest in this joint venture.



Agricultural Services



The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator, global transportation network, and port operations to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry.  Agricultural Services’ grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Company’s customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services’ transportation network capabilities include barge, ocean-going vessel, truck, and rail freight services.



The Company has a 32.2% interest in Pacificor (formerly Kalama Export Company LLC).  Pacificor owns and operates a grain export elevator in Kalama, WA and a grain export elevator in Portland, OR.



Alfred C. Toepfer International became a wholly owned subsidiary on June 4, 2014, when the Company completed its acquisition of the remaining 20% interest, making the Company an integrated global merchandiser of agricultural commodities and processed products.  This global merchandising business operates a network of 36 sales offices worldwide and inland, river, and export facilities in Argentina, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, and the United States.



The Agricultural Services segment also includes the activities related to the origination and processing of wheat into wheat flour, the processing and distribution of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products, and the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans.



The Company has a 19.8% interest in GrainCorp Limited (GrainCorp), a publicly-listed company on the Australian Stock Exchange.  GrainCorp is engaged in grain receival and handling, transportation, port operations, oilseed processing, malt processing, flour processing, and grain marketing activities.



Prior to December 2012, the Company had a 23.2% interest in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. (Gruma), the world’s largest producer and marketer of corn flour and tortillas.  Additionally, the Company had joint ventures in corn flour and wheat flour mills with and through Gruma.  In December 2012, the Company sold its 23.2% interest in Gruma and the Gruma-related joint ventures.












Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)





Other



Prior to January 1, 2015, Other includes the post-acquisition results of Wild Flavors and SCI.



On October 1, 2014, the Company completed the acquisition of Wild Flavors, making the Company one of the world’s leading flavors and specialty ingredients companies.  Wild Flavors' products include flavors, colors, sweeteners and health ingredients as well as ready-to-market concepts and complete solutions.  These products create value and innovation for customers in the beverage, dairy, savory, confectionery, baked goods, ice cream, cereal, snack and oral care markets.



On November 18, 2014, the Company completed the acquisition of SCI, a leading originator, processor and distributor of healthy ingredients, including nuts, fruits, seeds, legumes and ancient grains.  SCI provides high-quality, safe ingredients to snack food, dairy, bakery, cereal, energy bar, confectionery and pet food companies throughout the world.



Other also includes the operations of the Company's financial business units, related principally to futures commission merchant activities and captive insurance.



ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges in the U.S.  ADM Investor Services International, Limited., a member of several commodity exchanges and clearing houses in Europe, ADMIS Hong Kong Limited, and ADMIS Singapore Pte. Limited, are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company offering broker services in Europe and Asia.  ADMISI Commodities Private Limited, in which the Company owns a 51% interest, and ADMISI Forex India Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, offer broker services in India.



Captive insurance includes Agrinational Insurance Company (Agrinational) and its subsidiaries.  Agrinational, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, credit, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company.  Agrinational also participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements and retains a portion of the crop insurance risk written by ADM Crop Risk Services, a wholly owned subsidiary.  ADM Crop Risk Services is a managing general agent which sells and services crop insurance policies to farmers.



Corporate



Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates (CIP), of which the Company has a 43.7% interest, is a joint venture which targets investments in food, feed ingredients and bioproducts businesses.



Methods of Distribution



The Company’s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers’ facilities.  The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation capability to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world.  The Company owns or leases large numbers of the trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used to transport the Company’s products to its customers.



Concentration of Revenues by Product



The following products account for 10% or more of revenues for the following periods:



% of RevenuesYears Ended December 31,Six Months EndedDecember 31,Year Ended     June 30,20142013201220112012Soybeans16%18%20%17%19%Corn10%9%10%12%11%Soybean Meal13%11%11%8%9%








Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)





Status of New Products



The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products.  The acquisition of Wild Flavors expands the Company's ability to serve the customers' evolving needs through its offering of natural flavor and ingredient products.  The Company does not expect any of its new products to have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues in 2015.



Source and Availability of Raw Materials



Substantially all of the Company’s raw materials are agricultural commodities.  In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as changes in weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  The Company’s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and Africa, pursuant primarily to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis.  The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials.



Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses



The Company owns patents, trademarks, and licenses, including approximately $240 million of trademarks from the Wild Flavors acquisition in 2014 (see Note 2 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (Item 8)), but does not consider any segment of its business dependent upon any single or group of patents, trademarks or licenses.



Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers



Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in overall global processing volumes and the sale and distribution of its products and services.  There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company’s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, cocoa beans, sugarcane, and other grains.



The price of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly, directly affects the Company’s working capital requirements.  Because the Company has a higher portion of its operations in the northern hemisphere, principally North America and Europe, relative to the southern hemisphere, primarily South America, inventory levels typically peak after the northern hemisphere fall harvest and are generally lower during the northern hemisphere summer months.  Working capital requirements have historically trended with inventory levels.  No material part of the Company’s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers.  The Company has seasonal financing arrangements with farmers in certain countries around the world.  Typically, advances on these financing arrangements occur during the planting season and are repaid at harvest.



Competition



The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, quality, and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company.  Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis, focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company’s asset portfolio.



Research and Development Expenditures



The Company’s research and development expenditures are focused on responding to demand from customers’ product development or formulation needs, improving processing efficiency, and developing food, feed, fuel, and industrial products from renewable agricultural crops.  Research and development expense during the years endedDecember 31, 2014and2013, the six months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the year ended June 30, 2012, net of reimbursements of government grants, was approximately$79 million,$59 million,$28 million,$29 million, and$56 million, respectively.  The increase in 2014 is due principally to research and development activities of the recently acquired Wild Flavors.












Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)





The Company is working with the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory and other key academic and corporate partners on projects to demonstrate carbon capture and sequestration as a viable option for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from manufacturing operations.  The first project, Illinois Basin Decatur Project led by Midwest Geological Sequestration Consortium started operations in the first quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and successfully completed injecting 1 million tons of CO2in the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.  The second project, the Illinois Industrial Carbon Capture & Sequestration commenced construction in the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. This facility obtained the underground injection control permit in November 2014 and is expected to be operational in the third quarter of fiscal year 2015.



The Company is continuing to invest in research to develop a broad range of industrial chemicals with an objective to produce key chemical building blocks that serve as a platform for producing a variety of commodity chemicals.  The key chemical building blocks are derived from the Company’s starch and oilseed-based feedstocks.  Conversion technologies include utilizing expertise in both fermentation and catalysis.  The chemicals pipeline includes the development of chemicals and intermediates that are currently produced from petrochemical resources as well as new-to-the-market bio-based products. The Company’s current portfolio includes products that are in the early development phase and those that are close to pilot plant demonstration. In an effort to further advance the development of bio-based chemical technologies, the Company has partnered with the Center for Environmentally Beneficial Catalysis and has added research capabilities at the University of Kansas.



Environmental Compliance



During the year endedDecember 31, 2014, $50 million was spent specifically to improve equipment, facilities, and programs for pollution control and compliance with the requirements of various environmental agencies.



There have been no material effects upon the earnings and competitive position of the Company resulting from compliance with federal, state, and local laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment.



The Company’s business could be affected in the future by national and global regulation or taxation of greenhouse gas emissions. In the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has adopted regulations requiring the owners and operators of certain facilities to measure and report their greenhouse gas emissions.  The U.S. EPA has also begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary and mobile sources under the Clean Air Act.  For example, the U.S. EPA has proposed rules regarding the construction and operation of boilers, which could indirectly affect the Company by limiting the construction of new coal-fired boilers and significantly increasing the complexity and cost of modifying any existing coal-fired boilers.  California is also moving forward with various programs to reduce greenhouse gases.  Globally, a number of countries that are parties to the Kyoto Protocol have instituted or are considering climate change legislation and regulations. Most notable is the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System. The Company has several facilities in Europe that participate in this system.  It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage, or predict the potential impact, of any additional legislation. Potential consequences could include increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment.



Number of Employees



The number of full-time employees of the Company was approximately 33,900 atDecember 31, 2014and 31,100 atDecember 31, 2013.  The net increase in the number of full-time employees is primarily related to acquisitions.



Financial Information About Foreign and U.S. Operations



Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 2, “Properties,” includes information relating to the Company’s foreign and U.S. operations.  Geographic financial information is set forth in Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.




















Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)





Available Information



The Company’s website is http://www.adm.com.  The Company makes available, free of charge, through its website, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; Directors and Officers Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



In addition, the Company makes available, through its website, the Company’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, and Executive Committees.



References to our website address in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.  Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.



The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC.  The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov.





