Item 1.BUSINESS



Company Overview



Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the Company) was incorporated in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels Linseed Co. founded in 1902.  The Company is one of the world’s largest processors of oilseeds, corn, wheat, and other agricultural commodities and is a leading manufacturer of protein meal, vegetable oil, corn sweeteners, flour, biodiesel, ethanol, and other value-added food and feed ingredients.  The Company also has an extensive global grain elevator and transportation network to procure, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, as well as processed agricultural commodities.  The Company has significant investments in joint ventures.  The Company expects to benefit from these investments, which typically aim to expand or enhance the Company’s market for its products or offer other benefits including, but not limited to, geographic or product line expansion.



The Company’s vision is to be the most admired global agribusiness while creating value and growing responsibly.  The Company’s strategy involves expanding the volume and diversity of crops that it merchandises and processes, expanding the global reach of its core model, and expanding its value-added product portfolio.  The Company desires to execute this vision and these strategies by conducting its business in accordance with its core values of operating with integrity, treating others with respect, achieving excellence, being resourceful, displaying teamwork, and being responsible.



Segment Descriptions



The Company’s operations are organized, managed, and classified into four reportable business segments: Agricultural Services, Corn Processing, Oilseeds Processing, and Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients.  Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered.  The Company’s remaining operations are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other.  Financial information with respect to the Company’s reportable business segments is set forth in Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



Effective January 1, 2015, the Company has formed a fourth reportable business segment, Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients.  Results of the Wild Flavors businesses (Wild Flavors) and Specialty Commodities, Inc. (SCI), which were acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, are reported in this segment in addition to results of certain product lines previously reported in the Agricultural Services, Corn Processing, and Oilseeds Processing business segments.  Prior period results of the product lines previously reported in the other reportable business segments have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.


















































Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Agricultural Services



The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive global grain elevator and transportation networks, and port operations to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry.  The Agricultural Services segment includes international agricultural commodities merchandising and handling activities managed through a global trade desk based in Rolle, Switzerland.  Agricultural Services’ grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Company’s customers and agricultural processing operations.  Agricultural Services’ transportation network capabilities include barge, ocean-going vessel, truck, and rail freight services.  The Agricultural Services segment also includes the activities related to structured trade finance and the processing of wheat into wheat flour.   In May 2015, the Company acquired the remaining interests in North Star Shipping and Minmetal which operate export facilities at the Romanian Port of Constanta on the Black Sea.



The Company has a32.2%interest in Pacificor (formerly Kalama Export Company LLC).  Pacificor owns and operates a grain export elevator in Kalama, WA and a grain export elevator in Portland, OR.



The Company has a19.8%interest in GrainCorp Limited (GrainCorp), a publicly-listed company on the Australian Stock Exchange.  GrainCorp is engaged in grain receival and handling, transportation, port operations, oilseed processing, malt processing, flour processing, and grain marketing activities.



Corn Processing





Almidones Mexicanos S.A., in which the Company has a 50% interest, operates a wet corn milling plant in Mexico.



Red Star Yeast Company, LLC produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the United States and Canada.  The Company has a 40% ownership interest in this joint venture.




































Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Oilseeds Processing





The Company has an equity interest in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly listed company.  During the year, the Company acquired additional shares, increasing its ownership interest from 17.3% to 19.0%.  Wilmar, a leading agribusiness group in Asia, is engaged in the businesses of oil palm cultivation, oilseeds crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, specialty fats, oleo chemicals, biodiesel and fertilizers manufacturing, and grains processing.



Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between the Company and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America.  The Company has a 50% ownership interest in this joint venture.



The Company has a 50% interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between the Company and Princes Limited to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom.  The Company also formed a joint venture with Princes Limited in Poland to procure, package, and sell edible oils in Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Austria.



The Company is a major supplier of agricultural commodity raw materials to Wilmar, Stratas Foods LLC, and Edible Oils Limited.



Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients



The Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients segment engages in the manufacturing, sales, and distribution of specialty products including natural flavor ingredients, flavor systems, natural colors, proteins, emulsifiers, soluble fiber, polyols, hydrocolloids, natural health and nutrition products, and other specialty food and feed ingredients.  The Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients segment also includes the activities related to the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans.  The Company’s Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients segment includes the activities of Wild Flavors and SCI, which were acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 and Eatem Foods, a leading developer and producer of premium traditional, natural, and organic savory flavor systems, which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2015.




































Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Other



Other includes the Company’s remaining operations, primarily its financial business units, related to futures commission and insurance activities.



ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges in the U.S.  ADM Investor Services International, Limited, a member of several commodity exchanges and clearing houses in Europe, ADMIS Hong Kong Limited, and ADMIS Singapore Pte. Limited, are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company offering broker services in Europe and Asia.



Captive insurance includes Agrinational Insurance Company (Agrinational) and its subsidiaries.  Agrinational, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, credit, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company.  Agrinational also participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements and retains a portion of the crop insurance risk written by ADM Crop Risk Services, a wholly owned subsidiary.  ADM Crop Risk Services is a managing general agent which sells and services crop insurance policies to farmers.



Corporate



Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates (CIP), in which the Company has a 43.7% interest, is a joint venture which targets investments in food, feed ingredients, and bioproducts businesses.



Methods of Distribution



The Company’s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers’ facilities.  The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation capability to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world.  The Company owns or leases large numbers of the trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used to transport the Company’s products to its customers.



Concentration of Revenues by Product



The following products account for 10% or more of revenues for the following periods:



% of RevenuesYears Ended December 31,201520142013Soybeans16%16%18%Soybean Meal13%13%11%Corn11%10%9%



Status of New Products



The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products.  Recent acquisitions especially in the Wild Flavors and Specialty Ingredients segment expand the Company’s ability to serve the customers’ evolving needs through its offering of natural flavor and ingredient products.  The Company does not expect any of its new products to have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues in 2016.



Source and Availability of Raw Materials



Substantially all of the Company’s raw materials are agricultural commodities.  In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as changes in weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  The Company’s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and Africa, pursuant primarily to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis.  The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials.






Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses



The Company owns patents, trademarks, and licenses, including approximately $209 million of trademarks from the Wild Flavors acquisition in 2014, but does not consider any segment of its business dependent upon any single or group of patents, trademarks or licenses.



Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers



Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in overall global processing volumes and the sale and distribution of its products and services.  There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company’s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, sugarcane, and other grains.



The prices of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly, directly affect the Company’s working capital requirements.  Because the Company has a higher portion of its operations in the northern hemisphere, principally North America and Europe, relative to the southern hemisphere, primarily South America, inventory levels typically peak after the northern hemisphere fall harvest and are generally lower during the northern hemisphere summer months.  Working capital requirements have historically trended with inventory levels.  No material part of the Company’s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers.  The Company has seasonal financing arrangements with farmers in certain countries around the world.  Typically, advances on these financing arrangements occur during the planting season and are repaid at harvest.



Competition



The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, foreign exchange rates, quality, global supply, and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company.  Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis, focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company’s asset portfolio.



Research and Development Expenditures



The Company’s research and development expenditures are focused on responding to demand from customers’ product development or formulation needs, improving processing efficiency, and developing food, feed, fuel, and industrial products from renewable agricultural crops.  Research and development expense during the years endedDecember 31, 2015,2014, and2013, net of reimbursements of government grants, was approximately$122 million,$79 million, and$59 million, respectively.  The increase in 2014 and 2015 is due principally to research and development activities of the recently acquired Wild Flavors.



Recent acquisitions have significantly increased the Company’s laboratories and technical centers around the world that greatly enhance the Company’s ability to interact with customers in Europe, Asia, and South America, not only to provide flavors, but also to support the sales of other food ingredients.  In addition, the acquisition of Wild Flavors approximately doubled the number of scientists and technicians in research and development.  A number of these laboratories are being expanded with new capabilities to enhance the Company’s ability to develop custom solutions for our customers.



The Company is working with the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory and other key academic and corporate partners on projects to demonstrate carbon capture and sequestration as a viable option for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from manufacturing operations.  The first project, Illinois Basin Decatur Project, started operations in the first quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and successfully completed injecting 1 million tons of CO2in the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.  The second project, the Illinois Industrial Carbon Capture & Sequestration, commenced construction in the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended December 31, 2015.  This second facility obtained the underground injection control permit in November 2014 and is expected to receive authorization to start injection in the first quarter of fiscal year 2016.














Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



The Company is continuing to invest in research to develop a broad range of industrial chemicals with an objective to produce key chemical building blocks that serve as a platform for producing a variety of commodity chemicals.  The key chemical building blocks are derived from the Company’s starch and oilseed-based feedstocks.  Conversion technologies include utilizing expertise in both fermentation and catalysis.  The chemicals pipeline includes the development of chemicals and intermediates that are currently produced from petrochemical resources as well as new-to-the-market bio-based products. The Company’s current portfolio includes products that are in the early development phase and those that are close to pilot plant demonstration. In an effort to further advance the development of bio-based chemical technologies, the Company has partnered with the Center for Environmentally Beneficial Catalysis and has added research capabilities at the University of Kansas.



Environmental Compliance



During the year endedDecember 31, 2015, $61 million was spent specifically to improve equipment, facilities, and programs for pollution control and compliance with the requirements of various environmental agencies.



There have been no material effects upon the earnings and competitive position of the Company resulting from compliance with applicable laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment.





Number of Employees



The number of full-time employees of the Company was approximately 32,300 atDecember 31, 2015and 33,900 atDecember 31, 2014.  The net decrease in the number of full-time employees is primarily related to the sale of the Company’s cocoa and chocolate businesses partially offset by acquisitions.



Financial Information About Foreign and U.S. Operations



Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 2, “Properties,” includes information relating to the Company’s foreign and U.S. operations.  Geographic financial information is set forth in Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.



Available Information



The Company’s website is http://www.adm.com.  The Company makes available, free of charge, through its website, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; Directors and Officers Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



In addition, the Company makes available, through its website, the Company’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, and Executive Committees.



References to our website address in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.  Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.






Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC.  The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov.





