Item 1.BUSINESS



Company Overview



Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the Company) was incorporated in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels Linseed Co. founded in 1902.  The Company is one of the world’s largest processors of oilseeds, corn, wheat, cocoa, and other agricultural commodities and is a leading manufacturer of protein meal, vegetable oil, corn sweeteners, flour, biodiesel, ethanol, and other value-added food and feed ingredients.  The Company also has an extensive global grain elevator and transportation network to procure, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, as well as processed agricultural commodities.  The Company has significant investments in joint ventures.  The Company expects to benefit from these investments, which typically aim to expand or enhance the Company’s market for its products or offer other benefits including, but not limited to, geographic or product line expansion.



The Company’s vision is to be the most admired global agribusiness while creating value and growing responsibly.  The Company’s strategy involves expanding the volume and diversity of crops that it merchandises and processes, expanding the global reach of its core model, and expanding its value-added product portfolio.  The Company seeks to serve vital needs by connecting the harvest to the home and transforming crops into food and energy products.  The Company desires to execute this vision and these strategies by conducting its business in accordance with its core values of operating with integrity, treating others with respect, achieving excellence, being resourceful, displaying teamwork, and being responsible.



On May 3, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company determined that, in accordance with its Bylaws and upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Company’s fiscal year shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year, starting on January 1, 2013. The required transition period of July 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 is included in this Form 10-K report.  Amounts included in this report for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the six months ended December 31, 2011 are unaudited.



Segment Descriptions



The Company’s operations are classified into three reportable business segments: Oilseeds Processing, Corn Processing, and Agricultural Services.  Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered.  The Company’s remaining operations are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other.  Financial information with respect to the Company’s reportable business segments is set forth in Note 18 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



Oilseeds Processing





The Company has a 16.4% ownership interest in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly   listed company.  Wilmar, a leading agribusiness group in Asia, is engaged in the businesses of oil palm cultivation, oilseeds crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, specialty fats, oleo chemicals, biodiesel and fertilizers manufacturing, and grains processing.








Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



The Oilseeds Processing segment also includes activities related to the procurement, transportation and processing of cocoa beans into cocoa liquor, cocoa butter, cocoa powder, chocolate, and various compounds in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa for the food industry.



Golden Peanut Company LLC (Golden Peanut), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a major supplier of peanuts and peanut-derived ingredients to both the U.S. and export markets and operator of a peanut shelling facility in Argentina.  The Company began consolidating the operating results of Golden Peanut in the third quarter of fiscal 2011.



Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between the Company and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America.  The Company has a 50% ownership interest in this joint venture.



The Company has a 50% interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between the Company and Princes Limited to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom.  The Company also formed a joint venture with Princes Limited in Poland to procure, package, and sell edible oils in Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Austria.



The Company is a major supplier of agricultural commodity raw materials to Wilmar, Stratas Foods LLC, and Edible Oils Limited.



Corn Processing





Almidones Mexicanos S.A., in which the Company has a 50% interest, operates a wet corn milling plant in Mexico.



Eaststarch C.V. (Netherlands), in which the Company has a 50% interest, owns interests in companies that operate wet corn milling plants in Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia, and Turkey.



Red Star Yeast Company, LLC produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the United States and Canada.  The Company has a 40% ownership interest in this joint venture.



Agricultural Services



The Agricultural Services segment utilizes its extensive U.S. grain elevator, global transportation network, and port operations to buy, store, clean, and transport agricultural commodities, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, rice, and barley, and resells these commodities primarily as food and feed ingredients and as raw materials for the agricultural processing industry.  Agricultural Services’ grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network provides reliable and efficient services to the Company’s customers and agricultural processing operations. Agricultural Services’ transportation network capabilities include barge, ocean-going vessel, truck, and rail freight services.



The Company has a 45% interest in Kalama Export Company LLC, a grain export elevator in Kalama, WA.



Alfred C. Toepfer International (Toepfer), in which the Company has an 80% interest, is a global merchandiser of agricultural commodities and processed products.  Toepfer consists of a headquarters in Hamburg, Germany and 36 sales offices worldwide.  Toepfer operates inland, river, and export facilities in Argentina, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, and the United States.








Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



The Agricultural Services segment also includes the activities related to the origination and processing of wheat into wheat flour, the processing and distribution of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products, and the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans.



The Company has a 19.8% interest in GrainCorp Limited (GrainCorp), a publicly-listed company on the Australian Stock Exchange.  GrainCorp is engaged in grain receival and handling, transportation, port operations, malt processing, flour processing, and grain marketing activities.



Prior to December 2012, the Company had a 23.2% interest in Gruma S.A.B. de C.V. (Gruma), the world’s largest producer and marketer of corn flour and tortillas.  Additionally, the Company had joint ventures in corn flour and wheat flour mills with and through Gruma.  In December 2012, the Company sold its 23.2% interest in Gruma and the Gruma-related joint ventures.



Other



Other includes the Company’s remaining operations, primarily its financial business units, related principally to futures commission merchant activities and captive insurance.



ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges in the U.S.  ADM Investor Services International, Ltd., a member of several commodity exchanges and clearing houses in Europe, ADMIS Hong Kong Limited, and ADMIS Singapore Pte. Limited, are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company offering broker services in Europe and Asia.  ADMISI Commodities Private Limited, in which the Company owns a 51% interest, and ADMISI Forex India Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, offer broker services in India.  Monument Securities Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company offering broker services in the United Kingdom.



Captive insurance includes Agrinational Insurance Company (Agrinational) and ADM Crop Risk Services.  Agrinational, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, credit, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company and participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements.  Agrinational retains an immaterial portion of the crop insurance risk after third-party reinsurance.  ADM Crop Risk Services, a wholly owned subsidiary, is a managing general agent which sells and services crop insurance policies to farmers.



Corporate



Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates (CIP), of which the Company has a 43.7% interest, is a joint venture which targets investments in food, feed ingredients and bioproducts businesses.



Methods of Distribution



The Company’s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers’ facilities.  The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation capability to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world.  The Company owns or leases large numbers of the trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used to transport the Company’s products to its customers.








Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Concentration of Revenues by Product



The following products account for 10% or more of revenues for the following periods:



% of RevenuesYears Ended December 31,Six Months EndedDecember 31,Years Ended     June 30,201320122012201120122011Soybeans18%20%20%17%19%21%Corn9%11%10%12%11%12%Soybean Meal11%11%11%8%9%9%



Status of New Products



The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products.  The Company does not expect any of its new products to have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues in 2014.



Source and Availability of Raw Materials



Substantially all of the Company’s raw materials are agricultural commodities.  In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as changes in weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  The Company’s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and Africa, pursuant primarily to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis.  The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials.



Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses



The Company owns patents, trademarks, and licenses but does not consider any segment of its business dependent upon any single or group of patents, trademarks or licenses.



Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers



Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in overall global processing volumes and the sale and distribution of its products and services.  There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company’s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, cocoa beans, sugarcane, and other grains.



The price of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly, directly affects the Company’s working capital requirements.  Because the Company has a higher portion of its operations in the northern hemisphere, principally North America and Europe, relative to the southern hemisphere, primarily South America, inventory levels typically peak after the northern hemisphere fall harvest and are generally lower during the northern hemisphere summer months.  Working capital requirements have historically trended with inventory levels.  No material part of the Company’s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers.  The Company has seasonal financing arrangements with farmers in certain countries around the world.  Typically, advances on these financing arrangements occur during the planting season and are repaid at harvest.



Competition



The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, quality, and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company.  Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis, focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company’s asset portfolio.








Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Research and Development Expenditures



The Company’s research and development expenditures are focused on responding to demand from customers’ product development or formulation needs, improving processing efficiency, and developing food, feed, fuel, and industrial products from renewable agricultural crops.  Research and development expense during the years endedDecember 31, 2013and2012, the six months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, net of reimbursements of government grants, was approximately$59 million,$55 million,$28 million,$29 million,$56 million, and$60 million, respectively.  The Company does not expect these research and development activities to have a significant effect on revenues in the next year.



The Company is working with the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory and other key academic and corporate partners on projects to demonstrate carbon capture and sequestration as a viable option for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from manufacturing operations.  The first project, Illinois Basin Decatur Project led by Midwest Geological Sequestration Consortium started operations in the first quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.  The second project, the Illinois Industrial Carbon Capture & Sequestration commenced construction in the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. This facility is expected to be operational when the Environmental Protection Agency permits are finalized.



The Company is continuing to invest in research to develop a broad range of industrial chemicals with an objective to produce key chemical building blocks that serve as a platform for producing a variety of commodity chemicals.  The key chemical building blocks are derived from the Company’s starch and oilseed-based feedstocks.  Conversion technologies include utilizing expertise in both fermentation and catalysis.  The chemicals pipeline includes the development of chemicals and intermediates that are currently produced from petrochemical resources as well as new-to-the-market bio-based products. The Company’s current portfolio includes products that are in the early development phase and those that are close to pilot plant demonstration. In an effort to further advance the development of bio-based chemical technologies, the Company has partnered with the Center for Environmentally Beneficial Catalysis and has added research capabilities at the University of Kansas.



Environmental Compliance



During the year endedDecember 31, 2013, $85 million was spent specifically to improve equipment, facilities, and programs for pollution control and compliance with the requirements of various environmental agencies.



There have been no material effects upon the earnings and competitive position of the Company resulting from compliance with federal, state, and local laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment.



The Company’s business could be affected in the future by national and global regulation or taxation of greenhouse gas emissions. In the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has adopted regulations requiring the owners of certain facilities to measure and report their greenhouse gas emissions, and the U.S. EPA has begun a process to regulate these emissions under the Clean Air Act.  The U.S. EPA has also adopted rules regarding the construction and operation of new boilers that could greatly limit the construction of new coal-fired boilers.  California is also moving forward with various programs to reduce greenhouse gases.  Globally, a number of countries that are parties to the Kyoto Protocol have instituted or are considering climate change legislation and regulations. Most notable is the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System. The Company has several facilities in Europe that participate in this system.  It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage, or predict the potential impact, of any additional legislation. Potential consequences could include increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment.



Number of Employees



The number of full-time employees of the Company was approximately 31,100 atDecember 31, 2013and 30,600 atDecember 31, 2012.  The net increase in the number of full-time employees is primarily related to the acquisition or start-up of new facilities and new requirements in Brazil that require the Company to classify a significant number of its seasonal workforce as full-time employees.



Financial Information About Foreign and U.S. Operations



Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 2, “Properties,” includes information relating to the Company’s foreign and U.S. operations.  Geographic financial information is set forth in Note 18 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.






Item 1.BUSINESS (Continued)



Available Information



The Company’s internet address is http://www.adm.com.  The Company makes available, free of charge, through its website, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; Directors and Officers Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



In addition, the Company makes available, through its website, the Company’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, and Executive Committees.



References to our website address in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.  Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.



The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC.  The SEC’s internet address is http://www.sec.gov.





