ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS



An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings before you decide whether to buy our common stock. The risks identified below are not all encompassing but should be considered in establishing an opinion of our future operations.  If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock.



Risks Related to Our Business and Operations



Our inability to protect our systems and data from continually evolving cybersecurity risks or other technological risks could affect our reputation among our merchant clients and cardholders and may expose us to penalties, fines, liabilities and legal claims.



In order to provide our services, we process and store sensitive business information and personal information about our merchants, merchants’ customers, ISOs, vendors, partners and other parties. This information may include credit and debit card numbers, bank account numbers, social security numbers, driver’s license numbers, names and addresses, and other types of personal information or sensitive business information. Some of this information is also processed and stored by our merchants, ISOs, third-party service providers to whom we outsource certain functions, and other agents (which we refer to collectively as our "associated third parties"). We have responsibility to the card networks and their member financial institutions for our failure or the failure of our associated third parties to protect this information.  While plans and procedures are in place to protect this sensitive data, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful and will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats that are designed to breach our systems in order to gain access to confidential information.



Our computer systems and our associated third parties’ computer systems have been, and could be in the future, subject to penetration, and our data protection measures may not prevent unauthorized access. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are often difficult to detect. Threats to our systems and our associated third parties’ systems can derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Computer viruses can be distributed and could infiltrate our systems or those of our associated third parties. In addition, denial of service or other attacks could be launched against us for a variety of purposes, including to interfere with our services or create a diversion for other malicious activities. Our defensive measures may not prevent unauthorized access or use of sensitive data. While we maintain first- and third-party insurance coverage that may cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses.



We could also be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing purposes and violation of data privacy laws. We cannot provide assurance that the contractual requirements related to security and privacy that we impose on our service providers who have access to merchant and customer data will be followed or will be adequate to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of data. In addition, we have agreed in certain agreements to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of merchant and consumer data. The costs of systems and procedures associated with such protective measures may increase and could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Any failure to adequately enforce or provide these protective measures could result in liability, protracted and costly litigation and, with respect to misuse of personal information of our merchants and consumers, lost revenue and reputational harm.



Any type of security breach, attack or misuse of data described above or otherwise, whether experienced by us or an associated third party, could harm our reputation and deter existing and prospective customers from using our services or from making electronic payments generally, increase our operating expenses in order to contain and remediate the incident, expose us to unbudgeted or uninsured liability, disrupt our operations (including potential service interruptions), distract our management, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, result in the imposition of penalties and fines under state, federal and foreign laws or by the card networks, and adversely affect our continued card network registration and financial institution sponsorship. Our removal from networks' lists of PCI DSS compliant service providers could mean that existing merchant customers, sales partners or other third parties may cease using or referring our services. Also, prospective merchant customers, sales partners or other third parties may choose to terminate negotiations with us, or delay or choose not to consider us for their processing needs. In addition, the card networks could refuse to allow us to process through their networks.



For example, in2012, we self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system and potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from U.S. merchants who applied for processing services. As a result of this event, we were temporarily removed from certain card networks' lists of PCI DSS











compliant service providers until the third quarter of fiscal 2013. We incurred approximately$114.2 millionof cumulative expenses, net of insurance recoveries, relating to the incident, which also resulted in inquiries from governmental entities.



The payment processing industry is highly competitive, and some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources than we do, which may give them an advantage in our market with respect to the pricing of services offered to our customers and the ability to develop new technologies.



We operate in the electronic payments market, which is highly competitive.  In this market, our primary competitors include other independent payment processors, as well as financial institutions, ISOs and, potentially, card networks. Many of our competitors are companies that are larger than we are, with greater financial and operational resources than we have. Our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a direct member for participation in the card networks and may be able to settle transactions more quickly for merchants than we can. These financial institutions may also provide payment processing services to merchants at a loss in order to generate banking fees from the merchants. It is also possible that larger financial institutions could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. These attributes may provide them with a competitive advantage in the market.



Furthermore, we are facing increasing competition from non-traditional competitors who offer certain innovations in payment methods. Some of these competitors utilize proprietary software and service solutions. Others partner with traditional merchant acquirers to provide tablet-based solutions with payment processing services. Some of these non-traditional competitors have significant financial resources and robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. In addition, some non-traditional competitors, such as private companies or startup companies, may be less risk averse than we are and, therefore, may be able to respond more quickly to market demands. If these non-traditional competitors gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. These competitors may compete in ways that minimize or remove the role of traditional card networks, processors and/or point-of-sale software in the electronic payments process.



In order to remain competitive and to continue to increase our revenues and earnings, we must continually and quickly update our services, a process that could result in higher costs and the loss of revenues, earnings and customers if the new services do not perform as intended or are not accepted in the marketplace.



The electronic payments markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs.  In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects, including the development of a new authorization platform, mobile payment applications, e-commerce services and other new offerings emerging in the electronic payments industry.  These projects carry the risks associated with any development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance problems.  In the electronic payments markets, these risks are even more acute.  Any delay in the delivery of new services or the failure to differentiate our services could render them less desirable to our customers, or possibly even obsolete.  Furthermore, as the market for alternative payment processing services evolves, it may develop too rapidly or not rapidly enough for us to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new services targeted at this market.



In addition, the services we deliver to the electronic payments markets are designed to process very complex transactions and deliver reports and other information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Any failure to deliver an effective and secure product or any performance issue that arises with a new product or service could result in significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. As a result of these factors, our development efforts could result in higher costs that could reduce our earnings in addition to a loss of revenue and earnings if promised new services are not delivered timely to our customers or do not perform as anticipated. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies.



Our revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept Visa cards and MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued Visa and MasterCard registration and financial institution sponsorship and, in some cases, continued membership in certain card networks.



In order to provide our Visa and MasterCard transaction processing services, we must be either a direct participant or be registered as a merchant processor or service provider of Visa and MasterCard.  Registration as a merchant processor or service provider is dependent upon our being sponsored by Members of each organization.  If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those services or we would need to attain direct membership with the card networks, either of which could prove to be difficult and expensive.  If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship or attain direct membership, we may no longer be able to provide processing services











to affected customers, which would negatively affect our revenues and earnings.  Furthermore, some agreements with our bank sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. Our bank sponsors' discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In connection with direct membership, the rules and regulations of various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would limit our use of capital for other purposes.



We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If we are unable to maintain clearing services with these financial institutions and are unable to find a replacement, our business may be adversely affected.



We rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If such financial institutions should stop providing clearing services, we must find other financial institutions to provide those services. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution we may no longer be able to provide processing services to certain customers, which could negatively affect our revenue and earnings.



If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations.  If our merchants or ISOs incur fines or penalties that we cannot collect from them, we may have to bear the cost of such fines or penalties.



.



Our systems and our third-party providers' systems may fail, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business, increase our costs and expose us to liability.



We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer systems, software, data centers and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties. A system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Not only would we suffer damage to our reputation in the event of a system outage or data loss, but we may also be liable to third parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist acts, war, unauthorized entry, human error, and computer viruses or other defects.  Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures, or other difficulties (including those related to system relocation) could result in loss of revenue, loss of customers, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities, negative publicity, additional operating and development costs, fines and other sanctions imposed by card networks, and/or diversion of technical and other resources.



We may experience software defects, undetected errors, and development delays, which could damage customer relations, decrease our potential profitability and expose us to liability.



Our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays and the underlying software may contain undetected errors, viruses or defects.  Defects in our software services and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential customers, harm to our reputation and exposure to liability claims.













In addition, we rely on technologies and software supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Increased merchant, referral partner or ISO attrition could cause our financial results to decline.



We experience attrition in merchant credit and debit card processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, transfers of merchants' accounts to our competitors, unsuccessful contract renewal negotiations and account closures that we initiate for various reasons, such as heightened credit risks or contract breaches by merchants. If an ISO partner switches to another transaction processor, terminates our services, internalizes payment processing functions that we perform, merges with or is acquired by one of our competitors, or shuts down or becomes insolvent, we may no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO. We cannot predict the level of attrition in the future and it could increase. Our referral partners are a significant source of new business. Higher than expected attrition could negatively affect our results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



In order for us to continue to grow and increase our profitability, we must continue to expand our share of the existing electronic payments markets and also expand into new markets.



Our future growth and profitability depend upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion of these markets, the emergence of other markets for electronic transaction payment processing and our ability to penetrate these markets. As part of our strategy to achieve this expansion, we look for acquisition opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition, investment and alliance candidates in the future, and if we do, they may not provide us with the value and benefits we anticipate.



Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure services and distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets.  If we fail to expand into new and existing electronic payments markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings.



There may be a decline in the use of cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the card industry in general.



If consumers do not continue to use credit or debit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards, and debit cards, which is adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Consumer credit risk may make it more difficult or expensive for consumers to gain access to credit facilities such as credit cards. Regulatory changes may result in financial institutions seeking to charge their customers additional fees for use of credit or debit cards. Such fees may result in decreased use of credit or debit cards by cardholders. In each case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.  We believe future growth in the use of credit and debit cards and other electronic payments will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of services offered to consumers and businesses.  In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use electronic payment methods that we process, including credit and debit cards.



We incur chargeback liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers.  Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder.  If we are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant's account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder.  The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment.  We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future.  Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have policies to manage merchant-related credit risk and often mitigate such risk by requiring collateral and monitoring transaction activity. Notwithstanding our programs and policies for managing credit











risk, it is possible that a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business.



Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.



We have potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others.  Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit or debit card, card number, or other credentials to record a false sales or credit transaction, processes an invalid card, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our chargeback liability or cause us to incur other liabilities.  It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future.  Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.



We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles and credit risk of our customers and the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



The global electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income and changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate or increases in interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenues and profits. If our merchants make fewer sales of their services using electronic payments or people spend less per transaction, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower amounts, resulting in lower revenues.



A downturn in the economy could force retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Furthermore, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and be more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards. We also have a certain amount of fixed and other costs, including rent, debt service, and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. Changes in economic conditions could also adversely affect our future revenues and profits and cause a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



In addition, a recessionary economic environment could affect our merchants through a higher rate of bankruptcy filings, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our associated third parties are also liable for any fines or penalties that may be assessed by any card networks. In the event that we are not able to collect such amounts from our merchants or the associated third parties, due to fraud, breach of contract, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such charges.



Reject losses arise from the fact that, in most markets, we collect our fees from our merchants on the first day after the monthly billing period. This results in the build-up of a substantial receivable from our customers. If a merchant has gone out of business during the billing period, we may be unable to collect such fees, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Increases in credit card network fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in our earnings.



From time-to-time, the card networks, including Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees that they charge processors.  We could attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings.  If competitive practices prevent us from passing along the higher fees to our merchant customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases, thereby increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings.



Any new implementation of or changes made to laws, regulations, card network rules or other industry standards affecting our business in any of the geographic regions in which we operate may require significant development efforts or have an unfavorable effect on our financial results.



Our business is affected by laws and regulations and examinations that affect us and our industry in the countries in which we operate.  Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years.  Failure to comply with regulations or guidelines may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines, or may cause customers or potential customers to be reluctant to do business with us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.











For example, we are subject to the card network rules of Visa, MasterCard and other card networks, Interac, and various debit networks; applicable privacy and information security regulations in the regions where we operate and of the card networks;  the Payment Services Directive in Europe; The Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card Industry in Canada (issued by Canada's Department of Finance); the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 in the United States, which requires information returns to be made for each calendar year by merchant acquiring entities; and a myriad of U.S. federal and state consumer protection laws and state escheat regulations.  We are also subject to examination by the FFIEC as a result of our provision of data processing services to financial institutions.



Interchange fees (which are typically paid by the acquirer to the issuer in connection with transactions) are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law in July 2010, significantly changed the U.S. financial regulatory system. Changes affecting the payment processing industry include restricting amounts of debit card fees that certain issuing institutions can charge merchants and allowing merchants to set minimum amounts for the acceptance of credit cards and to offer discounts for different payment methods. These restrictions could negatively affect the number of debit transactions, which would adversely affect our business.  The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"), which has assumed responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has the authority to determine whether any nonbank financial company, such as us, should be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve") on the ground that it is "systemically important "to the U.S. financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business, which increases our risk profile and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.





In many countries, we are legally or contractually required to comply with the anti-money laundering laws and regulations, such as, in the United States, the BSA, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, and similar laws of other countries, which require that customer identifying information be obtained and verified. In some countries, we are directly subject to these requirements; in other countries, we have contractually agreed to assist our sponsor banks with their obligation to comply with any-money laundering requirements that apply to them. In addition, we and our sponsor banks are subject to the laws and regulations enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), which prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in transactions with certain prohibited persons or entities. Similar requirements apply in other countries. Our failure to comply with any of these contractual requirements or laws could adversely affect our business, financial credit and results of operations.



Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, even if not directed at us, may require significant efforts to change our systems and services and may require changes to how we price our services to customers, adversely affecting our business.  Even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our business or our reputation. Furthermore, we are subject to tax laws in each jurisdiction where we conduct business. Changes in such laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive, the value of tax losses and tax credit carry forwards recorded on our balance sheet and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.













We are subject to risks associated with changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and we may not effectively hedge against these risks.



We have incurred significant indebtedness that accrues interest at a variable rate, and we may incur additional variable-rate indebtedness in the future. Increases in interest rates will reduce our operating cash flows and could hinder our ability to fund our operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or dividends. We are also subject to risks related to the changes in currency exchange rates as a result of our investments in foreign operations and from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenue and profit generated by international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Volatility in currency exchange rates has affected and may continue to affect our financial results.



In addition, in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign currency into U.S. dollars or limit our ability to freely move currency in or out of particular jurisdictions.  The occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.



We may seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates through the use of hedging arrangements. To the extent that we hedge our interest rate or foreign currency exchange rate exposures, we forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates were to change in our favor. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and foreign exchange rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. In addition, a counterparty to the arrangement could default on its obligation, thereby exposing us to credit risk. We may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate these arrangements. Finally, our interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if such rates move materially differently from our expectations.



We conduct a portion of our business in various European and Asia-Pacific countries, including the Russian Federation, where the risk of continued political, economic and regulatory change that could affect our operating results is greater than in the United States.



We expect to continue to expand our operations into various countries in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.  Some of these countries, and other foreign countries in which we operate, such as the Russian Federation, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years, and the risk of new, unforeseen changes in these countries remains greater than in the United States. Our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by instability or changes in a country’s or region’s economic conditions; changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise; increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict; or action by the European Union or the United States, Canada or other governments that may restrict our ability to transact business in a foreign country or with certain foreign individuals or entities, such as sanctions by or against the Russian Federation.



In addition, transmittal of data by electronic means and telecommunications is subject to specific regulation in many countries.  Although these regulations have not had a material effect on us to date, changes in these regulations, including taxation or limitations on transfers of data between countries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



The integration and conversion of our acquired operations, or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating both businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process.



The acquisition, integration, and conversion of businesses involve a number of risks.  Core risks are in the area of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration and conversion (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, services, technology and other assets to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems, and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with foreign regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of those new markets; and general economic and political conditions.













If the integration and conversion process does not proceed smoothly, the following factors, among others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in a loss of projected synergies:



•If we are unable to successfully integrate the benefits plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors in the region, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration;

•If the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers to our competitors, which would reduce our revenues and earnings; and

•The acquisition and the related integration could divert the attention of our management from other strategic matters including possible acquisitions and alliances and planning for new product development or expansion into new electronic payments markets.



The costs and effects of pending and future litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.



We are from time-to-time involved in various litigation matters and governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in pending or future litigation or similar matters under various laws. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.



In our rapidly developing legal framework, we rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop software or technology competitive to us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete.



We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our services and technology infringe upon another party’s proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our services or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our services or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could limit our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims and require us to design around a third party’s patent, which may not be possible, or to license alternative technology from another party, which may be costly. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees.



Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or changes to enacted tax rates could adversely affect our tax expense.



Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities.   An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively affecting our results of operations.  We have recognized estimated liabilities on the balance sheet for material known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item.  These liabilities reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority.  While we believe that the liabilities are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial cost less than any related liability.  An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods.



We record deferred income taxes to reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial accounting and income tax purposes. Deferred income taxes are determined using enacted tax rates. Changes in enacted tax rates may negatively affect our results of operations.













We may become subject to additional U.S., state or foreign taxes that cannot be passed through to our merchant services customers, in which case our earnings could be adversely affected.



As a payment processing company we are or may be subject to taxation by various jurisdictions on our net income or certain portions of our fees charged to customers for our services.  Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and the taxing authorities have not yet all adopted uniform regulations on this topic.  If we are required to pay such taxes and are not able to pass the tax expense through to our merchant customers, our costs will increase, reducing our earnings.



We have structured our business in accordance with existing tax laws and interpretations of such laws which have been confirmed through either tax rulings or opinions obtained in various jurisdictions, including those related to value-added taxes in Europe.  Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive and the amount of our cash flows and have a material adverse effect on our business.



Risks Related to Our Organizational and Capital Structure



If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected.



All of our businesses function at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that requires a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. To successfully compete and grow, we must recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of intellectual capital needs. In addition, we must develop our personnel to fulfill succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. We cannot assure that key personnel, including executive officers, will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



The Company's debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business.



Our credit facilities contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability in certain circumstances to, among other things:



•incur additional indebtedness;

•create liens;

•consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;

•enter into certain lines of business; and

•enter into certain transactions with affiliates.



Our credit facilities also contain customary financial covenants based on our leverage ratio and our fixed charge coverage ratio.



A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of the revolving credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our credit facilities could accelerate the repayment of borrowings, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities as well as our other indebtedness.



Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.



As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets are intangible assets (including goodwill).  Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately35.4%of the total assets on our balance sheet as ofMay 31, 2015. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill.  We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets may be impaired.  Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to record an impairment











charge, which would negatively affect our earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.



We may not be able to or we may decide not to pay dividends or repurchase shares at a level anticipated by shareholders of our common stock, which could reduce shareholder returns.



The extent to which we pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock in the future is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other factors, our earnings, shareholders' equity, cash position, and financial condition.  No assurance can be given that we will be able to or will choose to pay any dividends or repurchase any shares in the foreseeable future.



Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.



We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Accordingly, our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor and manage our risks.  If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in identifying and mitigating all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer uninsured liability, harm to our reputation or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.



Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report.  If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.



Further, this assessment may be complicated by any acquisitions we may complete.  In certain markets, including, without limitation, China, the Republic of Malta and Spain, our member sponsors perform payment processing operations and related support services pursuant to services agreements.  We expect that the member sponsors will continue to provide these services until such time as we may integrate these functions into our operations.  Accordingly, we rely on our member sponsors to provide financial data, such as amounts billed to merchants, to assist us with compiling our accounting records.  As such, our internal control over financial reporting could be materially affected, or are reasonably likely to be materially affected, by the internal control and procedures of our member sponsors in these markets.  In order to mitigate this risk, we have implemented internal controls over financial reporting which monitor the accuracy of the financial data being provided by our member sponsors.



While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the market's perception of our business and our stock price.



Anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of Georgia law could delay or prevent a change of control that individual shareholders favor.



Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of applicable Georgia law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that shareholders may consider favorable.  The provisions of our articles and by-laws, among other things:



•divide our Board of Directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms;

•limit the right of shareholders to remove directors;

•regulate how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of shareholders; and

•authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares in one or more series, without shareholder approval.













ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES



The following summarizes by segment the type and number of facilities we use to operate our business as ofMay 31, 2015:

Type of FacilityLeasedOwnedNorth America merchant services:Multi-purpose (operations, sales, administrative) offices17—Sales offices3—20—International merchant services:Multi-purpose (operations, sales, administrative) offices202Sales offices17—372Total572



Our principal facilities in the United States are located in Atlanta, Georgia; Owings Mills, Maryland; Pleasant Grove, Utah and Las Vegas, Nevada. Our principal international facilities are located in Brisbane, Australia; Toronto, Canada; Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China; Prague, Czech Republic; Leicester, England; London, England; Dublin, Ireland; Manila, Philippines; Moscow, Russia; and Barcelona, Spain.



We believe that all of our facilities and equipment are suitable and adequate for our business as presently conducted.





ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



We are party to a number of claims and lawsuits incidental to our business. In our opinion, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from the outcome of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

















Part II



ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES



Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "GPN."  The table set forth below provides the intraday high and low sales prices and dividends paid per share of our common stock for the four quarters during fiscal2015and2014.  We expect to continue to pay our shareholders a dividend per share, on a quarterly basis, in an amount comparable to the dividends indicated in the table.  However, any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.

HighLowDividendPer ShareFiscal 2015:First Quarter$74.46$67.34$0.02Second Quarter86.7168.600.02Third Quarter92.9977.150.02Fourth Quarter106.0687.680.02Fiscal 2014:First Quarter$49.75$44.84$0.02Second Quarter64.4147.350.02Third Quarter70.7761.220.02Fourth Quarter73.8464.660.02



As ofJuly 22, 2015, there were2,113shareholders of record.



Equity Compensation Plan Information



The information regarding our compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance is set forth in "Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" of this Annual Report.



Sale of Unregistered Securities



We did not issue any unregistered securities during the year endedMay 31, 2015.



Stock Performance Graph



The following graph compares our cumulative shareholder returns with the Standard & Poor's Information Technology Index and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index for the five years endedMay 31, 2015.  The line graph assumes the investment of $100 in our common stock, the Standard & Poor's Information Technology Index and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index on May 31, 2010 and assumes reinvestment of all dividends.











*$100 invested on May 31, 2010 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending May 31.

Copyright© 2013 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.



GlobalPaymentsS&P500S&PInformationTechnologyMay 31, 2010$100.00$100.00$100.00May 31, 2011123.38125.95121.13May 31, 2012101.05125.43130.30May 31, 2013114.29159.64150.00May 31, 2014163.59192.28185.84May 31, 2015249.30214.99220.80



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



During the year endedMay 31, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the additional repurchase of up to$302.3 millionof our common stock. Under these and other existing authorizations, we repurchased and retired4.5 millionshares of our common stock at a cost of$369.0 millionincluding commissions, or an average price of$81.99per share, during the year endedMay 31, 2015.











Information about the shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the quarter endedMay 31, 2015is set forth below:

MonthNumber of Shares PurchasedAverage Price per ShareNumber of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or ProgramsDollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(in millions)March 2015380,626$90.80380,626April 2015880,52797.65880,527May 2015———1,261,153$95.591,261,153$102.9



In addition to the shares we repurchased on the open market as set forth in the table above, during the quarter endedMay 31, 2015, pursuant to our employee incentive plans, we repurchased2,388shares at an average price per share of$98.48in order to satisfy employees’ tax withholding and payment obligations in connection with the vesting of awards of restricted stock, which we repurchased at fair market value on the vesting date.





ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



You should read the selected financial data set forth below in conjunction with "Item 7 ‑ Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8 ‑ Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  The income statement data for the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014, and2013and the balance sheet data as ofMay 31, 2015and2014are derived from the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.  The income statement data for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 and the balance sheet data as of May 31, 2013 and 2012 were derived from consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2013.  The balance sheet data as of May 31, 2011 was derived from audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2012. Amounts related to our discontinued operations in our statements of income for fiscal year 2011 were reclassified in fiscal year 2012 to conform to the current presentation.

Year Ended May 31,20152014201320122011(in thousands, except per share data)Income statement data:Revenues$2,773,718$2,554,236$2,375,923$2,203,847$1,859,802Operating income456,597405,499357,213307,349331,594Net income309,115269,952238,713217,566229,131Net income attributable to Global Payments278,040245,286216,125188,161209,238Per share data:Basic earnings per share$4.15$3.40$2.78$2.39$2.62Diluted earnings per share4.123.372.762.372.60Dividends per share0.080.080.080.080.08Balance sheet data (at year end):Total assets$5,793,548$4,018,650$3,125,056$2,688,143$3,350,531Short-term lines of credit592,629440,128187,461215,391270,745Long-term debt1,742,5001,393,679963,469312,985354,019Total equity863,5531,132,7991,286,6071,300,9211,337,817



Operating income, net income, net income attributable to Global Payments and basic and diluted earnings per share in the table above include the effects of a processing system intrusion credit of $7.0 million (pre-tax) during the year endedMay 31, 2014and charges of $36.8 million (pre-tax) and $84.4 million (pre-tax) for the years ended May 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.













ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the future.  Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking statements as a result of many known and unknown factors, including but not limited to those discussed in "Item 1A - Risk Factors" of this Annual Report.  See "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" located above "Item 1 - Business."



You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with  "Item 6 - Selected Financial Data" and "Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report.



General



We are a leading worldwide provider of payment technology services delivering innovative solutions to our customers. Our partnerships, technologies and employee expertise enable us to provide a broad range of services that allow our customers to accept various payment types. We distribute our services across a variety of channels to merchants and partners in29countries throughout North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil.  We provide payment and digital commerce solutions and operate intworeportable segments: North America merchant services and International merchant services. Based on growth, strategic acquisitions and a realigned management structure, beginning in fiscal 2016, we replaced our International merchant services segment with two new segments: Europe and Asia-Pacific. Accordingly, in fiscal 2016, we will begin presenting three geographic segments - North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific.



We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in2000and spun-off from our former parent company in2001.  Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payments business since1967. Global Payments Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries are referred to collectively as "Global Payments," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us," unless the context requires otherwise.



Our North America merchant services and International merchant services segments target customers in many industries including financial services, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, not-for-profit organizations and utilities.



Our offerings enable merchants to accept card, electronic, check and digital-based payments at the point of sale. Our primary business model provides payment services directly to merchants as our customers. We also provide similar services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn, resell our services, in which case the financial institutions and select ISOs are our customers. These particular services are marketed in the United States, Canada and parts of Europe.



The majority of merchant services revenue is generated on services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type. We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value.



Our services are marketed through a variety of sales channels that include a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and enterprise software providers and referral arrangements with value-added resellers, ISOs, as well as proprietary telesales groups.  We seek to leverage the continued shift to electronic payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels or through acquisitions in North America, the Asia-Pacific region and Europe, and investing in and leveraging technology and people, thereby maximizing shareholder value.  We also seek to enter new markets through acquisitions in Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and the Latin America region.



Our business does not have pronounced seasonality in which more than 30% of our revenues occur in one fiscal quarter.  However, each geographic channel has somewhat higher and lower quarters given the nature of the portfolio. While there is some variation in seasonality across markets, the first and fourth fiscal quarters are generally the strongest, and the third fiscal quarter tends to be the weakest due to lower volumes processed in the months of January and February.













Executive Overview



In fiscal2015, revenues increased8.6%to$2,773.7 millionfrom$2,554.2 millionin fiscal2014, reflecting growth in most of our markets despite the unfavorable effect of currency fluctuations.



Consolidated operating income was$456.6 millionfor fiscal2015compared to$405.5 millionfor fiscal2014. Net income attributable to Global Payments increased$32.8 million, or13.4%, to$278.0 millionin fiscal2015from$245.3 millionin the prior year. Diluted earnings per share increased$0.75to$4.12in fiscal2015from$3.37in fiscal2014.



North America merchant services segment revenues increased$159.9 million, or8.8%, to$1,968.9 millionin fiscal2015from$1,809.0 millionin fiscal2014.  North America merchant services segment operating income increased to$293.1 millionin fiscal2015from$272.3 millionin fiscal2014, with operating margins of14.9%and15.0%for fiscal2015and2014, respectively. The growth in the North America merchant services segment was primarily due to growth in our U.S. direct distribution channels, including our integrated solutions business, which also reflects the addition of Payment Processing, Inc. ("PayPros"), partially offset by unfavorable effects of currency fluctuations in Canada.



International merchant services segment revenues increased$59.6 million, or8.0%, to$804.8 millionin fiscal2015from$745.2 millionin fiscal2014. International merchant services operating income increased to$279.7 millionin fiscal2015from$240.2 millionin fiscal2014, with operating margins of34.8%and32.2%for fiscal2015and2014, respectively.  The growth in the International merchant services segment for fiscal2015included growth in both Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Revenue growth in Europe was driven primarily by card transaction and volume growth and a decrease in interchange rates in Spain, an increase in service fees in the United Kingdom and growth in our e-commerce channel, partially offset by the unfavorable effect of currency fluctuations and weakness in Russia. Revenue growth in the Asia-Pacific region was primarily due to growth in card transactions and volume, including increases from the acquisition of Ezi Holdings Pty Ltd ("Ezidebit"), as described below, partially offset by the unfavorable effect of currency fluctuations.



OnOctober 10, 2014, we completed the acquisition of Ezidebit for AUD302.6 millionin cash ($266.0 millionequivalent as of the acquisition date).  This acquisition was funded by a combination of cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility.  Ezidebit is a leading integrated payments company focused on recurring payments verticals in Australia and New Zealand. Ezidebit markets its services through a network of integrated software vendors and direct channels to numerous vertical markets. We acquired Ezidebit to establish a direct distribution channel in Australia and New Zealand and to further enhance our existing integrated solutions offerings.



OnMarch 25, 2015, we acquired approximately95%of the outstanding shares of Pay and Shop Limited for €110.2 millionin cash ($118.9 millionequivalent as of the acquisition date) funded by borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Pay and Shop Limited, which does business as Realex Payments, is a leading European online payment gateway technology provider based in Dublin, Ireland. This transaction furthers our strategy to provide omni-channel solutions that combine gateway services, payment service provisioning and merchant acquiring across Europe.



OnSeptember 30, 2014, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Certegy Check Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS"), to acquire substantially all of the assets of its gaming business related to licensed gaming operators (the "FIS Gaming Business"). OnJune 1, 2015, after the end of fiscal 2015, we completed the acquisition, which includes approximately260gaming client locations, for$237.5 millionin cash, funded from borrowings on our revolving credit facility and cash on hand. We acquired the FIS Gaming Business to expand our direct distribution and service offerings in the gaming industry.



OnDecember 17, 2014, we announced an agreement with Bank of the Philippine Islands ("BPI") to provide merchant acquiring and payment services in the Philippines. We believe this arrangement will enable us to expand our direct distribution in the Philippines, further leverage our technological strengths and provide superior product and service offerings to customers in the Philippines. Under this arrangement, BPI will contribute its existing merchant acquiring business to our subsidiary in the Philippines, Global Payments Asia-Pacific Philippines Incorporated ("GP Philippines"), in return for a49%ownership interest in GP Philippines and a cash payment of$3.6 million. We will retain a controlling51%interest in GP Philippines. We expect the acquisition to close late in the first quarter of fiscal2016, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of customary closing conditions.













OnJuly 27, 2015, we announced an agreement with CaixaBank, S.A. ("CaixaBank") and Erste Group Bank AG (“Erste Group”) to form a venture to provide merchant acquiring and payment services in three core Central and Eastern Europe locations: the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic and Romania.  As part of the agreement, Global Payments and CaixaBank will form an entity, of which Global Payments will have a51percent majority interest.  This newly formed entity will pay €30 million($33 millionequivalent as of the agreement date) in cash to acquire a51percent majority ownership in the venture with Erste Group, which will contribute its existing merchant acquiring businesses in each of thethreecountries to the venture and hold a49percent interest. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of fiscal2016, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of customary closing conditions.



See "Note3- Business and Intangible Asset Acquisitions and Joint Ventures" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these acquisitions.





Results of Operations



Revenues



The majority of merchant services revenue is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type.  We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number or value of transactions. These revenues depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the technological competitiveness of our offerings, our reputation for providing timely and reliable service, competition within our industry and general economic conditions.



In direct merchant acquiring, we provide payment services to merchants and fund settlement either directly, in markets where we have direct membership with the payment networks, or through our relationship with a member bank in markets where we are sponsored.  Revenues for direct merchant services are recognized in the amount of merchant billing net of interchange. We market our direct merchant services through a variety of sales channels, including a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and enterprise software providers and referral arrangements with value-added resellers, which we generally refer to as "direct distribution." We also sell through our ISO channel, in which case, the ISO receives a share of the merchant profitability in the form of a monthly residual payment, which is reflected as a component of selling, general and administrative expense.



In indirect merchant acquiring, the partner, typically a financial institution or an ISO, is our customer.  We provide payment services to the indirect customer's merchants, but do not provide sponsorship or funds settlement.  We bill the indirect customer fees for transactions and various other services, which are recognized as revenue.



Operating Expenses



Cost of Service



Cost of service consists primarily of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to operations and technology-related personnel, including those who monitor our transaction processing systems and settlement functions; assessments and other fees paid to card networks; the cost of transaction processing systems, including third-party services; the cost of network telecommunications capability; depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities performing these functions; amortization of intangible assets and provisions for operating losses.



Selling, General and Administrative Expenses



Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of commissions paid to ISOs, independent contractors and other third parties; salaries, wages and related expenses paid to sales personnel, non-revenue producing customer support functions, administrative employees and management; other selling expenses; occupancy costs of leased space directly related to these functions; share-based compensation expense and advertising costs.











Operating Income and Operating Margin



For the purpose of discussing segment operations, we refer to "operating income," which is calculated by subtracting segment direct expenses from segment revenues. Overhead and shared expenses, including share-based compensation, are not allocated to segment operations; they are reported in the caption "Corporate." Similarly, we refer to "operating margin" regarding segment operations, which is calculated by dividing segment operating income by segment revenues.



Fiscal Year EndedMay 31, 2015Compared to Fiscal Year EndedMay 31, 2014



The following table sets forth key selected financial data for the years endedMay 31, 2015and2014, this data as a percentage of total revenues, and the changes between fiscal years in dollars and as a percentage of fiscal2014.

(dollar amounts in thousands)2015% of Revenue(1)2014% of Revenue(1)Change% ChangeRevenues:United States$1,655,87259.7%$1,488,65958.3%$167,21311.2%Canada313,01811.3%320,33312.5%(7,315)(2.3)%North America merchant services1,968,89071.0%1,808,99270.8%159,8988.8%Europe615,96622.2%587,46323.0%28,5034.9%Asia-Pacific188,8626.8%157,7816.2%31,08119.7%International merchant services804,82829.0%745,24429.2%59,5848.0%Total revenues$2,773,718100%$2,554,236100%$219,4828.6%Consolidated operating expenses:Cost of service$1,022,10736.8%$952,22537.3%$69,8827.3%Selling, general and administrative1,295,01446.7%1,203,51247.1%91,5027.6%Processing system intrusion——%(7,000)(0.3)%7,000(100.0)%Operating income$456,59716.5%$405,49915.9%$51,09812.6%Operating income (loss) for segments:North America merchant services$293,139$272,251$20,8887.7%International merchant services279,711240,17939,53216.5%Corporate(2)(116,253)(106,931)(9,322)8.7%Operating income$456,597$405,499$51,09812.6%Operating margin for segments:North America merchant services14.9%15.0%(0.1)%International merchant services34.8%32.2%2.6%(1)Percentage amounts may not sum to the total due to rounding.

(2)Includes a processing system intrusion credit of $7.0 million in fiscal 2014.



Revenues



For fiscal2015revenues increased8.6%to$2,773.7 millioncompared to the prior year, reflecting growth in most of our markets, partially offset by the unfavorable effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For the year endedMay 31, 2015, currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our revenues by$78.4 millioncompared to the prior year, calculated by converting fiscal2015revenues in local currency using fiscal2014exchange rates.











North America Merchant Services Segment. For fiscal2015, revenues from our North America merchant services segment increased8.8%to$1,968.9 millioncompared to the prior year despite the effect of the unfavorable effect of currency fluctuations in Canada. U.S. revenue growth was driven by growth in our direct distribution channels, including our integrated solutions business, which also reflects the addition of PayPros.



For fiscal2015, Canada revenues decreased2.3%to$313.0 milliondue to the unfavorable effect of changes in exchange rates, which outweighed revenue growth achieved in local currency resulting from stable business performance and selective pricing initiatives.



International Merchant Services Segment.For fiscal2015, International merchant services revenues increased8.0%to$804.8 millioncompared to the prior year despite the effect of unfavorable currency fluctuations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Our Europe merchant services revenues for fiscal2015increased4.9%to$616.0 millioncompared to the prior year driven primarily by card transaction and volume growth and a decrease in interchange rates in Spain, service fee growth in the United Kingdom and growth in our e-commerce channel, partially offset by the unfavorable effect of changes in exchange rates and weakness in Russia.



Asia-Pacific merchant services revenues for fiscal2015increased19.7%to$188.9 millioncompared to the prior year due largely to card transaction and volume growth, including the addition of Ezidebit, partially offset by the unfavorable effect of changes in exchange rates.



Operating Expenses



Cost of Service.Cost of service increased7.3%during fiscal2015compared to the prior year. As a percentage of revenues, cost of service decreased to36.8%for fiscal year2015compared to37.3%in the prior year. The increase in cost of service for fiscal2015was driven primarily by an increase in the variable costs associated with revenue growth and additional intangible asset amortization and other incremental cost of service associated with our acquisitions of PayPros and Ezidebit, partially offset by favorable effects of changes in exchange rates.



Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.Selling, general and administrative expenses increased7.6%during fiscal2015compared to the prior year. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to46.7%for fiscal year2015from47.1%in the prior year. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal2015was primarily due to an increase in commission payments to third-party sales partners and incremental costs related to our acquisitions of PayPros and Ezidebit.



Processing System Intrusion.In March 2012, we self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system and potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from U.S. merchants who applied for processing services. During fiscal2014, we recorded a credit of$7.0 millionfor insurance recoveries related to the processing system intrusion.



Operating Income and Operating Margin for Segments



North America Merchant Services Segment.Operating income in North America merchant services segment increased7.7%to$293.1 millionfor fiscal2015compared to the prior year despite the effect of unfavorable currency fluctuations in Canada. The increase in operating income was primarily due to growth in our U.S. direct distribution channels, including the addition of PayPros to our integrated solutions business, partially offset by intangible asset amortization and other incremental operating costs associated with PayPros and the unfavorable effect of exchange rate fluctuations in Canada. The operating margin was14.9%and15.0%for the fiscal years2015and2014, respectively.



International Merchant Services Segment.Operating income in International merchant services segment increased16.5%to$279.7 millionfor fiscal2015compared to the prior year despite the effect of unfavorable currency fluctuations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. The increase in operating income was driven primarily by revenue growth in Spain and the United Kingdom, as well as the incremental operating income from our acquisition of Ezidebit, partially offset by the unfavorable effect of exchange rate fluctuations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region and weakness in Russia. The operating margin was34.8%and32.2%for the fiscal years2015and2014, respectively. The increase in operating margin reflects increased profitability in Spain, higher margin service fee income in the United Kingdom and the addition of Ezidebit.











Corporate. Corporate expenses increased8.7%to$116.3 millionfor fiscal2015compared to the prior year primarily due to settlement of a legal claim in Europe during fiscal2015and a credit of$7.0 millionassociated with the processing system intrusion recorded in fiscal2014.



Operating Income



During fiscal2015, our consolidated operating income increased12.6%to$456.6 millionfrom$405.5 millionin the prior year.  The increase was primarily due to revenue growth in our North America and International merchant services segments partially offset by higher variable costs of services associated with revenue growth, higher intangible asset amortization and other incremental operating costs associated with PayPros and Ezidebit and the unfavorable effect of exchange rate fluctuations. Operating income for fiscal2014also reflects the effect of the processing system intrusion credit of$7.0 million.



Other Income/Expense, Net



Other expense, net, increased to$39.5 millionfor fiscal2015compared to$28.1 millionin the prior year. The increase is primarily due to a$10.5 millionincrease in interest expense on our long-term debt and other credit facilities, resulting from an increase in average balances outstanding under those debt facilities, and an increase in equity method losses on investments in unconsolidated entities, partially offset by a reversal of interest expense of$3.6 millionthat had been accrued related to an unrecognized tax benefit. As ofMay 31, 2015, we eliminated the liability for an unrecognized tax benefit and reduced Interest and other expense in the year endedMay 31, 2015in our accompanying consolidated statement of income. See "Note 8 - Income Tax" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



During fiscal2014, we recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of$2.1 millionin connection with the refinancing of our term loan and revolving credit facilities. In addition, during fiscal2014, we made a final dividend payment to HSBC Asia in the amount of$3.3 millionrelated to a redeemable noncontrolling interest that HSBC Asia held in Global Payments Asia-Pacific. The dividend was reflected as interest expense in our consolidated statements of income. See "Note3- Business and Intangible Asset Acquisitions and Joint Ventures-Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest Acquisition" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



During fiscal2014, we recorded a$2.1 milliongain in connection with the sale of 50% of our subsidiary in Brazil. See "Note3- Business and Intangible Asset Acquisitions and Joint Ventures-Comercia Global Payments Brazil" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



Provision for Income Taxes



Our effective tax rates were25.9%and28.5%for fiscal2015and2014, respectively. The effective tax rate for fiscal year2014reflects the reduction to the carrying amount of certain U.K. deferred tax assets due to enacted corporate tax rate reductions in the United Kingdom of3percentage points. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income generated in international jurisdictions with lower tax rates.



Noncontrolling Interests, Net of Tax



Noncontrolling interests, net of tax increased to$31.1 millionfor fiscal2015compared to$24.7 millionin the prior year. The increase is due primarily to income growth in Spain conducted through Comercia Global Payments, of which we own a controlling 51% interest.









Fiscal Year EndedMay 31, 2014Compared to Fiscal Year EndedMay 31, 2013



The following table shows key selected financial data for the years ended May 31, 2014 and 2013, this data as a percentage of total revenues, and the changes between fiscal years in dollars and as a percentage of fiscal 2013.

(dollar amounts in thousands)2014% of Revenue(1)2013% of Revenue(1)Change% ChangeRevenues:United States$1,488,65958.3%$1,394,67558.7%$93,9846.7%Canada320,33312.5%311,00013.1%9,3333.0%North America merchant services1,808,99270.8%1,705,67571.8%103,3176.1%Europe587,46323.0%522,59322.0%64,87012.4%Asia-Pacific157,7816.2%147,6556.2%10,1266.9%International merchant services745,24429.2%670,24828.2%74,99611.2%Total revenues$2,554,236100.0%$2,375,923100.0%$178,3137.5%Consolidated operating expenses:Cost of service$952,22537.3%$862,07536.3%$90,15010.5%Selling, general and administrative1,203,51247.1%1,119,86047.1%83,6527.5%Processing system intrusion(7,000)(0.3)%36,7751.5%(43,775)(119.0)%Operating income$405,49915.9%$357,21315.0%$48,28613.5%Operating income (loss) for segments:North America merchant services$272,251$258,910$13,3415.2%International merchant services240,179211,24228,93713.7%Corporate(2)(106,931)(112,939)6,008(5.3)%Operating income$405,499$357,213$48,28613.5%Operating margin for segments:North America merchant services15.0%15.2%(0.2)%International merchant services32.2%31.5%0.7%

(1)Percentage amounts may not sum to the total due to rounding.

(2)Includes a processing system intrusion credit of$7.0 millionin fiscal 2014 and a charge of$36.8 millionin fiscal 2013.



Revenues



For fiscal2014, revenues increased7.5%to$2,554.2 millioncompared to the prior year, reflecting growth in all of our markets. Our revenues were affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For fiscal2014, currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our revenues by$10.8 millioncompared to the prior year, calculated by converting fiscal2014revenues in local currency using fiscal2013rates.



North America Merchant Services Segment. For fiscal2014, revenues from our North America merchant services segment increased6.1%to$1,809.0 millioncompared to the prior year. North America revenue growth was driven by our U.S. direct distribution channels, including PayPros, as well as our ISO channels and growth in Canada. We grew our U.S. revenues primarily by adding small and mid-market merchants in diversified vertical markets.  For fiscal2014, our U.S. credit and debit card processed transactions grew6.6%compared to the prior year, excluding the effect of PayPros.











For fiscal2014, our Canadian revenues increased3.0%to$320.3 millionprimarily due to credit card transaction growth and assessment-based pricing changes, partially offset by unfavorable changes in exchange rates. For fiscal2014, our total Canadian transactions grew2.5%compared to the prior year, including4.6%growth in credit card transactions.



International Merchant Services Segment.For fiscal2014, International merchant services revenues increased11.2%to$745.2 millioncompared to the prior year. Our Europe merchant services revenues for fiscal2014increased12.4%to$587.5 millioncompared to the prior year driven primarily by transaction growth in all markets as well as growth in our e-commerce services. Asia-Pacific merchant services revenues for fiscal2014increased6.9%to$157.8 millioncompared to the prior year due largely to pricing increases and new assessments.



Operating Expenses



Cost of Service.Cost of service increased10.5%during fiscal2014compared to the prior year, driven primarily by an increase in the variable costs associated with revenue growth and an increase in amortization expense associated with our acquisitions of Accelerated Payment Technologies ("APT") and PayPros. As a percentage of revenues, cost of service increased to37.3%for fiscal year2014from36.3%in the prior year.



Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.Selling, general and administrative expenses increased7.5%during fiscal2014compared to the prior year primarily due to an increase in commission payments to ISOs, incremental costs related to our acquisitions of APT and PayPros, acceleration of equity awards and other costs associated with the retirement of our former chairman and chief executive officer and charges related to employee termination benefits. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained unchanged at47.1%for fiscal2014compared to fiscal2013.



Processing System Intrusion.During fiscal2014, we recorded a credit of$7.0 millionrelated to insurance recoveries associated with the processing system intrusion described above, and during fiscal2013, we recorded a$36.8 millioncharge related to the incident.



Operating Income and Operating Margin for Segments



North America Merchant Services Segment.Operating income in North America merchant services segment increased5.2%to$272.3 millionfor fiscal2014compared to the prior year. The increase in operating income was primarily due to the increases in transactions and volume in our U.S. direct distribution channels, as well as growth in Canada. This increase was partially offset by amortization and other incremental costs associated with our acquisitions of APT and PayPros and unfavorable changes in exchange rates in Canada. The operating margin was15.0%and15.2%for the fiscal years2014and2013, respectively.



International Merchant Services Segment.Operating income in International merchant services segment increased13.7%to$240.2 millionfor fiscal2014compared to the prior year.  The increase in operating income was driven primarily by increased transactions and volume in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region as well as pricing increases in the Asia-Pacific region. The operating margin was32.2%and31.5%for the fiscal years2014and2013, respectively.



Corporate. Our corporate expenses decreased5.3%to$106.9 millionfor fiscal2014compared to the prior year primarily due a decrease in costs associated with the processing system intrusion partially offset by higher data security expenses and share-based compensation expense. Corporate operating expenses includes a processing system intrusion credit of$7.0 millionfor fiscal2014and a charge of$36.8 millionfor fiscal2013.











Operating Income



During fiscal2014, our consolidated operating income increased13.5%to$405.5 millionfrom$357.2 millionin the prior year.  The increase was primarily due to revenue growth in our North America and International merchant services segments offset by higher variable costs of services associated with revenue growth, higher amortization and other incremental costs associated with acquisitions, higher data security expenses and acceleration of equity awards and other costs associated with the retirement of our former chairman and chief executive officer and charges related to employee termination benefits. Operating income also reflects the processing system intrusion credit of$7.0 millionand charge of$36.8 millionfor fiscal2014and fiscal2013, respectively.



Other Income/Expense, Net



Other expense, net, increased to$28.1 millionfor fiscal2014compared to$22.9 millionin the prior year. The increase is primarily due to an$8.2 millionincrease in interest expense associated with debt and the loss on extinguishment of debt of$2.1 millionthat we recorded in connection with the refinancing of our term loan and revolving credit facility; offset by a$5.1 millionreduction in the amount of dividends paid to HSBC Asia related to a redeemable noncontrolling interest that HSBC Asia held in Global Payments Asia-Pacific. Such dividends are reflected as interest expense in our consolidated statements of income. See "Note3- Business and Intangible Asset Acquisition and Joint Ventures-Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest Acquisition" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



Provision for Income Taxes



Our effective tax rates were28.5%and28.6%for the years endedMay 31, 2014and2013, respectively.  The effective tax rates for the years endedMay 31, 2014and2013reflect adjustments to our U.K. deferred tax asset due to corporate tax rate reductions in the United Kingdom of 3 percentage points and 2 percentage points, respectively.  Our effective tax rates differ from U.S. statutory rates primarily due to income generated in lower tax jurisdictions due to international expansion.



Noncontrolling Interests, Net of Tax



Noncontrolling interests, net of tax increased to$24.7 millionfor fiscal2014compared to$22.6 millionin the prior year. The increase was due primarily to income growth in Spain conducted through Comercia Global Payments, of which we own a controlling 51% interest.





Liquidity and Capital Resources



A significant portion of our liquidity comes from operating cash flows. Cash flow from operations is used to make planned capital investments in our business, to pursue acquisitions that meet our corporate objectives, to pay dividends, and to pay down debt and repurchase shares of our common stock at the discretion of our Board of Directors.  Accumulated cash balances are invested in high-quality, marketable short-term instruments.



Our capital plan objectives are to support the Company’s operational needs and strategic plan for long-term growth while maintaining a low cost of capital.  Short-term lines of credit are used in certain of our markets to fund settlement.  Other bank financing, such as our corporate credit facility and our term loan, are used for general corporate purposes and to fund acquisitions.  We regularly evaluate our liquidity and capital position relative to cash requirements, and we may elect to raise additional funds in the future, either through the issuance of debt, equity or otherwise.



AtMay 31, 2015, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling$650.7 million. Of this amount, we consider$195.2 millionto be available cash. Available cash excludes$417.2 millionof settlement-related and merchant reserve cash balances. Settlement-related cash balances represent funds that we hold when the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the funding obligation to the merchant. Settlement-related cash balances are not restricted; however, these funds are generally paid out in satisfaction of settlement processing obligations the following day. Merchant reserve cash balances represent funds collected from our merchants that serve as collateral to minimize contingent liabilities associated with any losses that may occur under the merchant agreement ("Merchant Reserves"). AtMay 31, 2015, our cash and cash equivalents included$180.2 millionrelated to Merchant Reserves. While









this cash is not restricted in its use, we believe that designating this cash to collateralize Merchant Reserves strengthens our fiduciary standing with our member sponsors and is in accordance with the guidelines set by the card networks.



Our available cash balance includes$170.3 millionof cash held by foreign subsidiaries whose earnings are considered permanently reinvested for U.S. tax purposes. These cash balances reflect our capital investments in these subsidiaries and the accumulation of cash flows generated by their operations, net of cash flows used to service debt locally and fund acquisitions outside of the United States. We believe that we are able to maintain a sufficient level of liquidity for our domestic operations and commitments without repatriation of the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries.  If we were to repatriate some or all of the cash held by such foreign subsidiaries, we do not believe that the associated income tax liabilities would have a significant effect on our liquidity.



During year endedMay 31, 2015, we changed from the sponsorship model to a direct membership model in several of our global markets. As a result, for these markets, we have recorded the gross positions of settlement assets and obligations atMay 31, 2015in our consolidated balance sheet; whereas, these positions were reflected on a net basis in the prior year. These changes have had the effect of increasing the settlement processing asset and settlement processing obligation positions in our consolidated balance sheet atMay 31, 2015but had no effect on our net financial position or cash flows. In addition, these balances may vary significantly between reporting periods as the balances are affected by the timing of period-end. See "Note2- Settlement Processing Assets and Obligations" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our accounting and presentation of settlement processing assets and obligations.



Operating activities provided net cash of$424.7 millionduring fiscal2015compared to$194.1 millionduring the prior year. The increase in cash flow from operating activities was primarily due to growth in our earnings and changes in working capital, including settlement processing assets and obligations whose net asset position increased significantly more during fiscal2014than during fiscal2015.



Net cash used in investing activities was$440.9 millionduring fiscal2015and$501.7 millionin the prior year. During fiscal2015, we invested net cash of$359.2 millionto acquire Ezidebit, Realex and other assets, including additional investments of$11.4 millionin Global Payments Brazil. In fiscal2014, we acquired PayPros and other assets for$426.5 million. We made capital expenditures of$92.6 millionand$81.4 millionduring fiscal2015and2014, respectively, including$35.1 millionand$39.1 millionof capitalized software development costs. During fiscal2016, we expect capital expenditures to approximate$105.0 million. Cash flows from investing activities also included proceeds of$10.4 millionreceived during fiscal 2015 from the sale of a component of our Russia business that leased automated teller machines.



During fiscal2015, we entered into agreements to acquire businesses in the United States and the Asia-Pacific region: the FIS Gaming Business and the BPI merchant acquiring business, respectively. We completed the acquisition of the FIS Gaming Business onJune 1, 2015for$237.5 millionin cash, which was funded from borrowings on our revolving credit facility and cash on hand. Late in the first quarter of fiscal2016, we expect to complete the acquisition of the BPI merchant acquiring business in return for a49%ownership interest in GP Philippines and a cash payment of$3.6 million.



Financing activities provided net cash of$141.4 millionduring fiscal2015and$218.9 millionin the prior year. During fiscal2015, net borrowings under long-term debt were$347.9 millioncompared to$429.4 millionin the prior year. Borrowings made during fiscal2015were used primarily to fund a portion of our business acquisitions. In fiscal2014, we closed a five-year senior unsecured$1.25 billionterm loan facility, paid off previously existing debt of$902.5 millionand paid fees and expenses of$6.0 million. In connection with the fiscal2014debt refinancing, we entered into a five-year senior unsecured$1 billionrevolving credit facility under which we borrowed$140.0 millionduring the remainder of fiscal 2014. In addition, in fiscal2015, we made net borrowings on short-term lines of credit used to fund settlement of$198.9 millioncompared to$252.7 millionin the prior year. Fluctuations in short-term lines of credit are largely due to the effect of timing of year-end on settlement. Cash flows from financing activities also included common stock repurchases of$372.4 millionduring fiscal2015and$447.3 millionin the prior year and cash used to fund distributions to noncontrolling interests and dividends to our shareholders.



We believe that our current level of cash and borrowing capacity under our debt facilities together with future cash flows from operations, will be sufficient to meet the needs of our existing operations and planned requirements for the foreseeable future.











Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities



We have afive-year senior unsecured$1.25 billionterm loan that bears interest, at our election, at either LIBOR or a base rate, in each case plus a leverage-based margin. We used proceeds from the term loan to partially fund our acquisition of PayPros onMarch 4, 2014and to repay the outstanding balances on our previously existing term loan and revolving credit facility. From May 2015 to November 2018, the term loan has scheduled quarterly principal payments of1.25%, increasing up to2.50%, of the original principal balance. The term loan expires onFebruary 28, 2019. At maturity,27.5%of the term loan will have been repaid through scheduled principal payments and the remaining principal balance will be due. With notice, the term loan may be voluntarily prepaid at any time, in whole or in part, without penalty.



We also have afive-year senior unsecured$1 billionrevolving credit facility that bears interest, at our election, at either LIBOR or a base rate, in each case plus a leverage-based margin. The revolving credit facility is available for general corporate purposes, and borrowing under the corporate credit facility is available in various currencies. The revolving credit facility allows us to issue standby letters of credit of up to$100 millionin the aggregate. Outstanding letters of credit under the revolving credit facility reduce the amount of borrowings available to us. Borrowings available to us under the revolving credit facility are further limited by the covenants described below under "Compliance with Covenants." AtMay 31, 2015and2014, we had standby letters of credit of$7.6 millionand$8.1 million, respectively. The total available incremental borrowings under our revolving credit facility atMay 31, 2015and2014was$484.3 millionand$851.9 million, respectively. The revolving credit facility expires onFebruary 28, 2019.



The agreements contain customary affirmative and restrictive covenants, including, among others, financial covenants based on our leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. See "Compliance with Covenants" below. Each of the agreements includes customary events of default, the occurrence of which, following any applicable cure period, would permit lenders to, among other things, declare the principal, accrued interest and other obligations to be immediately due and payable.



Short-term Lines of Credit



We have short-term lines of credit with banks in the United States and Canada as well as several countries in Europe and Asia that are restricted for use in funding settlement. The credit facilities are generally denominated in local currency but may, in some cases, facilitate borrowings in multiple currencies. For certain of our lines of credit, the line of credit balance is reduced by the amount of cash we have on deposit in specific accounts with the lender when determining the available credit. Accordingly, the amount of the outstanding line of credit may exceed the stated credit limit when the net position is less than the credit limit. As of May 31, 2015, a total of$193.2 millionof cash on deposit was used to determine the available credit.



As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, respectively, we had$592.6 millionand$440.1 millionoutstanding under these short-term lines of credit with additional capacity as ofMay 31, 2015of$567.5 millionto fund settlement. During the year endedMay 31, 2015, the maximum and average outstanding balances under these lines of credit were$1,258.7 millionand$647.3 million, respectively. Our maximum outstanding amount was greater than our period-end balance due to the timing of settlement funding.



Compliance with Covenants



There are certain financial and non-financial covenants contained in our various credit facilities and term loan. Our term loan and corporate credit facility agreements include financial covenants requiring (i) a leverage ratio no greater than3.50to1.00(3.75 to1.00in the case of a business acquisition, subject to certain conditions) and (ii) a fixed charge coverage ratio no less than2.50to1.00. We complied with all applicable covenants as of and for the year endedMay 31, 2015.



See "Note6- Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our borrowing arrangements.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



We have not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interest, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or other obligations under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides us with financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk support other than the guarantee services described under "Critical Accounting Policies" below.











BIN/ICA Agreements



We have entered into sponsorship or depository and processing agreements with certain banks.  These agreements allow us to use the banks' identification numbers, referred to as Bank Identification Number ("BIN") for Visa transactions and Interbank Card Association ("ICA") number for MasterCard transactions, to clear credit card transactions through Visa and MasterCard.  Certain of such agreements contain financial covenants, and we were in compliance with all such covenants as ofMay 31, 2015.



Commitments and Contractual Obligations



The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as ofMay 31, 2015:

Payments Due by Future PeriodTotalLess than 1 Year1-3 Years3-5 Years5+ Years(in thousands)Long-term debt$1,742,500$62,500$203,125$1,476,875$—Interest on long-term debt(1)126,67240,57666,32119,775—Short-term lines of credit592,629592,629———Operating lease obligations(2)57,99813,87820,31514,6339,172Purchase obligations(3)166,54563,53185,74517,269—



(1)Interest on long-term debt is based on rates effective and amounts borrowed as ofMay 31, 2015. The estimated effect of interest rate swaps is included in interest on long-term debt. Since the contractual rates for our long-term debt and interest rate swaps are variable, actual cash payments may differ from the estimates provided.

(2)Includes future minimum lease payments for noncancelable operating leases atMay 31, 2015.

(3)Includes estimate of future payments for contractual obligations related to service arrangements with vendors for fixed or minimum amounts.



The table above excludes other obligations that we may have, such as employee benefit plan obligations, unrecognized tax benefits, and other current and noncurrent liabilities reflected in our consolidated balance sheet.  At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of these payments; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table.





Critical Accounting Policies



Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which often require the judgment of management in the selection and application of certain accounting principles and methods. We consider the following accounting policies to be critical to understanding our consolidated financial statements because the application of these policies requires significant judgment on the part of management, and as a result, actual future developments may be different from those expected at the time that we make these critical judgments. We have discussed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.



Accounting estimates necessarily require subjective determinations about future events and conditions. Therefore, the following descriptions of our critical accounting policies are forward-looking statements, and actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated by these forward-looking statements. You should read the following in conjunction with "Note1- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the risk factors contained in "Item 1A - Risk Factors" of this Annual Report.



Reserve for Operating Losses



We experience losses in our card processing services when we are unable to collect amounts from merchant customers for any charges properly reversed by the card issuing bank. When we are not able to collect these amounts from the merchants due to merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for the reversed charges.  We have historically experienced losses due to merchant defaults. We require cash deposits, guarantees, letters of credit and other types of collateral by certain merchants








to minimize any such contingent liability, and we also utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage merchant risk. We experience check guarantee losses when we are unable to collect the full amount of a guaranteed check from the checkwriter. We refer to both merchant credit losses and check guarantee losses collectively as "operating losses." Please refer to "Note1- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a further explanation of these operating losses.



We record reserves for our estimated liability for operating losses. This estimate of losses is comprised of estimated known losses and estimated incurred but not reported losses. Estimated known losses arise from specific instances of, for example, merchant bankruptcies, closures or fraud of which we are aware at the balance sheet date, but for which the ultimate amount of associated loss will not be determined until after the balance sheet date.  Estimated known loss accruals are recorded when it is probable that we have incurred a loss and the loss is reasonably estimable. Estimated known losses are calculated at the merchant level based on chargebacks received to date, processed volume, and historical chargeback ratios. The estimate is reduced for any collateral that we hold. Accruals for estimated known losses are evaluated periodically and adjusted as appropriate based on actual loss experience. Incurred but not reported losses result from transactions that we process before the balance sheet date for which we have not yet received chargeback notification.  We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to our direct merchant credit card and signature debit card sales volumes processed, or processed volume. Historically, this estimation process has been materially accurate.



For the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, our processed volume for direct merchant acquiring was$207.2 billion,$201.2 billion, and$192.8 billion, respectively. For these same periods, the provision for merchant losses was$4.9 million,$8.7 million, and$9.5 million, respectively. As a percentage of processed volume, these charges were0.0024%,0.0043%, and0.0049%, respectively, during the corresponding periods. For these same years, we experienced actual losses of$5.4 million,$9.3 million, and$9.5 million, respectively. We believe that our estimation process has been materially accurate on a historical basis.  A 10% increase or decrease in our provision for merchant losses as a percentage of processed volume for the year endedMay 31, 2015would have resulted in a decrease or increase in pretax income of$0.5 million.  Further, if our provision for merchant losses as a percentage of processed volume for fiscal2015had equaled our actual merchant losses as a percentage of processed volume of0.0043%for the same prior year period, our income before income taxes would have decreased by$4.0 million. As ofMay 31, 2015and2014,$1.3 millionand$1.7 million, respectively, were recorded for merchant losses and were included in settlement processing obligations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.



In our check guarantee service offering, we charge our merchants a percentage of the gross amount of the check and guarantee payment of the check to the merchant in the event the check is not honored by the checkwriter's bank.  We have the right to collect the full amount of the check from the checkwriter, but have not historically recovered 100% of the guaranteed checks.  Our check guarantee loss reserve is comprised of estimated losses on returned checks and estimated incurred but not reported losses.  We estimate the loss on returned checks by applying historical collection rates to our claims receivable balance.  We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to the face value of our guaranteed checks.  For the years ended

May 31, 2015

,


and


, we guaranteed total check face values of

$2.5 billion

,

$2.6 billion

and

$2.6 billion

, respectively. For those same periods, we recorded provisions for check guarantee losses of

$9.6 million

,

$11.9 million

, and

$11.7 million

, respectively.  As a percentage of the total guaranteed check face value, these charges were

0.38%

,

0.46%

, and

0.44%

, respectively.  For these same years, we experienced actual losses of

$9.9 million

,

$12.1 million

, and

$12.0 million

, respectively.  We believe that our estimation process has been materially accurate on a historical basis.  A 10% increase in our projected loss rate for the year ended

May 31, 2015

would have resulted in a decrease in income before income taxes of

$1.0 million

.  Further, if our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume for fiscal


had equaled our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume of

0.46%

for the same prior year period, our income before income taxes would have decreased by

$2.0 million

.  As of

May 31, 2015

and


, we had a check guarantee reserve of

$2.7 million

and

$3.0 million

, respectively, which is included as a valuation allowance against claims receivable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.



We derive our projected loss rate assumptions primarily based on a rolling six to twelve month analysis of historic loss activity. These assumptions, however, bear the risk of change, which may occur as a result of several qualitative factors.  For merchant losses, these factors include the following: a change in the creditworthiness of our merchant customers; a change in the levels of credit card fraud affecting our merchant customers; and a change in the effectiveness of our internal credit, risk management, and collection departments.  For check guarantee losses, these factors include a change in the levels of dishonored consumer checks presented to our guarantee service merchant customers and a change in the effectiveness of our internal check guarantee procedures, customer acceptance and retention policies, or collection protocols.  Application of our percentage assumptions involve uncertainty regarding








changes in any of the factors above, especially those that are outside of our control, such as the financial health of the economies in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Asia-Pacific region and the Russian Federation at a regional or national level and the related impact on our customers.



Goodwill



Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. We test goodwill for impairment annually as of January 1 and more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. We have the option of performing a qualitative assessment of impairment to determine whether any further quantitative testing for impairment is necessary. The option of whether or not to perform a qualitative assessment is made annually and may vary by reporting unit.



Factors we consider in the qualitative assessment include general macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance of our reporting units, events or changes affecting the composition or carrying amount of the net assets of our reporting units, sustained decrease in our share price, and other relevant entity-specific events. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment or if we determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying value, a two-step quantitative test is required. In the first step, the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, is compared to its fair value. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is greater than its fair value, step two must be performed. Step two measures the impairment loss, if any, by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by assigning the fair value of the reporting unit to all the assets and liabilities of that unit (including unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit is the implied fair value of the goodwill. The excess of the carrying amount over the implied fair value of the goodwill is the impairment loss.



Our assessment of qualitative factors involves significant judgments about expected future business performance and general market conditions.  In a quantitative assessment, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit using a combination of the income approach and the market approach. This requires various assumptions about a reporting unit’s future financial results and cost of capital including discount rates.



We havesixreporting units: North America Merchant Services, U.K. Merchant Services, Asia-Pacific Merchant Services, Central and Eastern Europe Merchant Services, Russia Merchant Services and Spain Merchant Services. As ofJanuary 1, 2015, we performed a qualitative goodwill assessment for each of our reporting units, except Russia merchant services for which we performed a quantitative assessment. Based on our annual test as ofJanuary 1, 2015, we determined on the basis of qualitative factors that the fair values of the reporting units for which we performed a qualitative assessment were not more likely than not less than their respective carrying amounts. Based on a quantitative assessment, we determined that the goodwill of our Russia merchant services unit was not impaired. We believe that the fair values of our reporting units are substantially in excess of their carrying amounts.



Intangible and Long-lived Assets



Other intangible assets primarily represent customer-related intangible assets (such as customer lists and merchant contracts), contract-based intangible assets (such as non-compete agreements, referral agreements and processing rights), acquired technology and trademarks associated with acquisitions. Customer-related intangible assets, contract-based intangible assets and trademarks are amortized over their estimated useful lives ranging from2to26years. The useful lives for customer-related intangible assets are determined based primarily on forecasted cash flows, which include estimates for the revenues, expenses, and customer attrition associated with the assets. The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreements.  The useful lives of amortizable trademarks are based on our plans to phase out the trademarks in the applicable markets.  Acquired technology is amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.



Amortization for most of our customer-related intangible assets is calculated using an accelerated method. In determining amortization expense under our accelerated method for any given period, we calculate the expected cash flows for that period that were used in determining the acquired value of the asset and divide that amount by the expected total cash flows over the estimated life of the asset. We multiply that percentage by the initial carrying amount of the asset to arrive at the amortization expense for that period. If the cash flow patterns that we experience differ significantly from our initial estimates, we adjust the amortization schedule








prospectively. These cash flow patterns are derived using certain assumptions and cost allocations due to a significant amount of asset interdependencies that exist in our business. During fiscal2015, we did not adjust the amortization schedules.



We believe that our accelerated method better approximates the distribution of cash flows generated by our acquired customer relationships.  We use the straight-line method of amortization for our contract-based intangibles and amortizable trademarks.



We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying amount of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may not be recoverable.  When factors indicate that these long-lived assets should be evaluated for possible impairment, we assess the potential impairment by determining whether the carrying amount of such long-lived assets will be recovered through the future undiscounted cash flows expected from use of the asset and its eventual disposition.  If the carrying amount of the asset is determined not to be recoverable and exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recorded, measured as the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount. Fair values are determined based on quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analysis as applicable.  We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the useful lives of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may warrant revision.



Capitalization of Internally Developed Software



We develop software that is used in providing processing services to customers.  Capitalization of internally developed software, primarily associated with operating platforms, occurs when we have completed the preliminary project stage, management authorizes the project, management commits to funding the project, it is probable the project will be completed and the project will be used to perform the function intended.  The preliminary project stage consists of the conceptual formulation of alternatives, the evaluation of alternatives, the determination of existence of needed technology and the final selection of alternatives.  Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred. Currently unforeseen circumstances in software development, such as a significant change in the manner in which the software is intended to be used, obsolescence or a significant reduction in revenues due to merchant attrition, could require us to implement alternative plans with respect to a particular effort, which could result in the impairment of previously capitalized software development costs. The carrying amount of internally developed software, including work in progress, atMay 31, 2015was$181.3 million.  Costs capitalized during fiscal2015,2014and2013totaled$35.1 million,$39.1 million, and$29.2 million, respectively.  Internally developed software is amortized over its estimated useful life, which is typically2to10years.



Our most recently developed front-end merchant authorization processing platform, which was placed into service in fiscal 2010, is replacing several legacy platforms. As ofMay 31, 2015, we have placed into service$101.0 millionof hardware and software associated with our authorization platform,$4.5 millionof which was placed in service during fiscal2015. Depreciation and amortization associated with these costs is calculated based on transactions processed during the period as a percentage of the transactions expected to be processed over the life of the platform. We believe that this method is more representative of the platform's use than the straight-line method.  We are currently processing transactions on this authorization platform in nine markets in our Asia-Pacific region and for a limited number of U.S. merchants.  As these markets represent a small percentage of our overall transactions, depreciation and amortization related to this platform for fiscal2015was not significant.  Depreciation and amortization expense will increase as we complete migrations of other merchants to this authorization platform.



Income Taxes



We determine our provision for income taxes using management's judgments, estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.  Judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. We believe our tax return positions are fully supportable; however, we recognize the benefit for tax positions only when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained based on its technical merits. Issues raised by a tax authority may be resolved at an amount different than the related benefit recognized. When facts and circumstances change (including an effective settlement of an issue or statute of limitations expiration), the effect is recognized in the period of change. A portion of the unrecognized tax benefits that exist atMay 31, 2015would affect our provision for income taxes in the future if recognized. Judgment is required to determine whether or not some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized.  To the extent we determine that we will not realize the benefit of some or all of our deferred tax assets, then these deferred tax assets are adjusted through our provision for income taxes in the period in which this determination is made.










As a result of events that occurred in the fourth quarter of the year endedMay 31, 2015, management concluded that it was more likely than not that the tax positions in a foreign jurisdiction, for which we had recorded estimated liabilities of$65.6 millionin other noncurrent liabilities on our accompanying consolidated balance sheet, would be sustained on their technical merits based on information available as ofMay 31, 2015. Therefore, the liability and corresponding deferred tax assets were eliminated as ofMay 31, 2015. The uncertain tax positions have been subject to an ongoing examination in that foreign jurisdiction by the tax authority. Discussions and correspondence between the tax authority and us during the fourth quarter indicated that the likelihood of the positions being sustained had increased. Subsequent toMay 31, 2015, we received a final closure notice regarding the examination resulting in no adjustments to taxable income related to this matter for the tax returns filed for the periods endedMay 31, 2010throughMay 31, 2013. The unrecognized tax benefits were effectively settled with this final closure notice.



Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements - Recently Issued Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted



From time-to-time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standards setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date. See "Note1- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the notes to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for new accounting guidance.













ITEM 7A - QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK



Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk



A significant amount of our operations is conducted in foreign currencies.  Consequently, our revenues and income generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We are also affected by fluctuations in exchange rates on assets and liabilities related to our foreign operations. We have not historically hedged our translation risk on foreign currency exposure, but we may do so in the future.  For fiscal2015, currency rate fluctuations decreased our revenues by$78.4 millionand our diluted earnings per share by$0.31as compared to the prior year, calculated by converting fiscal2015revenues and expenses in local currency using fiscal2014rates.



Generally, the functional currency of our various subsidiaries is their local currency.  As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations on transactions that are not denominated in the functional currency. Gains and losses on such transactions are included in determining net income for the period. We seek to mitigate our foreign currency risk through timely settlement of transactions and cash flow matching, when possible. For the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, our transaction gains and losses were insignificant.



Additionally, we are affected by currency fluctuations in our funds settlement process on merchant payment, chargeback and card network settlement transactions that are not denominated in the currency of the underlying credit or debit card transaction.  Gains and losses on these transactions are included in revenue for the period.



We are also affected by fluctuations in exchange rates on our investments in foreign operations. Relative to our net investment in foreign operations, the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is a foreign currency are translated at the period-end rate of exchange.  The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income and is included in shareholders' equity.  Transaction gains and losses on intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature are also recorded as a component of other comprehensive income.



Interest Rate Risk



We are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates on our long-term debt and cash investments. We invest our excess cash in securities that we believe are highly liquid and marketable in the short term. These investments earn a floating rate of interest and are not held for trading or other speculative purposes.



We have a term loan and a corporate credit facility that we use for general corporate purposes, as well as various short-term lines of credit that we use to fund settlement in certain of our markets. Interest rates on these debt instruments and short-term lines of credit are based on market rates and fluctuate accordingly. As ofMay 31, 2015, there was$2.3 billionoutstanding under these variable-rate debt arrangements and short-term lines of credit.



The interest earned on our cash investments and the interest paid on our debt are based on variable interest rates; therefore, the exposure of our net income to a change in interest rates is at least partially mitigated as an increase in rates would increase both interest income and interest expense, and a reduction in rates would decrease both interest income and interest expense. Under our current policies, we may selectively use derivative instruments, such as interest rate swaps or forward rate agreements, to manage all or a portion of our exposure to interest rate changes. We have an interest rate swap that reduces a portion of our exposure to market interest rate risk on our LIBOR-based debt as discussed in "Note6- Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities" in the notes to our accompanying consolidated financial statements.



Using theMay 31, 2015balances outstanding under variable-rate debt arrangements, with consideration given to the aforementioned interest rate swap, a hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in applicable interest rates as ofMay 31, 2015would have increased our annual interest expense by approximately$13.8 million.

















ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Global Payments Inc.

Atlanta, Georgia



We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Global Payments Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of May 31, 2015, based on criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.



We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.



A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.



Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.



In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2015, based on the criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.



We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended May 31, 2015 of the Company and our report datedJuly 30, 2015expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule.



/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Atlanta, Georgia

July 30, 2015















REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Global Payments Inc.

Atlanta, Georgia



We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Global Payments Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of May 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2015. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.



We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.



In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Global Payments Inc. and subsidiaries as of May 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2015, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.



We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2015, based on the criteria established inInternal Control-Integrated Framework (2013)issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report datedJuly 30, 2015expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.



/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Atlanta, Georgia

July 30, 2015

















GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(in thousands, except per share data)



Year Ended May 31,201520142013Revenues$2,773,718$2,554,236$2,375,923Operating expenses:Cost of service1,022,107952,225862,075Selling, general and administrative1,295,0141,203,5121,119,860Processing system intrusion—(7,000)36,7752,317,1212,148,7372,018,710Operating income456,597405,499357,213Interest and other income4,94913,66310,353Interest and other expense(44,436)(41,812)(33,282)(39,487)(28,149)(22,929)Income before income taxes417,110377,350334,284Provision for income taxes(107,995)(107,398)(95,571)Net income309,115269,952238,713Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of income tax(31,075)(24,666)(22,588)Net income attributable to Global Payments$278,040$245,286$216,125Earnings per share attributable to Global Payments:Basic earnings per share$4.15$3.40$2.78Diluted earnings per share$4.12$3.37$2.76

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.











GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(in thousands)



Year End May 31,201520142013Net income$309,115$269,952$238,713Other comprehensive income (loss):Foreign currency translation adjustments(220,641)17,03420,629Income tax benefit related to foreign currency translation adjustments12,1523,133582Unrealized losses on hedging activities(10,116)——Reclassification of losses on hedging activities to interest expense3,958——Income tax benefit related to hedging activities2,284——Changes in unrecognized pension benefit costs(691)2362,302Income tax benefit (expense) related to changes in unrecognized pension benefit costs241(63)(785)Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of income tax(212,813)20,34022,728Comprehensive income96,302290,292261,441Less: comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests(2,478)(31,720)(30,378)Comprehensive income attributable to Global Payments$93,824$258,572$231,063

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.















GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands, except share data)





May 31, 2015May 31, 2014



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents$650,739$581,872

Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $468 and $401, respectively202,390214,574

Claims receivable, net548809

Settlement processing assets2,394,822780,917

Inventory5,2286,636

Deferred income taxes11,66412,963

Prepaid expenses and other current assets36,90445,673

Total current assets3,302,2951,643,444

Goodwill1,491,8331,337,285

Other intangible assets, net560,136535,173

Property and equipment, net374,143369,753

Deferred income taxes30,578101,928

Other34,56331,067

Total assets$5,793,548$4,018,650

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Lines of credit$592,629$440,128

Current portion of long-term debt62,50017,677

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities312,647290,106

Settlement processing obligations2,033,900451,317

Income taxes payable14,22812,390

Total current liabilities3,015,9041,211,618

Long-term debt1,680,0001,376,002

Deferred income taxes214,669209,099

Other noncurrent liabilities19,42289,132

Total liabilities4,929,9952,885,851

Commitments and contingencies

Equity:

Preferred stock, no par value; 5,000,000 shares authorized and none issued——

Common stock, no par value; 200,000,000 shares authorized; 65,278,838 issued and outstanding at May 31, 2015 and 68,845,643 issued and outstanding at May 31, 2014——

Paid-in capital148,742183,023

Retained earnings795,226815,980

Accumulated other comprehensive loss(185,992)(1,776)

Total Global Payments shareholders’ equity757,976997,227

Noncontrolling interests105,577135,572

Total equity863,5531,132,799

Total liabilities and equity$5,793,548$4,018,650

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.











GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands)





Year Ended May 31,


Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income$309,115$269,952$238,713

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment64,91860,12455,023

Amortization of acquired intangibles72,58761,94556,765

Share-based compensation expense21,05629,79318,427

Provision for operating losses and bad debts14,50620,57421,659

Deferred income taxes81,079(1,799)33,112

Other, net3,073(1,484)(4,878)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of the effects of acquisitions:

Accounts receivable1,248(18,539)(5,458)

Claims receivable(9,317)(11,569)(11,858)

Settlement processing assets and obligations, net(78,794)(241,431)(104,007)

Inventory1274,793(1,187)

Prepaid expenses and other assets14,61618,995(22,978)

Accounts payable and other liabilities(72,802)9,224(39,374)

Income taxes payable3,289(6,480)6,587

Net cash provided by operating activities424,701194,098240,546

Cash flows from investing activities:

Business, intangible and other asset acquisitions, net of cash acquired(359,187)(426,524)(434,016)

Capital expenditures(92,550)(81,411)(98,590)

Principal collections on financing receivables2192,6582,812

Net proceeds from sales of investments and business10,5973,6071,227

Net cash used in investing activities(440,921)(501,670)(528,567)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Net borrowings (payments) on short-term lines of credit198,884252,667(27,930)

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt2,496,8422,690,0001,135,327

Principal repayments of long-term debt(2,148,907)(2,260,597)(482,349)

Acquisition of redeemable noncontrolling interest——(242,000)

Payment of debt issuance costs—(5,961)(3,987)

Repurchase of common stock(372,387)(447,307)(175,297)

Proceeds from stock issued under share-based compensation plans22,55031,72710,543

Common stock repurchased - share-based compensation plans(15,690)(5,681)(10,244)

Tax benefit from share-based compensation plans5,1766,4751,863

Distributions to noncontrolling interests(39,753)(36,670)(16,206)

Dividends paid(5,340)(5,757)(6,198)

Net cash provided by financing activities141,375218,896183,522

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash(56,288)(9,922)3,694

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents68,867(98,598)(100,805)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period581,872680,470781,275

Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period$650,739$581,872$680,470

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.











GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY



(in thousands, except per share data)





Number  of SharesPaid-in CapitalRetained EarningsAccumulated Other Comprehensive LossTotal Global Payments Shareholders’ EquityNoncontrolling InterestsTotal EquityBalance at May 31, 201468,846$183,023$815,980$(1,776)$997,227$135,572$1,132,799Net income278,040278,04031,075309,115Other comprehensive loss, net of tax(184,216)(184,216)(28,597)(212,813)Stock issued under share-based compensation plans1,25822,55022,55022,550Common stock repurchased -  share-based compensation plans(324)(7,435)(7,435)(7,435)Tax benefit from share-based compensation, net5,1765,1765,176Share-based compensation expense21,05621,05621,056Distributions to noncontrolling interests—(39,753)(39,753)Noncontrolling interest from business combination—7,2807,280Repurchase of common stock(4,501)(75,628)(293,454)(369,082)(369,082)Dividends paid ($0.08 per share)(5,340)(5,340)(5,340)Balance at May 31, 201565,279$148,742$795,226$(185,992)$757,976$105,577$863,553

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.













GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY



(in thousands, except per share data)



Number  of SharesPaid-in CapitalRetained EarningsAccumulated Other Comprehensive LossTotal Global PaymentsShareholders’ EquityNoncontrolling InterestsTotal EquityBalance at May 31, 201375,426$202,396$958,751$(15,062)$1,146,085$140,522$1,286,607Net income245,286245,28624,666269,952Other comprehensive income, net of tax13,28613,2867,05420,340Stock issued under employee stock plans, net1,90131,72731,72731,727Common stock repurchased -  share-based compensation plans(644)(14,498)(14,498)(14,498)Tax benefit from share-based compensation, net6,3516,3516,351Share-based compensation expense29,79329,79329,793Distributions to noncontrolling interest(36,670)(36,670)Repurchase of common stock(7,837)(72,746)(382,300)(455,046)(455,046)Dividends paid ($0.08 per share)(5,757)(5,757)(5,757)Balance at May 31, 201468,846$183,023$815,980$(1,776)$997,227$135,572$1,132,799

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.











GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY



(in thousands, except per share data)

Number  of SharesPaid-in CapitalRetained EarningsAccumulated Other Comprehensive LossTotal Global Payments Shareholders' EquityNoncontrolling InterestsTotal EquityBalance at May 31, 201278,551$358,728$843,456$(30,000)$1,172,184$128,737$1,300,921Net income216,125216,12520,774236,899Other comprehensive income, net of tax14,93814,9387,21722,155Stock issued under employee stock plans, net88510,54310,54310,543Common stock repurchased -  share-based compensation plans(335)(10,244)(10,244)(10,244)Tax benefit from share-based compensation, net850850850Share-based compensation expense18,42718,42718,427Distributions to noncontrolling interest—(16,206)(16,206)Redeemable noncontrolling interests valuation adjustment817817817Repurchase of common stock(3,675)(79,900)(95,449)(175,349)(175,349)Purchase of redeemable noncontrolling interest(96,008)(96,008)(96,008)Dividends paid ($0.08 per share)(6,198)(6,198)(6,198)Balance at May 31, 201375,426$202,396$958,751$(15,062)$1,146,085$140,522$1,286,607

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.











NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





NOTE1—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES



Business, consolidation and presentation— We are a leading worldwide provider of payment technology services delivering innovative solutions to our customers. Our partnerships, technologies and employee expertise enable us to provide a broad range of services that allow our customers to accept various payment types. We distribute our services across a variety of channels to merchants and partners in29countries throughout North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil.  We provide payment and digital commerce solutions and operate intworeportable segments: North America merchant services and International merchant services. Global Payments Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries are referred to collectively as "Global Payments," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us," unless the context requires otherwise.



We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in2000and spun-off from our former parent company in2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payments business since1967.



These consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our majority-owned subsidiaries and all intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and present our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.



Use of estimates—The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period.  Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.



Revenue recognition—Ourtwosegments primarily provide payment solutions for credit cards, debit cards, electronic payments and check-related services.  Revenue is recognized when such services are performed.  Revenue for services provided directly to merchants is recorded net of interchange fees charged by card issuing banks.  Our primary business model provides payment services directly to merchants as our customers. We also provide similar services indirectly through financial institutions and a limited number of independent sales organizations ("ISOs"). The majority of merchant services revenue is generated on services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type. We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value. Revenue from credit cards and signature debit cards is generally based on a percentage of transaction value along with other related fees, while revenue from PIN-based debit cards is typically based on a fee per transaction.



Cash and cash equivalents—Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and all liquid investments with an initial maturity of three months or less when purchased.  Cash and cash equivalents include certain funds collected from our merchants that serve as collateral to minimize contingent liabilities associated with any losses that may occur under the merchant agreement ("Merchant Reserves"). We record a corresponding liability in settlement processing assets and settlement processing obligations in our consolidated balance sheet.  While this cash is not restricted in its use, we believe that designating this cash as Merchant Reserves strengthens our fiduciary standing with banks that sponsor us and is in accordance with guidelines set by the card networks.  As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, our cash and cash equivalents included$180.2 millionand$124.7 million, respectively, related to Merchant Reserves.



Certain banks that serve as our Sponsor under the sponsorship model hold Merchant Reserves on our behalf. In these instances, neither the Merchant Reserve cash nor the corresponding liability appears on our consolidated balance sheet; however, we have access to the collateral in the event that we incur a merchant loss. During the year endedMay 31, 2014, we transferred a significant amount of merchant reserve cash to one of our member sponsors to whom we transferred a substantial portion of our processing volume.



Our cash and cash equivalents include settlement-related cash balances. Settlement-related cash balances represent surplus funds that we hold when the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the funding obligation to the merchant.  Settlement-related cash balances are not restricted; however, these funds are generally paid out in satisfaction of settlement processing









obligations the following day. See "Note2- Settlement Processing Assets and Obligations" and discussion below for further information.



Inventory—Inventory, which includes electronic point of sale terminals, automated teller machines ("ATMs"), and related peripheral equipment, is stated at the lower of cost or fair value.  Cost is determined using the average-cost method.



Settlement processing assets and obligations—Settlement processing assets and obligations represent intermediary balances arising in our settlement process for direct merchants. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Subtopic 210-20,Offsetting, we apply offsetting to our settlement processing assets and obligations where legal right of offset exists. See "Note2- Settlement Processing Assets and Obligations" for further information.



Reserve for operating losses—Our merchant customers are liable for any charges or losses that occur under the merchant agreement. We experience losses in our card processing services when we are unable to collect amounts from merchant customers for any charges properly reversed by the card issuing banks. When we are not able to collect these amounts from the merchants due to merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for the reversed charges. We have historically experienced losses due to merchant defaults. We require cash deposits or Merchant Reserves, guarantees, letters of credit and other types of collateral from certain merchants to minimize any such contingent liability, and we also utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage merchant risk. We experience check guarantee losses when we are unable to collect the full amount of a guaranteed check from the checkwriter. We refer to both merchant credit losses and check guarantee losses collectively as "operating losses."



We record reserves for our estimated liability for operating losses. This estimate of losses is comprised of estimated known losses and estimated incurred but not reported losses. Estimated known losses arise from specific instances of, for example, merchant bankruptcies, closures or fraud of which we are aware at the balance sheet date, but for which the ultimate amount of associated loss will not be determined until after the balance sheet date.  Estimated known loss accruals are recorded when it is probable that we have incurred a loss and the loss is reasonably estimable. Estimated known losses are calculated at the merchant level based on chargebacks received to date, processed volume, and historical chargeback ratios. The estimate is reduced for any collateral that we hold. Accruals for estimated known losses are evaluated periodically and adjusted as appropriate based on actual loss experience. Incurred but not reported losses result from transactions that we process before the balance sheet date for which we have not yet received chargeback notification.  We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to our direct merchant credit card and signature debit card sales volumes processed, or processed volume.



As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, the reserve for operating losses from merchant card processing services was$1.3 millionand$1.7 million, respectively, and was included in settlement processing obligations in the consolidated balance sheets. For the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, the provision for merchant losses was$4.9 million,$8.7 millionand$9.5 million, respectively, and was included in cost of service in the consolidated statements of income.



In our check guarantee service offering, we charge our merchants a percentage of the gross amount of the check and guarantee payment of the check to the merchant in the event the check is not honored by the checkwriter's bank. We have the right to collect the full amount of the check from the checkwriter, but have not historically always recovered100% of the guaranteed checks.  Our check guarantee loss reserve is comprised of estimated losses on returned checks and estimated incurred but not reported losses.  We estimate the loss on returned checks by applying historical collection rates to our claims receivable balance. We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to the face value of our guaranteed checks.  As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, we had a check guarantee loss reserve of$2.7 millionand$3.0 million, respectively, which is included as a valuation allowance against claims receivable in the consolidated balance sheets. For the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, we recorded related expenses of$9.6 million,$11.9 millionand$11.7 million, respectively, which were included in cost of service in the consolidated statements of income. The estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned and recovered in the future may differ significantly from estimates used in calculating the receivable valuation allowance.



As the potential for merchants’ failure to settle individual reversed charges from consumers in our merchant card processing offering and the timing of individual checks clearing the payors’ banks in our check guarantee offering are not predictable, it is not practicable to calculate the maximum amounts for which we could be liable under the guarantees issued under the merchant card processing and check guarantee service offerings.  It is also not practicable to estimate the extent to which merchant collateral or subsequent collections of dishonored checks, respectively, would offset these exposures due to these same uncertainties.











Property and equipment— Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.  Depreciation and amortization are calculated using the straight-line method, except for certain technology assets discussed below.  Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the remaining term of the lease and the useful life of the asset.



We develop software that is used in providing processing services to customers. Capitalization of internally developed software, primarily associated with operating platforms, occurs when we have completed the preliminary project stage, management authorizes the project, management commits to funding the project, and it is probable the project will be completed and used to perform the function intended. The preliminary project stage consists of the conceptual formulation of alternatives, the evaluation of alternatives, the determination of existence of needed technology and the final selection of alternatives. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred.



As ofMay 31, 2015, we had placed into service$101.0 millionof hardware and software associated with our most recently developed authorization platform. This platform serves as a front-end operating environment for merchant processing and is intended to replace a number of legacy platforms.  Depreciation and amortization associated with these costs is calculated based on transactions processed during the period as a percentage of the transactions expected to be processed over the life of the platform. We believe that this method is more representative of the pattern of the benefit to be derived from the platform's use than the straight-line method.  We are currently processing transactions on this authorization platform inninemarkets in our Asia-Pacific region and for a limited number of U.S. merchants.  As these markets represent a small percentage of our overall transactions, depreciation and amortization related to this platform for fiscal2015,2014and2013was not significant.  Depreciation and amortization expense will increase as we complete migrations of additional merchants to this authorization platform.



Goodwill—We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1 and more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Macroeconomic factors such as general economic conditions, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other developments in equity and credit markets are monitored for indications that goodwill assigned to one of our reporting units may be impaired. We have the option of performing a qualitative assessment of impairment to determine whether any further quantitative testing for impairment is necessary. The decision of whether to perform a qualitative assessment is made annually by reporting unit.





We havesixreporting units: North America merchant services, U.K. merchant services, Asia-Pacific merchant services, Central and Eastern Europe merchant services, Russia merchant services and Spain merchant services. As ofJanuary 1, 2015, we elected to perform a qualitative assessment of impairment for each of our reporting units, except Russia merchant services. We determined on the basis of qualitative factors, as described above, that the fair values of the reporting units for which we performed a qualitative assessment were not more likely than not less than their respective carrying amounts. Due to the deterioration of economic conditions in the Russian Federation, we elected to perform a quantitative assessment of impairment for the Russia merchant services reporting unit as ofJanuary 1, 2015. Based on this quantitative assessment, we determined that goodwill of our Russia merchant services reporting unit was not impaired.











Our assessment of qualitative factors involves significant judgments about expected future business performance and general market conditions.  Significant changes in our assessment of such qualitative factors could affect our assessment of the fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in goodwill impairment charges in future periods.



Other intangible assets—Other intangible assets primarily represent customer-related intangible assets (such as customer lists and merchant contracts), contract-based intangible assets (such as non-compete agreements, referral agreements and processing rights), acquired technologies, trademarks and trade names associated with acquisitions. Customer-related intangible assets, contract-based intangible assets, acquired technologies, trademarks and trade names are amortized over their estimated useful lives of from2to26years. The useful lives for customer-related intangible assets are determined based primarily on forecasted cash flows, which include estimates for the cash inflows, cash outflows and customer attrition associated with the assets. The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreements. The useful lives of acquired technologies are based on our expectations for the remaining useful life of developed technology before it becomes substantially obsolete. The useful lives of amortizable trademarks and trade names are based on our plans to phase out the trademarks and trade names in the applicable markets.



Amortization for most of our customer-related intangible assets is calculated using an accelerated method. In determining amortization expense under our accelerated method for any given period, we calculate the expected cash flows for that period that were used in determining the acquisition-date fair value of the asset and divide that amount by the expected total cash flows over the estimated life of the asset. We multiply that percentage by the initial carrying amount of the asset to arrive at the amortization expense for that period. If the cash flow patterns that we experience differ significantly from our initial estimates, we adjust the amortization schedule prospectively. These cash flow patterns are derived using certain assumptions and cost allocations due to a significant number of asset interdependencies that exist in our business. We believe that our accelerated method reflects the pattern of the benefit to be derived from the acquired customer relationships.



We use the straight-line method of amortization for our contract-based intangibles, amortizable trademarks and trade names and acquired technologies.



Impairment of long-lived assets—We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying amount of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may not be recoverable.  When factors indicate that these long-lived assets should be evaluated for possible impairment, we assess the potential impairment by determining whether the carrying amount of such long-lived assets will be recovered through the future undiscounted cash flows expected from use of the asset and its eventual disposition.  If the carrying amount of the asset is determined not to be recoverable, a write-down to fair value is recorded.  Fair values are determined based on quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analysis as applicable.  We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the useful lives of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may warrant revision.  The carrying amounts of our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets, were not impaired atMay 31, 2015or May 31,2014.



Income taxes—Deferred income taxes are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax laws and rates.  A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.



Derivative instruments—We may use interest rate swaps or other derivative instruments to manage a portion of our exposure to the variability in interest rates. Our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuation in interest rates is to better control this element of cost and to mitigate the earnings and cash flow volatility associated with changes in applicable rates. We have established policies and procedures that encompass risk-management philosophy and objectives, guidelines for derivative instrument usage, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity. We do not enter into derivative instruments for the purpose of speculation.



We formally designate and document instruments at inception that qualify for hedge accounting of underlying exposures. When qualified for hedge accounting, these financial instruments are recognized at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets, and changes in fair value are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income and included in equity. Cash flows resulting from settlements are presented as a component of operating cash flows.



We formally assess, both at inception and at least quarterly, whether the financial instruments used in hedging transactions are effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of the related underlying exposure. Fluctuations in the value of these instruments









generally are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying exposures being hedged. This offset is driven by the high degree of effectiveness between the exposure being hedged and the hedging instrument. We designated our interest rate swap agreements as a cash flow hedge of interest payments on variable rate borrowings. Any ineffective portion of a change in the fair value of a qualifying instrument is immediately recognized in earnings. See "Note6- Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities" for more information about our interest rate swaps.



Fair value measurements—Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the reporting date.  GAAP establishes a fair value hierarchy that categorizes the inputs to valuation techniques into three broad levels. Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2 inputs are based on other observable market data, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable such as interest rates and yield curves. Level 3 inputs are developed from unobservable data reflecting our assumptions and include situations where there is little or no market activity for the asset or liability.



Fair value of financial instruments—The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, lines of credit, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, approximate their fair value given the short-term nature of these items.  Our long-term debt includes variable interest rates based on theLondon Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined in the debt agreements) or the prime rate, plus a margin based on our leverage position. AtMay 31, 2015, the carrying amount of our long-term debt approximates fair value, which is calculated using Level 2 inputs. The fair value of our swap agreement was determined based on the present value of the estimated future net cash flows using implied rates in the applicable yield curve as of the valuation date, and classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. See "Note6– Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities" for further information.



Foreign currencies—We have significant operations in a number of foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is the local currency. The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is a foreign currency are translated at the period-end rate of exchange. Income statement items are translated at the weighted-average rates prevailing during the period. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income and is included in equity.



Gains and losses on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies are generally included in determining net income for the period.  For the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, our transaction gains and losses were insignificant. Transaction gains and losses on intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income and included in equity.



Earnings per share—Basic earnings  per share is computed by dividing reported net income attributable to Global Payments by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Earnings available to common shareholders is the same as reported net income attributable to Global Payments for all periods presented.



Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Global Payments by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period, including the effect of share-based awards that would have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. All stock options with an exercise price lower than the average market share price of our common stock for the period are assumed to have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. The diluted share base for the year ended May 31,2013excludes0.3 millionshares related to stock options that would have an antidilutive effect on the computation of diluted earnings per share. No additional securities were outstanding that could potentially dilute basic earnings per share.



The following table sets forth the computation of the diluted weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013:

201520142013(in thousands)Basic weighted-average shares outstanding67,03672,11977,767Plus: Dilutive effect of stock options and other share-based awards425569460Diluted weighted-average shares outstanding67,46172,68878,227











Repurchased shares—We account for the retirement of repurchased shares using the par value method under which we allocate the cost of repurchased and retired shares between paid-in capital and retained earnings. The repurchase price is charged to paid-in capital up to the amount of the original issue proceeds of those shares. When the repurchase price is greater than the original issue proceeds, the excess is charged to retained earnings. We use a last-in, first-out cost flow assumption to identify the original issue proceeds to the cost of the shares repurchased.



New accounting pronouncements— From time-to-time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") or other standards setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date.



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



In January 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-01, "Income Statement Extraordinary and Unusual Items (Subtopic 225-20): Simplifying Income Statement Presentation by Eliminating the Concept of Extraordinary Items."The amendments in this update eliminate from GAAP the concept of extraordinary items. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. A reporting entity may apply the amendments prospectively. A reporting entity also may apply the amendments retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. We adopted ASU 2015-01 as of May 31, 2015. Adoption of ASU 2015-01 had no effect on our consolidated financial statements.



In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-08, "Presentation of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360) Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity."The amendments in ASU 2014-11 change the requirements for reporting discontinued operations in ASC Subtopic 205-20. The amendments change the definition of discontinued operations by limiting discontinued operations reporting to disposals of components of an entity that represent strategic shifts that have (or will have) a major effect on an entity’s operations and financial results. The amendments require expanded disclosures for discontinued operations and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2014. As permitted by the standards, we elected to early adopt the provision of ASU 2014-08 as of June 1, 2014 and have applied the provisions prospectively. Adoption of ASU 2014-08 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.



Recently Issued Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted



In April 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2015-05, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other-Internal -Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." The amendments in this update provide guidance to customers about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. The guidance will not change GAAP for a customer’s accounting for service contracts. The amendments will be effective for annual periods, including interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2015. Early adoption is permitted for all entities. We are evaluating the impact of ASU 2015-05 on our consolidated financial statements and have not yet adopted the new standard.



In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, "Interest-Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs."The update requires debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability instead of being presented as an asset. Debt disclosures will include the face amount of the debt liability and the effective interest rate. The update requires retrospective application and represents a change in accounting principle. The update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015. Early adoption permitted for financial statements that have not been previously issued. We are evaluating the impact of ASU 2015-03 on our consolidated financial statements and have not yet adopted the new standard.



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)."The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The standard requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period.









On July 9, 2015, the FASB voted to defer the effective date of the new revenue recognition standard by one year and permit early adoption but not before the original effective date of December 15, 2016. We are evaluating the impact of ASU 2014-09 on our consolidated financial statements.





NOTE2—SETTLEMENT PROCESSING ASSETS AND OBLIGATIONS



Funds settlement refers to the process of transferring funds for sales and credits between card issuers and merchants. For transactions processed on our systems, we use our internal network to provide funding instructions to financial institutions that in turn fund the merchants.  We process funds settlement under two models, a sponsorship model and a direct membership model.



Under the sponsorship model, we are designated as a Merchant Service Provider by MasterCard and an Independent Sales Organization by Visa, which means that member clearing banks ("Member") sponsor us and require our adherence to the standards of the payment networks.  In certain markets, we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements with financial institution sponsors.  These agreements allow us to route transactions under the Members' control and identification numbers to clear credit card transactions through MasterCard and Visa.  In this model, the standards of the payment networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant is funded.



Under the direct membership model, we are members in various payment networks, allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party sponsorship. In this model, we route and clear transactions directly through the card brand’s network and are not restricted from performing funds settlement.  Otherwise, we process these transactions similarly to how we process transactions in the sponsorship model.  We are required to adhere to the standards of the payment networks in which we are direct members.  We maintain relationships with financial institutions, which may also serve as our Member sponsors for other card brands or in other markets, to assist with funds settlement.



Timing differences, interchange fees, Merchant Reserves and exception items cause differences between the amount received from the payment networks and the amount funded to the merchants.  These intermediary balances arising in our settlement process for direct merchants are reflected as settlement processing assets and obligations on our consolidated balance sheets.  Settlement processing assets and obligations include the components outlined below:



•Interchange reimbursement - our receivable from merchants for the portion of the discount fee related to reimbursement of the interchange fee.

•Receivable from Members - our receivable from the Members for transactions in which we have advanced funding to the Members to fund merchants in advance of receipt of funding from networks.

•Receivable from networks - our receivable from a payment network for transactions processed on behalf of merchants where we are a direct member of that particular network.

•Exception items - items such as customer chargeback amounts received from merchants.

•Merchant Reserves - reserves held to minimize contingent liabilities associated with losses that may occur under the merchant agreement.

•Liability to Members - our liability to the Members for transactions for which funding from the payment network has been received by the Members but merchants have not yet been funded.

•Liability to merchants - our liability to merchants for transactions that have been processed but not yet funded where we are a direct member of a particular payment network.

•Reserve for operating losses - our allowance for charges or losses that we are not able to collect from the merchants due to merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other merchant-related reason.

•Reserves for sales allowances.



We apply offsetting to our settlement processing assets and obligations where legal right of offset exists. In the sponsorship model, we apply offsetting by Member because the Member is ultimately responsible for funds settlement. With these Member transactions, we do not have access to the gross proceeds of the receivable from the payment networks and, thus, do not have a direct obligation or any ability to satisfy the payable to fund the merchant. In these situations, we apply offsetting to determine a net position with each Member sponsor. If that net position is an asset, we reflect the net amount in settlement processing assets on our consolidated balance sheet, and we present the individual components in the settlement processing assets table below. If that net position is a liability, we reflect the net amount in settlement processing obligations on our consolidated balance sheet,









and we present the individual components in the settlement processing obligations table below. In the direct membership model, offsetting is not applied, and the individual components are presented as an asset or obligation based on the nature of that component.



During the year endedMay 31, 2015, we changed from the sponsorship model to a direct membership model in certain of our markets. As a result, for these markets, we have recorded the gross positions of settlement processing assets and obligations atMay 31, 2015in our consolidated balance sheet; whereas these positions were reflected on a net basis in the prior year.



As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, settlement processing assets and obligations consisted of the following:

20152014(in thousands)Settlement processing assets:Interchange reimbursement$186,660$217,806Receivable from Members294,837206,322Receivable from networks1,919,148430,763Exception items4,9205,573Merchant Reserves(10,743)(79,547)$2,394,822$780,917Settlement processing obligations:Interchange reimbursement$68,444$54,459Liability to Members(628)(5,490)Liability to merchants(1,931,390)(407,651)Exception items5,3316,313Merchant Reserves(169,442)(96,622)Reserve for operating losses(1,286)(1,725)Reserve for sales allowances(4,929)(601)$(2,033,900)$(451,317)





NOTE3—BUSINESS AND INTANGIBLE ASSET ACQUISITIONS AND JOINT VENTURES



In the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014, and2013, we acquired the following businesses and intangible assets:

Date AcquiredPercentage OwnershipFiscal 2015Realex (Republic of Ireland)March 25, 201595%Ezidebit (Australia)October 10, 2014100%Fiscal 2014PayPros (United States)March 4, 2014100%Fiscal 2013Banca Civica (Spain)December 12, 2012100%Accelerated Payment Technologies (United States)October 1, 2012100%



Fiscal 2015



Realex Payments



OnMarch 25, 2015, we acquired approximately95%of the outstanding shares of Pay and Shop Limited for €110.2 millionin cash ($118.9 millionequivalent as of the acquisition date) funded by borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Pay and Shop Limited, which does business as Realex Payments ("Realex"), is a leading European online payment gateway technology provider based in Dublin, Ireland. This transaction furthers our strategy to provide omni-channel solutions that combine gateway services,









payment service provisioning and merchant acquiring across Europe. This transaction was recorded as a business combination. We recorded the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interest at fair value as of the acquisition date. Due to the timing of this transaction, we have not finalized the valuation of intangible assets acquired and related deferred income taxes. In connection with the acquisition of Realex, we paid a transaction-related tax of$1.2 million. Other acquisition costs were not material. The revenue and earnings of Realex for the year endedMay 31, 2015were not material nor were the historical revenue and earnings of Realex material for the purpose of presenting pro forma information for the current or prior-year periods.



The following table summarizes the preliminary fair value of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and the noncontrolling interest as of the acquisition date (in thousands):

Cash$4,082Customer-related intangible assets16,079Acquired technology39,820Trade name3,453Other intangible assets399Other assets6,183Liabilities(3,860)Deferred income tax liabilities(7,216)58,940Goodwill67,220Noncontrolling interest(7,280)Total purchase consideration$118,880



Goodwill of $67.2 millionarising from the acquisition was included in the International merchant services segment and was attributable to expected growth opportunities in Europe and an assembled workforce to support the newly acquired technology. Goodwill associated with this acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes. The customer-related intangible assets have an estimated amortization period of16years. The acquired technology has an estimated amortization period of10years. The trade name has an estimated amortization period of7years.



Ezidebit



OnOctober 10, 2014, we completed the acquisition of100%of the outstanding stock of Ezi Holdings Pty Ltd ("Ezidebit") for AUD302.6 millionin cash ($266.0 millionequivalent as of the acquisition date). This acquisition was funded by a combination of cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Ezidebit is a leading integrated payments company focused on recurring payments verticals in Australia and New Zealand. Ezidebit markets its services through a network of integrated software vendors and direct channels to numerous vertical markets. We acquired Ezidebit to establish a direct distribution channel in Australia and New Zealand and to further enhance our existing integrated solutions offerings. This transaction was recorded as a business combination. We recorded the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date. Due to the timing of this transaction, we have not finalized the valuation of deferred income taxes. Acquisition costs associated with this purchase were not material. The revenue and earnings of Ezidebit for the year endedMay 31, 2015were not material nor were the historical revenue and earnings of Ezidebit material for the purpose of presenting pro forma information for the current or prior-year periods.











The following table summarizes the preliminary fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date (in thousands):

Cash$45,826Customer-related intangible assets42,721Acquired technology27,954Trade name2,901Other assets4,152Liabilities(49,797)73,757Goodwill192,225Total purchase consideration$265,982



Goodwill of$192.2 millionarising from the acquisition was included in the International merchant services segment and was attributable to expected growth opportunities in Australia and New Zealand, as well as growth opportunities and operating synergies in integrated payments in our existing Asia-Pacific and North America markets. Goodwill associated with this acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes. The customer-related intangible assets have an estimated amortization period of15years. The acquired technology has an estimated amortization period of15years. The trade name has an estimated amortization period of5years.



Central and Eastern European Venture



OnJuly 27, 2015we announced an agreement with CaixaBank, S.A. ("CaixaBank") and Erste Group Bank AG (“Erste Group”) to form a venture to provide merchant acquiring and payment services inthreecore Central and Eastern Europe locations: the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic and Romania.  As part of the agreement, Global Payments and CaixaBank will form an entity, of which Global Payments will have a51percent majority interest.  This newly formed entity will pay €30 million($33 millionequivalent as of the agreement date) in cash to acquire a51percent majority ownership in the venture with Erste Group, which will contribute its existing merchant acquiring businesses in each of thethreecountries to the venture and hold a49percent interest. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of fiscal2016, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of customary closing conditions.



FIS Gaming Business



OnSeptember 30, 2014, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Certegy Check Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS"), to acquire substantially all of the assets of its gaming business related to licensed gaming operators (the "FIS Gaming Business"). OnJune 1, 2015, after the end of fiscal 2015, we completed the acquisition, which includes approximately260gaming client locations, for$237.5 millionin cash, funded from borrowings on our revolving credit facility and cash on hand. We acquired the FIS Gaming Business to expand our direct distribution and service offerings in the gaming industry. This transaction will be recorded as a business combination, and we will record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date. Due to the timing of this transaction, the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete because the appraisal of the acquired assets has not yet been received. Acquisition costs associated with this purchase were not material.



OnSeptember 30, 2014, we entered into a gaming bureau license agreement and an outsourcing agreement with FIS. Under the license agreement, we acquired a perpetual software license for a gaming bureau application that we believe enhances our casino clients’ credit decision process.  The software license is reflected in property and equipment in our consolidated balance sheet atMay 31, 2015. Under the outsourcing agreement, which has a term of10years, we have engaged FIS to provide a variety of services for our gaming clients, including: check and ACH verification services, collection services, claims management services, billing services and other gaming bureau services. The outsourcing agreement became effective on June 1, 2015, when the asset purchase agreement closed.











Bank of the Philippine Islands



OnDecember 17, 2014, we announced an agreement with Bank of the Philippine Islands ("BPI") to provide merchant acquiring and payment services in the Philippines. We believe this arrangement will enable us to expand our direct distribution in the Philippines, further leverage our technological strengths and provide superior product and service offerings to customers in the Philippines. Under this arrangement, BPI will contribute its existing merchant acquiring business to our subsidiary in the Philippines, Global Payments Asia-Pacific Philippines Incorporated ("GP Philippines"), in return for a49%ownership interest in GP Philippines and a cash payment of$3.6 million. We will retain a controlling51%interest in GP Philippines, which is included in our International merchant services segment. The transaction is expected to close late in the first quarter of fiscal2016, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of customary closing conditions.



Fiscal 2014



PayPros



OnMarch 4, 2014, we completed the acquisition of100.0%of the outstanding stock of Payment Processing, Inc. ("PayPros") for$426.5 millionin cash. We funded the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and borrowings on our Term Loan (as defined in "Note6- Long Term Debt and Credit Facilities"). PayPros is a provider of fully-integrated payment solutions for small-to-medium sized merchants in the United States.  PayPros delivers its services through a network of technology-based enterprise software partners to vertical markets that are complementary to the markets served by Accelerated Payment Technologies ("APT"), which we acquired in October 2012. We acquired PayPros to expand our direct distribution capabilities in the United States and to further enhance our existing integrated solutions offerings. This transaction was recorded as a business combination. We recorded the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date. Acquisition costs associated with this business combination were not material.



The following table summarizes the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date (in thousands):

Property and equipment$1,680Customer-related intangible assets147,500Contract-based intangible assets30,200Acquired technology10,800Other assets3,872Deferred income tax liabilities(38,478)155,574Goodwill270,878Total purchase consideration$426,452



Goodwill of$270.9 millionarising from the acquisition was included in the North America merchant services segment and was attributable primarily to operating synergies with the services offered and markets served by PayPros. The goodwill associated with the acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes. The customer-related intangible assets and the contract-based intangible assets have estimated amortization periods of13years. The acquired technology has an estimated amortization period of7years.



The amount of revenue and earnings of PayPros since the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of income for fiscal 2014 was not material. The following pro forma information shows the results of our operations for year ended May 31, 2014 and May 31, 2013 as if the PayPros acquisition had occurred June 1, 2012. The pro forma information is presented for information purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what would have occurred if the acquisition had been made as of that date. The pro forma information is also not intended to be a projection of future results due to the integration of the acquired business.









Year Ended May 31,Unaudited2014201420132013(Actual)(Pro forma)(Actual)(Pro forma)(in thousands, except per share data)Total revenues$2,554,236$2,628,547$2,375,923$2,465,319Net income attributable to Global Payments$245,286$241,272$216,125$207,032Net income per share attributable to Global Payments, basic$3.40$3.35$2.78$2.66Net income per share attributable to Global Payments, diluted$3.37$3.32$2.76$2.65



Comercia Global Payments Brazil



EffectiveSeptember 30, 2013, CaixaBank, S.A. ("CaixaBank"), which owns49%of Comercia Global Payments ("Comercia"), our subsidiary in Spain, purchased50%of Global Payments Brazil for$2.1 millionin cash and a commitment to fund the capital needs of the business until such time as its cumulative funding was equal to funding that we provided from inception through the effective date of the transaction.  The transaction created a new joint venture which does business as Comercia Global Payments Brazil.  As a result of the transaction, we deconsolidated Global Payments Brazil. Thereafter, we have applied the equity method of accounting to our retained interest in Global Payments Brazil.  We recorded a gain on the transaction of$2.1 millionwhich was included in other income in the consolidated statement of income. The results of Global Payments Brazil from inception until the restructuring into a joint venture onSeptember 30, 2013were not material to our consolidated results of operations, and the assets and liabilities that we derecognized were not material to our consolidated balance sheet.



CaixaBank completed its initial funding commitment in late fiscal 2014. During fiscal2015, we and CaixaBank each made additional capital investments in Global Payments Brazil of$11.4 million.



Fiscal 2013



Banca Civica



OnDecember 12, 2012, Comercia completed the acquisition of the merchant acquiring business of Banca Civica, S.A. ("Civica") from CaixaBank for €17.5 millionin cash ($22.9 millionequivalent as of the acquisition date). This transaction was recorded as a business combination. We recorded the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date. The results of operations of this business were not significant to our consolidated results of operations and, accordingly, we have not provided pro forma information relating to this acquisition. Acquisition costs associated with this business combination were not material.



The following table summarizes the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired as of the acquisition date (in thousands):

Customer-related intangible assets$4,576Contract-based intangible assets13,85818,434Goodwill4,445Total purchase consideration$22,879



The goodwill associated with the acquisition was included in the International merchant services segment and is not deductible for tax purposes.  The customer-related and contract-based intangible assets have estimated amortization periods of10and18years, respectively.











Accelerated Payment Technologies



OnOctober 1, 2012, we completed the acquisition of100%of the common stock of APT for$410.2 millionin cash. We funded the acquisition using proceeds from a term loan. We acquired APT, a provider of fully-integrated payment technology solutions for small and medium sized merchants, to expand our direct distribution capabilities in the United States. This transaction was recorded as a business combination. We recorded the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date. Acquisition costs associated with this business combination were not material.



The following table summarizes the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date (in thousands):

Property and equipment$1,309Acquired technology15,000Customer-related intangible assets97,200Contract-based intangible assets30,600Other assets3,708Deferred income tax liabilities(46,167)101,650Goodwill308,518Total purchase consideration$410,168



Goodwill of$308.5 millionarising from the acquisition was included in the North America merchant services segment and is not deductible for tax purposes.  The customer-related intangible assets have estimated amortization periods of12years. The contract-based intangible assets have estimated amortization periods of1.5to10years. The acquired technology has an estimated amortization period of8years.



Prior to the acquisition, we processed transactions for the majority of APT's merchants through an ISO arrangement. As a result, our revenue did not materially change with this acquisition and the amount of incremental revenue and earnings of APT since the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of income for fiscal 2013 was not material. Following the acquisition, we no longer pay a monthly residual to APT. The following pro forma information shows the results of our operations for year ended May 31, 2013 as if the APT acquisition had occurred June 1, 2011. The pro forma information is presented for information purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what would have occurred if the acquisition had been made as of that date. The pro forma information is also not intended to be a projection of future results due to the integration of the acquired business.

Year Ended May 31,Unaudited20132013(Actual)(Pro forma)(in thousands, except per share data)Total revenues$2,375,923$2,380,098Net income attributable to Global Payments$216,125$217,122Net income per share attributable to Global Payments, basic$2.78$2.79Net income per share attributable to Global Payments, diluted$2.76$2.78











Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest Acquisition



OnJuly 26, 2012, we entered into an agreement to purchase HSBC Asia's44%interest in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Limited ("GPAP") for$242.0 millionin cash, which we completed onDecember 1, 2012. We used a combination of excess cash and existing borrowings to fund the transaction.



The purchase was treated as an equity transaction and reflected as a financing cash outflow in our statement of cash flows. Accordingly, no additional value was ascribed to the assets of GPAP. The difference between the maximum redemption amount of the redeemable noncontrolling interest atJuly 26, 2012and our purchase price was recorded as a reduction of paid-in capital of$96.0 million. In accordance with ASC Topic 480,Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity("ASC 480"), from the agreement date through the close of the transaction, we accounted for our commitment to purchase the remaining44%of GPAP as a freestanding forward contract. Accordingly as ofJuly 26, 2012, we stopped attributing income to redeemable noncontrolling interest and any subsequent distributions to holders of the redeemable noncontrolling interest were characterized as interest expense.  HSBC Asia was entitled to dividends through the closing of the transaction pursuant to the GPAP shareholders' agreement and the purchase agreement. During fiscal 2013, we declared a dividend for fiscal year 2012 of which$8.4 millionwas paid to HSBC Asia. During fiscal 2014, we declared an additional dividend related to GPAP operations for fiscal year 2013 through the closing date of which$3.3 millionwas paid to HSBC Asia. Such dividends are reflected as interest expense in our consolidated statements of income in the accordance with the provisions of ASC 480.





NOTE4—PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT



As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, property and equipment consisted of the following:

Range of Useful Lives (Years)20152014(in thousands)LandN/A$1,571$1,942Buildings25-3026,23633,996Equipment2-10197,186204,102Software2-10248,137224,766Leasehold improvements3-1520,45819,399Furniture and fixtures3-73,7053,809Work in progressN/A56,78253,704554,075541,718Less accumulated depreciation and amortization179,932171,965$374,143$369,753



Total depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment was $64.9 million, $60.1 million, and $55.0 millionfor the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, respectively.













NOTE 5—GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS



As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, goodwill and intangible assets consisted of the following:

20152014(in thousands)Goodwill$1,491,833$1,337,285Other intangible assets:Customer-related intangible assets$718,011$714,704Trademarks and trade names10,7776,140Acquired technology93,19425,700Contract-based intangible assets130,874145,967952,856892,511Less accumulated amortization:Customer-related intangible assets342,488317,629Trademarks and trade names4,4374,147Acquired technology8,5093,531Contract-based intangible assets37,28632,031392,720357,338$560,136$535,173



The following table sets forth the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years endedMay 31, 2015 and 2014:

North America Merchant ServicesInternational Merchant ServicesTotal(in thousands)Balance at May 31, 2013$519,175$525,047$1,044,222Accumulated impairment losses———Balance at May 31, 2013519,175525,0471,044,222Goodwill acquired271,577—271,577Effect of foreign currency translation(4,097)25,58321,486Balance at May 31, 2014786,655550,6301,337,285Accumulated impairment losses———Balance at May 31, 2014786,655550,6301,337,285Goodwill acquired4,794259,445264,239Effect of foreign currency translation(11,715)(97,976)(109,691)Balance at May 31, 2015779,734712,0991,491,833Accumulated impairment losses———Balance at May 31, 2015$779,734$712,099$1,491,833



Customer-related intangible assets, acquired technology and trade names acquired during the year endedMay 31, 2015had weighted-average amortization periods of15.1years,9.1years and6.1years, respectively. Customer-related intangible assets, contract-based intangible assets and acquired technology acquired during the year endedMay 31, 2014had weighted-average amortization periods of13.2years,13.2years and6.5years, respectively. Amortization expense of acquired intangibles was $72.6 million, $61.9 million, and $56.8 millionfor fiscal2015,2014and2013, respectively.













The estimated amortization expense of acquired intangibles as ofMay 31, 2015for the next five fiscal years, calculated using the exchange rate at the date of acquisition, if applicable, is as follows (in thousands):

2016$76,295201771,471201865,004201961,234202055,889





NOTE6—LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES



As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, long-term debt consisted of the following:

20152014(in thousands)Term loan$1,234,375$1,250,000Corporate credit facility508,125140,000Notes payable—3,679Total long-term debt1,742,5001,393,679Less current portion of long-term debt62,50017,677Long-term debt, excluding current portion$1,680,000$1,376,002



Maturity requirements on long-term debt by fiscal year are as follows (in thousands):

2016$62,500201778,1252018125,00020191,476,875Total$1,742,500



OnFebruary 28, 2014, we entered into an amended and restated term loan agreement ("Term Loan") and an amended and restated credit agreement ("Corporate Credit Facility") with a syndicate of financial institutions.



The Term Loan is afive-year senior unsecured$1.25 billionterm loan. We used proceeds from the Term Loan to partially fund our acquisition of PayPros onMarch 4, 2014and to repay the outstanding balances on our previously existing term loan and revolving credit facility.



The Term Loan expiresFebruary 28, 2019and bears interest, at our election, at eitherLIBORor a base rate, in each case plus a leverage-based margin. As ofMay 31, 2015, the interest rate on the Term Loan was1.94%. From May 2015 to November 2018, the Term Loan has scheduled quarterly principal payments of1.25%, increasing up to2.50%, of the original principal balance. At maturity,27.5%of the Term Loan will have been repaid through scheduled principal payments and the remaining principal balance will be due. With notice, the Term Loan may be voluntarily prepaid at any time, in whole or in part, without penalty.



The Corporate Credit Facility is afive-year senior unsecured$1 billionrevolving credit facility that expiresFebruary 28, 2019and bears interest, at our election, at eitherLIBORor a base rate, in each case plus a leverage-based margin. As ofMay 31, 2015, the interest rate on the Corporate Credit Facility was1.90%. The Corporate Credit Facility is available for general corporate purposes, and borrowing under the Corporate Credit Facility is available in various currencies.



The Corporate Credit Facility allows us to issue standby letters of credit of up to$100 millionin the aggregate. Outstanding letters of credit under the Corporate Credit Facility reduce the amount of borrowings available to us. Borrowings available to us under the Corporate Credit Facility are further limited by the covenants described below under "Compliance with Covenants."  At









May 31, 2015and2014, we had standby letters of credit of$7.6 millionand$8.1 million, respectively. The total available incremental borrowings under our Corporate Credit Facility atMay 31, 2015and2014was$484.3 millionand$851.9 million, respectively. We are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Corporate Credit Facility.



Upon closing of the Term Loan and the Corporate Credit Facility, which occurred onFebruary 28, 2014, we repaid the outstanding balance of$612.5 millionon our previously existing term loan and the outstanding balance of$290 millionon our previously existing revolving credit facility together with accrued interest and fees on each. In connection with the debt refinancing, we recorded a loss of$2.1 million, representing the write off the remaining unamortized debt issuance costs associated with the previously existing term loan. We reported this loss in Interest and other expense in our consolidated statement of income for the year ended May 31, 2014. We incurred fees and expenses associated with these new arrangements of approximately$6.0 million, which was capitalized as debt issuance costs. Debt issuance costs are included in other non-current assets in our consolidated balance sheet atMay 31, 2015and are being amortized over the terms of the Term Loan and Corporate Credit facility.



The agreements contain customary affirmative and restrictive covenants, including, among others, financial covenants based on our leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. See "Compliance with Covenants" below. Each of the agreements includes customary events of default, the occurrence of which, following any applicable cure period, would permit lenders to, among other things, declare the principal, accrued interest and other obligations to be immediately due and payable.



Short-term Lines of Credit



We have short-term lines of credit with banks in the United States and Canada as well as several countries in Europe and Asia in which we do business. The short-term lines of credit, which are restricted for use in funding settlement, generally have variable short-term interest rates and are subject to annual review. The credit facilities are generally denominated in local currency but may, in some cases, facilitate borrowings in multiple currencies.  For certain of our lines of credit, the line of credit balance is reduced by the amount of cash we have on deposit in specific accounts with the lender when determining the available credit.  Accordingly, the amount of the outstanding line of credit may exceed the stated credit limit when the net position is less than the credit limit. As ofMay 31, 2015a total of$193.2 millionof cash on deposit was used to determine the available credit.



As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, respectively, we had$592.6 millionand$440.1 millionoutstanding under these short-term lines of credit with additional capacity as ofMay 31, 2015, of$567.5 millionto fund settlement. The weighted-average interest rate on these borrowings was1.5%and1.7%, atMay 31, 2015and2014, respectively. We are required to pay a commitment fee on unused portions of short-term lines of credit.



During the year endedMay 31, 2015, the maximum and average outstanding balances under these lines of credit were$1,258.7 millionand$647.3 million, respectively. The maximum outstanding amount was greater than our period-end balance due to the timing of settlement funding.



Compliance with Covenants



There are certain financial and non-financial covenants contained in our various credit facilities and Term Loan.  Our Term Loan and Corporate Credit Facility agreements include financial covenants requiring (i) a leverage ratio no greater than3.50to1.00(3.75to1.00in the case of a business acquisition, subject to certain conditions) and (ii) a fixed charge coverage ratio no less than2.50to1.00. We complied with all applicable covenants as of and for the year endedMay 31, 2015.



Interest Rate Swap Agreement



OnOctober 9, 2014, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a major financial institution to hedge changes in cash flows attributable to interest rate risk on a portion of our variable-rate debt instruments. The interest rate swap agreement, which became effective onOctober 31, 2014, will mature onFebruary 28, 2019. AtMay 31, 2015, our interest rate swap agreement effectively converted$500 millionof our variable-rate debt to a fixed rate of1.52%plus a leverage-based margin. The fair value of our interest rate swap as ofMay 31, 2015was a liability of $6.2 million, which is reflected in accounts payable and accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. Net amounts to be received or paid under the swap agreement are reflected as adjustments to interest expense. Since we have designated the interest rate swap agreement as a cash flow hedge, unrealized gains or losses resulting from adjusting the swap to fair value are recorded as components of other comprehensive income except for any ineffective









portion of the change in fair value, which would be immediately recorded in interest expense. During the year endedMay 31, 2015, there was no ineffectiveness. The fair value of the swap agreement was determined based on the present value of the estimated future net cash flows using implied rates in the applicable yield curve as of the valuation date. This derivative instrument was classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.



During the year endedMay 31, 2015, we recognized $4.0 millionin interest expense related to settlements on the interest rate swap. AtMay 31, 2015, the amount in accumulated other comprehensive income related to our interest rate swap that is expected to be reclassified into interest expense during the next 12 months was not material.



Interest Expense



Interest expense was$39.9 million,$37.5 millionand$31.7 millionfor the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, respectively. Interest expense is comprised primarily of interest on our long-term debt and short-term lines of credit. Interest expense also includes settlements on our interest rate swap, amortization of deferred debt issuance costs, commitment fees on the unused portions of our Corporate Credit Facility and short-term lines of credit and interest related to unrecognized income tax benefits. Interest expense of$3.6 millionthat had been accrued related to an unrecognized tax benefit was eliminated as ofMay 31, 2015and reflected as a reduction to Interest and other expense in the year endedMay 31, 2015in our consolidated statement of income. See "Note 8 - Income Tax" for further discussion.



Interest expense during the year ended May 31,2014includes a loss on extinguishment of debt of$2.1 millionin connection with the refinancing of our term loan and revolving credit facilities. Interest expense for the years ended May 31,2014and2013includes dividend payments to HSBC Asia in the amounts of$3.3 millionand$8.4 million, respectively, related to a redeemable noncontrolling interest that HSBC Asia held in Global Payments Asia-Pacific. See "Note3- Business and Intangible Asset Acquisitions and Joint Ventures-Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest Acquisition" for further discussion.





NOTE7—ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES



As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, accounts payable and accrued liabilities consisted of the following:

20152014(in thousands)Trade accounts payable$22,836$13,076Compensation and benefits57,23861,193Third party processing expenses4,39911,062Commissions to third parties63,73766,551Accrued fees and assessment expenses39,41751,649Other125,02086,575$312,647$290,106













NOTE8—INCOME TAX



The provision for income taxes for the years endedMay 31,2015,2014and2013consisted of the following:

201520142013(in thousands)Current income tax expense:Federal$25,022$49,178$16,326State3,9053,856987Foreign(10,346)48,07536,02018,581101,10953,333Deferred income tax expense:Federal14,8221,56826,302State3,6061,2063,568Foreign70,9863,51512,36889,4146,28942,238$107,995$107,398$95,571



The income tax expense allocated to noncontrolling interests was$8.6 million,$5.2 millionand$4.2 millionfor the years endedMay 31,2015,2014and2013, respectively.



The following presents income before income taxes for the years endedMay 31,2015,2014and2013:

201520142013(in thousands)United States$135,901$153,453$137,501Foreign281,209223,897196,783$417,110$377,350$334,284



Our effective tax rates for the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, respectively, differ from the federal statutory rate as follows:

201520142013Federal U.S. statutory rate35.0%35.0%35.0%State income taxes, net of federal income tax benefit1.10.90.9Foreign income taxes(8.5)(7.2)(7.0)Foreign interest income not subject to tax(1.8)(2.1)(2.8)Tax credits and other1.03.13.7Effective tax rate attributable to Global Payments26.829.729.8Effective tax rate allocated to noncontrolling interests(0.9)(1.2)(1.2)Effective tax rate25.9%28.5%28.6%













Deferred income taxes are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred income taxes as ofMay 31, 2015and2014reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial accounting and income tax purposes.  As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, principal components of deferred tax items were as follows:

20152014(in thousands)Deferred income tax assets:Basis difference - U.K. business$24,520$96,720Foreign income tax credit carryforward14,17211,819Foreign net operating loss carryforward2,3306,881U.S. net operating loss carryforward6,92722,074Share-based compensation expense7,7275,916Other8,6366,26664,312149,676Less valuation allowance(3,823)(7,199)60,489142,477Deferred income tax liabilities:Acquired intangible assets147,239149,440Property and equipment63,95753,238Taxes on unremitted earnings and other4,9925,470Foreign currency translation14,65926,813Other2,0691,800232,916236,761Net deferred income tax liability$(172,427)$(94,284)



The net deferred income tax liability is reflected on our consolidated balance sheets as ofMay 31, 2015and2014as follows:

20152014(in thousands)Current deferred income tax asset$11,664$12,887Noncurrent deferred income tax asset30,578101,928Noncurrent deferred income tax liability(214,669)(209,099)$(172,427)$(94,284)



Undistributed earnings of$696.9 millionfrom certain foreign subsidiaries are considered to be permanently reinvested abroad and will not be repatriated to the United States in the foreseeable future. Because those earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested, no domestic federal or state deferred income taxes have been provided thereon. If we were to make a distribution of any portion of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to both U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign jurisdictions. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards, it is not practicable to determine the domestic federal income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were no longer considered to be reinvested indefinitely.













A valuation allowance is provided against deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  Changes to our valuation allowance during the years endedMay 31, 2015and2014are summarized below (in thousands):

Balance at May 31, 2013$(28,464)Utilization of foreign net operating loss carryforwards2,822Allowance for foreign tax credit carryforward18,061Other382Balance at May 31, 2014(7,199)Utilization of foreign net operating loss carryforwards3,387Other(11)Balance at May 31, 2015$(3,823)



Net operating loss carryforwards of foreign subsidiaries totaling$12.4 millionand U.S. net operating loss carryforwards previously acquired totaling$19.8 millionatMay 31, 2015will expire betweenMay 31, 2017andMay 31, 2033if not utilized.  Capital loss carryforwards of U.S. subsidiaries totaling$4.7 millionwill expire if not utilized byMay 31, 2017. Tax credit carryforwards totaling$8.4 millionatMay 31, 2015will expire betweenMay 31, 2017andMay 31, 2023if not utilized.



We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions.  In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities around the world.



As a result of events that occurred in the fourth quarter of the year endedMay 31, 2015, management concluded that it was more likely than not that the tax positions in a foreign jurisdiction, for which we had recorded estimated liabilities of$65.6 millionin other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet, would be sustained on their technical merits based on information available as ofMay 31, 2015. Therefore, the liability and corresponding deferred tax assets were eliminated as ofMay 31, 2015. The uncertain tax positions have been subject to an ongoing examination in that foreign jurisdiction by the tax authority.  Discussions and correspondence between the tax authority and us during the fourth quarter indicated that the likelihood of the positions being sustained had increased. Subsequent toMay 31, 2015, we received a final closure notice regarding the examination resulting in no adjustments to taxable income related to this matter for the tax returns filed for the periods endedMay 31, 2010throughMay 31, 2013. The unrecognized tax benefits were effectively settled with this final closure notice.



We are no longer subjected to state income tax examinations for years ended on or beforeMay 31, 2008, U.S. federal income tax examinations for fiscal years prior to 2012 and United Kingdom federal income tax examinations for years ended on or before May 31, 2013.



A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized income tax benefits, excluding penalties and interest, for the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014, and2013is as follows:

201520142013(in thousands)Balance at the beginning of the year$67,576$53,763$45,595Additions based on income tax positions related to the current year6,3118,5518,778Additions for income tax positions of prior years512296142Foreign currency impact for income tax positions(5,713)5,303(601)Reductions for income tax positions of prior years(32)(60)(151)Settlements with income tax authorities(504)(277)—Changes in judgment regarding tax position(65,591)——Balance at the end of the year$2,559$67,576$53,763



As ofMay 31, 2015, the total amount of gross unrecognized income tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the provision for income taxes is$2.6 million.













We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized income tax benefits in interest expense and selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively, in our consolidated statement of income. Interest expense of$3.6 millionthat had been accrued related to the unrecognized tax benefit was eliminated as ofMay 31, 2015and was reflected as a reduction to Interest and other expense in the year endedMay 31, 2015in our consolidated statement of income.





NOTE 9—SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY



During fiscal2015, our Board of Directors authorized the additional repurchase of up to$302.3 millionof our common stock. As ofMay 31, 2015, we had$102.9 millionof remaining authorization to repurchase our common stock.



OnApril 10, 2015, pursuant to the authorization described above, we entered into an Accelerated Share Repurchase program (''ASR'') with a financial institution to repurchase an aggregate of$100 millionof our common stock. In exchange for an up-front payment of$100 million, the financial institution committed to deliver a number of shares during the ASR's purchase period, which ended onJune 16, 2015. OnApril 14, 2015,815,494shares were initially delivered to us. AtMay 31, 2015, we accounted for the variable component of remaining shares to be delivered under the ASR as a forward contract indexed to our common stock which met all of the applicable criteria for equity classification. At maturity, an additional162,371shares was delivered to us. The total number of shares delivered under this ASR was977,865shares at an average price of$102.26per share.



During fiscal2015, in addition to shares repurchased under the ASR, we repurchased and retired3.5 millionshares of our common stock at a cost of$269.0 million, or an average of$76.37per share, including commissions.



OnOctober 7, 2013, we entered into an ASR with a financial institution to repurchase an aggregate of$100 millionof our common stock. In exchange for an upfront payment of$100 million, the financial institution committed to deliver a number of shares during the ASR's purchase period, which ended onJanuary 9, 2014. The total number of shares delivered under this ASR was1.6 millionshares at an average price of$60.96per share.



During fiscal2014, in addition to shares repurchased under the ASR, we repurchased and retired6.2 millionshares of our common stock at a cost of$355.0 million, or an average of$57.29per share, including commissions.



During fiscal2013, we entered into an ASR with a financial institution to repurchase an aggregate of$125 millionof our common stock. In exchange for an up-front payment of$125 million, the financial institution committed to deliver a number of shares during the ASR's purchase period, which ended onMarch 30, 2013. The total number of shares delivered under this ASR was2.5 millionat an average price of$49.13per share.



During fiscal2013, in addition to shares repurchased under the ASR, we repurchased and retired1.1 millionshares of our common stock at a cost of$50.3 million, or an average of$44.55per share, including commissions.





NOTE 10—SHARE-BASED AWARDS AND OPTIONS



Non-qualified stock options and restricted stock have been granted to officers, key employees and directors under the Global Payments Inc. 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the "2000 Plan"), the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan"), the Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the "Director Stock Option Plan"), and the Global Payments Inc. 2011 Incentive Plan (the "2011 Plan") (collectively, the "Plans"). There were no further grants made under the 2000 Plan after the 2005 Plan was effective, and the Director Stock Option Plan expired by its terms on February 1, 2011. There will be no future grants under the 2000 Plan, the 2005 Plan or the Director Stock Option Plan.



The 2011 Plan permits grants of equity to employees, officers, directors and consultants. A total of7.0 millionshares of our common stock was reserved and made available for issuance pursuant to awards granted under the 2011 Plan.











The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense and the related income tax benefit recognized for stock options, restricted stock, performance units, TSR units, and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan (each as described below).

201520142013(in millions)Share-based compensation expense$21.1$29.8$18.4Income tax benefit$(6.9)$(7.1)$(5.6)



We grant various share-based awards pursuant to the Plans under what we refer to as our "long-term incentive plan." The awards are held in escrow and released upon the grantee's satisfaction of conditions of the award certificate.



Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units



We grant restricted stock and restricted stock units. Restricted stock awards vest over a period of time, provided, however, that if the grantee is not employed by us on the vesting date, the shares are forfeited. Restricted shares cannot be sold or transferred until they have vested. Restricted stock granted before fiscal 2015 vests in equal installments on each of the firstfouranniversaries of the grant date. Restricted stock granted during fiscal 2015 will either vest in equal installments on each of the firstthreeanniversaries of the grant date or cliff vest at the end of athree-year service period. The grant date fair value of restricted stock, which is based on the quoted market value of our common stock at the closing of the award date, is recognized as share-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.



Performance Units



Certain of our executives have been granted up tothreetypes of performance units under our long-term incentive plan. Performance units are performance-based restricted stock units that, after a performance period, convert into common shares, which may be restricted. The number of shares is dependent upon the achievement of certain performance measures during the performance period. The target number of performance units and any market-based performance measures ("at threshold," "target," and "maximum") are set by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Performance units are converted only after the Compensation Committee certifies performance based on pre-established goals.



The performance units granted to certain executives in fiscal 2014 were based on aone-year performance period. After the Compensation Committee certified the performance results,25%of the performance units converted to unrestricted shares.  The remaining75%converted to restricted shares that vest in equal installments on each of the first three anniversaries of the conversion date. The performance units granted to certain executives during fiscal 2015 were based on a three-year performance period. After the Compensation Committee certifies the performance results for the three-year period, performance units earned will convert into unrestricted common stock.



The Compensation Committee may set a range of possible performance-based outcomes for performance units. Depending on the achievement of the performance measures, the grantee may earn up to200%of the target number of shares. For awards with only performance conditions, we recognize compensation expense over the performance period using the grant date fair value of the award, which is based on the number of shares expected to be earned according to the level of achievement of performance goals. If the number of shares expected to be earned were to change at any time during the performance period, we would make a cumulative adjustment to share-based compensation expense based on the revised number of shares expected to be earned.



During fiscal 2015, certain executives were granted performance units that we refer to as leveraged performance units, or LPUs. LPUs contain a market condition based on our relative stock price growth over athree-year performance period. The LPUs contain a minimum threshold performance which, if not met, would result in no payout. The LPUs also contain a maximum award opportunity set as a fixed dollar and fixed number of shares. After thethree-year performance period,one-thirdof any earned units converts to unrestricted common stock. The remainingtwo-thirdsconvert to restricted stock that will vest in equal installments on each of the firsttwoanniversaries of the conversion date. We recognize share-based compensation expense based on the grant date fair value of the LPUs, as determined by use of a Monte Carlo model, on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the LPU award.











Total Shareholder Return Units



Before fiscal 2015, certain of our executives were granted total shareholder return ("TSR") units, which are performance-based restricted stock units that are earned based on our total shareholder return over athree-year performance period compared to companies in the S&P 500. Once the performance results are certified, TSR units convert into unrestricted common stock. Depending on our performance, the grantee may earn up to200%of the target number of shares. The target number of TSR units for each executive is set by the Compensation Committee. We recognize share-based compensation expense based on the grant date fair value of the TSR units, as determined by use of a Monte Carlo model, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.



The following table summarizes the changes in unvested share-based awards for the years endedMay 31, 2015and2014(shares in thousands):

SharesWeighted-AverageGrant-DateFair ValueUnvested at May 31, 20131,096$44Granted54447Vested(643)45Forfeited(120)45Unvested at May 31, 201487745Granted47772Vested(324)46Forfeited(106)53Unvested at May 31, 2015924$58



Including the restricted stock, performance units and TSR units described above, the total fair value of share-based awards vested during the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013was$15.0 million,$28.7 millionand$13.6 million, respectively.



For these share-based awards, we recognized compensation expense of$19.8 million,$28.2 millionand$16.2 millionin the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, respectively. As ofMay 31, 2015, there was $41.3 millionof total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested share-based awards that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of2.1years.



Employee Stock Purchase Plan



We have an employee stock purchase plan under which the sale of2.4 millionshares of our common stock has been authorized.  Employees may designate up to the lesser of$25,000or20%of their annual compensation for the purchase of our common stock.  The price for shares purchased under the plan is85%of the market value on the last day of each calendar quarter. As ofMay 31, 2015,1.1 millionshares had been issued under this plan, with1.3 millionshares reserved for future issuance. We recognized compensation expense for the plan of$0.6 millionin each of the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013.



The weighted-average grant-date fair value of each designated share purchased under this plan during the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013was approximately$8,$7and$6, respectively, which represents the fair value of the15%discount.



Stock Options



Stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to100%of fair market value on the date of grant and have a term of10-years.  Stock options granted before fiscal 2015 vest in equal installments on each of the firstfouranniversaries of the grant date.  Stock options granted during fiscal 2015 vest in equal installments on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date. During the year endedMay 31, 2015, we granted153,183stock options. We didnot grant stock options during the years endedMay 31, 2014and2013. Our stock option plans provide for accelerated vesting under certain conditions.











The following is a summary of our stock option activity as of and for the years endedMay 31, 2015and2014:

OptionsWeighted-Average Exercise PriceWeighted-Average Remaining Contractual TermAggregate Intrinsic Value(in thousands)(years)(in millions)Outstanding at May 31, 20131,765$353.5$23.9Granted——Forfeited(65)39Exercised(934)30Outstanding at May 31, 2014766413.821.3Granted15372Forfeited(24)55Exercised(448)41Outstanding at May 31, 2015447$515.2$23.9Options vested and exercisable at May 31, 2015309$423.5$19.4Options vested and exercisable at May 31, 2014725$413.6$20.1



We recognized compensation expense for stock options of$0.7 million,$1.0 millionand$1.7 millionduring the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised during fiscal2015,2014and2013was$16.6 million,$24.9 millionand$6.3 million, respectively. As ofMay 31, 2015, we had$1.6 millionof unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of3.5years.



The weighted-average grant-date fair value of each stock option granted during the year endedMay 31, 2015was $17. Fair value was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model with the following weighted-average assumptions:

Risk-free interest rate1.57%Expected volatility23.65%Dividend yield0.13%Expected life (years)5



The risk-free interest rate is based on the yield of a zero coupon U.S. Treasury security with a maturity equal to the expected life of the option from the date of the grant. Our assumption on expected volatility is based on our historical volatility. The dividend yield assumption is calculated using our average stock price over the preceding year and the annualized amount of our most current quarterly dividend per share. We based our assumptions on the expected lives of the options on our analysis of the historical exercise patterns of the options and our assumption on the future exercise pattern of options.













NOTE 11—SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION



Supplemental cash flow disclosures for the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014, and2013are as follows:

201520142013(in thousands)Supplemental cash flow information:Income taxes paid, net of refunds$66,726$94,938$55,218Interest paid(1)$36,537$33,214$29,677

(1)Includes distributions to HSBC Asia of$3.3 millionand$8.4 millionin fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, respectively, which were characterized as interest expense pursuant to ASC 480. See "Note3- Business and Intangible Asset Acquisitions and Joint Ventures."





NOTE 12—NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS



For the years ended May 31,2015,2014and2013, net income included in the consolidated statements of changes in equity is reconciled to net income presented in the consolidated statements of income as follows:

201520142013(in thousands)Net income attributable to Global Payments$278,040$245,286$216,125Net income attributable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests31,07524,66620,774Subtotal per statement of changes in equity309,115269,952236,899Net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interest——1,814Net income$309,115$269,952$238,713



The following table is the reconciliation of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests to comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the years endedMay 31, 2015andMay 31, 2014:

201520142013(in thousands)Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax$31,075$24,666$22,588Foreign currency translation attributable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests(28,597)7,0547,217Foreign currency translation attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interest——573Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax$2,478$31,720$30,378



The following table details the components of redeemable noncontrolling interest for the year endedMay 31, 2013:

2013(in thousands)Beginning balance$144,422Net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interest1,814Foreign currency translation adjustment573Decrease in the maximum redemption amount of redeemable noncontrolling interest(817)Derecognition of redeemable noncontrolling interest(145,992)Ending balance$—













NOTE 13—ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS



The changes in the accumulated balances for each component of other comprehensive loss were as follows for the years endedMay 31,2015,2014and2013:

Foreign Currency TranslationUnrealized Losses on Hedging ActivitiesDefined Benefit Pension PlansAccumulated Other Comprehensive Loss(in thousands)Balance at May 31, 2012$(24,951)$—$(5,049)$(30,000)Other comprehensive income, net of income tax13,421—1,51714,938Balance at May 31, 2013(11,530)—(3,532)(15,062)Other comprehensive income, net of income tax13,113—17313,286Balance at May 31, 20141,583—(3,359)(1,776)Other comprehensive loss, net of income tax(179,892)(3,874)(450)(184,216)Balance at May 31, 2015$(178,309)$(3,874)$(3,809)$(185,992)



Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest, which relates only to foreign currency translation, was$(28.6) million$7.1 millionand$7.2 millionfor the years endedMay 31,2015,2014and2013, respectively.





NOTE14—SEGMENT INFORMATION



General Information



We provide payment and digital commerce solutions and operate intworeportable segments: North America merchant services and International merchant services. Early in fiscal 2016, we realigned our businesses intothreesegments: North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Recent and anticipated international growth have led to a realigned management structure replacing our International merchant services segment withtwonew operating segments: Europe and Asia-Pacific. We will begin reporting on the revised basis during fiscal 2016.



Information About Profit and Assets



We evaluate performance and allocate resources based on the operating income of each segment. The operating income of each segment includes the revenues of the segment less those expenses that are directly related to those revenues.  Operating overhead, shared costs and certain compensation costs are included in Corporate in the following table. Interest and other income, interest and other expense and provision for income taxes are not allocated to the individual segments. We do not evaluate performance or allocate resources using segment asset data.  The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in "Note1- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."











Information on segments, including revenue by geographic distribution within segments, and reconciliations to consolidated revenues and consolidated operating income are as follows for the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014, and2013:

201520142013(in thousands)Revenues:United States$1,655,872$1,488,659$1,394,675Canada313,018320,333311,000North America merchant services1,968,8901,808,9921,705,675Europe615,966587,463522,593Asia-Pacific188,862157,781147,655International merchant services804,828745,244670,248Consolidated revenues$2,773,718$2,554,236$2,375,923Operating income (loss) for segments:North America merchant services$293,139$272,251$258,910International merchant services(1)279,711240,179211,242Corporate(2)(116,253)(106,931)(112,939)Consolidated operating income$456,597$405,499$357,213Depreciation and amortization:North America merchant services$81,051$60,970$48,882International merchant services49,88354,72857,520Corporate6,5716,3715,386Consolidated depreciation and amortization$137,505$122,069$111,788



(1)During the year endedMay 31, 2015, operating income for the International merchant services segment includes a$2.9 milliongain on the sale of a component of our Russia business that leased automated teller machines to our sponsor bank in Russia. The gain is presented in selling, general and administrate expenses in the consolidated statements of income.

(2)Includes a processing system intrusion credit of$7.0 millionin fiscal 2014 and a charge of$36.8 millionin fiscal 2013.



Enterprise-Wide Information



As a percentage of our total consolidated revenues, revenues from external customers in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada was60%,13%and11%, respectively, for the year ended May 31, 2015;58%,13%and13%, respectively, for the year ended May 31, 2014; and59%,12%and13%, respectively, for the year ended May 31, 2013. Revenues from external customers are attributed to individual countries based on the location of the customer arrangements. Our results of operations and our financial condition are not significantly reliant upon any single customer.



Long-lived assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, by location as ofMay 31, 2015and2014were as follows:

20152014(in thousands)United States$284,257$259,457Foreign countries89,886110,296$374,143$369,753













NOTE 15—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Leases



We conduct a major part of our operations using leased facilities and equipment. Many of these operating leases have renewal and purchase options and provide that we pay the cost of property taxes, insurance and maintenance. Rent expense on all operating leases for the years endedMay 31, 2015,2014and2013was$17.5 million,$16.0 million, and$16.5 million, respectively.



Future minimum lease payments for noncancelable operating leases atMay 31, 2015were as follows:

Fiscal years ending May 31:2016$13,878201711,08920189,22620197,76020206,873Thereafter9,172Total future minimum lease payments$57,998



Legal



We are party to a number of claims and lawsuits incidental to our business. In our opinion, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from the outcome of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows.



Operating Taxes



We define operating taxes as taxes that are not derived based on earnings, such as sales, gross receipts, property, value-added and other business taxes.  During the course of operations, we must interpret the meaning of various operating tax matters in the United States and in the foreign jurisdictions in which we do business.  Taxing authorities in those various jurisdictions may arrive at different interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as they relate to such operating tax matters, which could result in the payment of additional taxes in those jurisdictions.  As ofMay 31, 2015and2014, we did not have liabilities for contingencies related to operating tax items based on management's best estimate given our history with similar matters and interpretations of current laws and regulations.



BIN/ICA Agreements



We have entered into sponsorship or depository and processing agreements with certain banks. These agreements allow us to use the banks' identification numbers, referred to as a Bank Identification Number ("BIN") for Visa transactions and an Interbank Card Association ("ICA") number for MasterCard transactions, to clear credit card transactions through Visa and MasterCard. Certain of these agreements contain financial covenants, and we were in compliance with all such covenants as ofMay 31, 2015.















NOTE16—PROCESSING SYSTEM INTRUSION



In March 2012, we identified and self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system and potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from U.S. merchants who applied for processing services. Through fiscal 2014, we incurred approximately$114.2 millionof cumulative expenses, net of insurance recoveries of$27.0 million, relating to the incident. During fiscal 2014, we recorded a credit of$7.0 millionfor insurance recoveries, and during fiscal 2013, we recorded a processing system intrusion charge of$36.8 million. As a result of this event, certain card networks temporarily removed us from their lists of Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards ("PCI DSS") compliant service providers. After remediating our processes and systems, we returned to the lists of PCI DSS compliant service providers in the third quarter of fiscal 2013.





NOTE 17—QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)



Summarized quarterly results for the years endedMay 31, 2015and2014are as follows (in thousands, except per share data):

Quarter EndedAugust 31November 30February 28May 31Fiscal 2015Revenues$704,895$697,291$664,983$706,549Operating income124,398123,984104,615103,600Net income84,43485,25669,31570,110Net income attributable to Global Payments75,36674,78162,56865,325Basic earnings per share attributable to Global Payments1.111.110.940.99Diluted earnings per share attributable to Global Payments1.101.100.930.99Quarter EndedAugust 31November 30February 28May 31Fiscal 2014Revenues$629,685$634,122$616,452$673,977Operating income107,384111,90797,29188,917Net income71,70879,85760,12158,266Net income attributable to Global Payments64,64373,89755,12151,625Basic earnings per share attributable to Global Payments0.881.020.770.73Diluted earnings per share attributable to Global Payments0.871.020.760.72



Operating income, net income, net income attributable to Global Payments and basic and diluted earnings per share for the quarter endedMay 31, 2015include the effects of employee termination costs of$6.3 million(pre-tax) and a$1.2 million(pre-tax) charge for a transaction tax associated with the acquisition of Realex. Net income, net income attributable to Global Payments and basic and diluted earnings per share for the quarter endedMay 31, 2015also include the effect of the reversal of interest expense of$3.6 million(pre-tax) that had been previously accrued related to a previously unrecognized tax benefit. An out-of period immaterial correction related to the measurement of certain deferred tax assets was recorded in the quarter endedMay 31, 2015as a charge to income tax expense of$14.3 million($6.8 millionof which related to the quarter ended August 31, 2014).  This charge was offset by a corresponding income tax benefit recorded in the quarter endedMay 31, 2015related to a change in judgment regarding the tax rate at which those same deferred tax assets were expected to be realized in conjunction with the recognition of the previously unrecognized tax benefit related to an uncertain tax position in a foreign jurisdiction. See "Note 8 – Income Tax" for further information. Both amounts are included in the foreign income taxes line of the reconciliation between the federal statutory rate and the effective tax rate for the year endedMay 31, 2015in "Note8- Income Tax."















GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

SCHEDULE II



Valuation & Qualifying Accounts



(a) Description(b) Balance atBeginning of Year(c) Additions: Charged toCosts andExpenses(d) Deductions: UncollectibleAccountsWrite-Off(e) Balance atEndof Year(in thousands)Allowance for doubtful accountsMay 31, 2013$532$444$467$509May 31, 2014509174282401May 31, 2015401324257468Reserve for operating losses-merchant card processing(1)May 31, 2013$2,325$9,484$9,491$2,318May 31, 20142,3188,6589,2521,724May 31, 20151,7244,9285,3661,286Reserve for sales allowances-merchant card processing(1)May 31, 2013$873$2,074$1,986$961May 31, 20149611,3301,690601May 31, 20156017,9743,6464,929Reserve for operating losses-check guarantee processingMay 31, 2013$3,435$11,731$12,022$3,144May 31, 20143,14411,91612,0622,998May 31, 20152,9989,5789,8922,684Deferred income tax asset valuation allowanceMay 31, 2013$26,090$2,374$—$28,464May 31, 201428,464(21,265)—7,199May 31, 20157,199(3,376)—3,823



(1)Included in settlement processing obligations.















ITEM 9 - CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE



None.





ITEM 9A - CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



As of May 31, 2015, management carried out, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of May 31, 2015, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in applicable rules and forms and are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in those reports is accumulated and communicated to management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.



Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting



Our management team is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2015. In making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO") in theInternal Control - Integrated Framework (2013). As of May 31, 2015, management believes that the Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.  Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our internal control over financial reporting, which is included in this Annual Report.



Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements.  Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations.  Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures.  Internal control over financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Due to such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting.  However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process.  Therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, such risk.



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting or in other factors that occurred during the quarter ended May 31, 2015 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.





ITEM 9B - OTHER INFORMATION



None.















PART III





ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE



We incorporate by reference in this Item 10 information about our directors, executive officers and our corporate governance contained under the headings "Election of Directors" and "Information Concerning Our Executive Officers" and information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 by our directors and executive officers under the heading "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our2015Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held onNovember 18, 2015.



We have adopted codes of ethics that apply to our senior financial officers.  The senior financial officers include our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, Controller or persons performing similar functions.  The code of ethics is available in the investor relations section of our website atwww.globalpaymentsinc.com, and as indicated in the section entitled "Where To Find Additional Information" in Part I to this Annual Report. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or a waiver from, a provision of our code of ethics by posting such information on our website at the address and location set forth above.





ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION



We incorporate by reference in this Item 11 the information relating to executive and director compensation contained under the headings "Compensation, Discussion, and Analysis," "Director Compensation" and "Report of the Compensation Committee" from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our2015Annual Meeting of Shareholders.





ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS



We incorporate by reference in this Item 12 the information relating to ownership of our common stock by certain persons contained under the headings "Common Stock Ownership of Management" and "Common Stock Ownership by Certain Other Persons" from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our2015Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



The following table provides certain information as ofMay 31, 2015concerning the shares of the Company’s common stock that may be issued under existing equity compensation plans.  For more information on these plans, see "Note 9 - Shareholders' Equity" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Plan categoryNumber of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights(a)Weighted-average exerciseprice of outstanding options, warrants and rights(b)Number of securitiesremaining available forfuture issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a))(c)Equity compensation plans approved by security holders447,068$50.958,408,284Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders———Total447,068$50.958,408,284



The information presented in the table above includes shares of common stock available for issuance other than upon the exercise of an option, warrant or right under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the 2011 Incentive Plan. In addition, it includes 977,296 shares authorized under the Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan and 584,004 shares authorized under the 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan. As previously disclosed, we do not intend to issue shares under either the Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan or the 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan.











ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE



We incorporate by reference in this Item 13 the information regarding certain relationships and related transactions between us and our affiliates and the independence of our directors contained under the headings "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and "Board Independence" from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our2015Annual Meeting of Shareholders.





ITEM 14 - PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES



We incorporate by reference in this Item 14 the information regarding principal accounting fees and services contained under the heading "Ratification of the Reappointment of Auditors" from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our2015Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



















PART IV



ITEM 15 - EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES:



(a)The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report:



(1)  Consolidated Financial Statements



Our consolidated financial statements listed below are set forth in “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report:

PageNumberReports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm45Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended May 31, 2015, 2014 and 201347Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended May 31, 2015, 2014 and 201348Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2015 and 201449Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended May 31, 2015, 2014 and 201350Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the years ended May 31, 2015, 2014, and 201351Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements54



(2)  Financial Statement SchedulesPage NumberSchedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts84



All other schedules to our consolidated financial statements have been omitted because they are not required under the related instruction or are inapplicable, or because we have included the required information in our consolidated financial statements or related notes.



(3)  Exhibits



The following exhibits either (i) are filed with this Annual Report or (ii) have previously been filed with the SEC and are incorporated in this Item 15 by reference to those prior filings.





Exhibit No.Description

2.1Stock Purchase Agreement for Global Payments Asia-Pacific Limited, dated as of July 26, 2012, by and between Global Payments Acquisition PS 2 C.V. and The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed October 2, 2012.

2.2Stock Purchase Agreement for Accelerated Payment Technologies, Inc., dated as of August 14, 2012, by and among the Company, Vegas Holding Corp., its stockholders and the stockholder representative named therein, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed October 2, 2012.

2.3Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 23, 2014, by and among the Company, Payment Processing, Inc. and, solely for the limited purposes set forth therein, certain additional parties thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed April 3, 2014.

2.4Asset Purchase Agreement, dated September 30, 2014, by and among Certegy Check Services, Inc., Global Payments Gaming Services, Inc. and Global Payments Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed April 8, 2015.

2.5Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 15, 2014, by and among Global Payments Australia 2 Pty Ltd, Global Payments Inc., as guarantor, shareholders of Ezi Holdings Pty Ltd and certain guarantors of the sellers, incorporated by reference to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed January 8, 2015.

3.1Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 25, 2013.

3.2Sixth Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 25, 2013.

10.1Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2014, by and among the Company and Global Payments Direct, Inc., as borrowers, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and certain other lenders party thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2014.















10.2Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2014, by and among the Company and certain wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, as borrowers, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and letter of credit issuer, and certain other lenders party thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2014.

10.3First Amended and Restated Marketing Alliance Agreement with HSBC Bank plc, dated June 12, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 28, 2009, File No. 001-16111.

10.4+Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed August 26, 2003, File No. 001-16111.

10.5+First Amendment to Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated March 28, 2007, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 30, 2007, File No. 001-16111.

10.6+Second Amendment to Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated December 15, 2008, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed April 6, 2009, File No. 001-16111.

10.7+2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed January 16, 2001, File No. 333-53774.

10.8+Third Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, dated June 1, 2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 30, 2007, File No. 001-16111.

10.9+Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, dated March 28, 2007, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 30, 2007, File No. 001-16111.

10.10+Third Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan, dated December 31, 2008, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed April 6, 2009, File No. 001-16111.

10.11+Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Award pursuant to the Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed January 8, 2007, File No. 001-16111.

10.12+Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed September 16, 2010.

10.13+2011 Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 29, 2011.

10.14+Form of Restricted Stock Award pursuant to the 2011 Incentive Plan (2013 and 2014 fiscal years), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2014.

10.15+Form of Performance Unit Award (Performance Units) (2013 fiscal year) pursuant to the 2011 Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2014.

10.16+Form of Performance Unit Award (Performance Units) (2014 fiscal year) pursuant to the 2011 Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2014.

10.17+Form of Performance Unit Award (TSRs) (2013 fiscal year) pursuant to the 2011 Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2014.

10.18+Form of Performance Unit Award (TSRs) (2014 fiscal year) pursuant to the 2011 Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2014.

10.19+Form of Restricted Stock Award pursuant to the 2011 Incentive Plan (2015 fiscal year), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed April 8, 2015.

10.20+Form of Stock Option Award pursuant to the 2011 Incentive Plan (2015 fiscal year), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed April 8, 2015.

10.21+Form of Performance Unit Award Certificate Award pursuant to the 2011 Incentive Plan (2015 fiscal year), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed April 8, 2015.

10.22+Form of Performance Unit Award Certificate (Leveraged Performance Units) pursuant to the 2011 Incentive Plan (2015 fiscal year), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed April 8, 2015.

10.23+Form of Stock Option Award (2015 fiscal year), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed October 2, 2014.

10.24+Amended and Restated 2014 Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan, dated April 1, 2014 (sub-plan to the Global Payments Inc. 2011 Incentive Plan, dated September 27, 2011), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 28, 2014.

10.25+Annual Performance Plan, adopted August 29, 2012 (sub-plan to the Global Payments Inc. 2011 Incentive Plan, dated September 27, 2011), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.52 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed July 25, 2013.

10.26+Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Jeffrey S. Sloan, dated as of March 30, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 1, 2010.















10.27+Amendment to Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Jeffrey S. Sloan, dated as of October 1, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 7, 2013.

10.28+Second Amendment to Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Jeffrey S. Sloan, dated as of August 29, 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed October 2, 2014.

10.29+Employment Agreement by and between the Company and David E. Mangum, dated as of March 1, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 3, 2010.

10.30+Amendment to Employment Agreement by and between the Company and David E. Mangum, dated as of August 29, 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed October 2, 2014.

10.31+Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Cameron M. Bready, dated as of May 21, 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 23, 2014.

10.32+Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Guido F. Sacchi, dated as of December 1, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed January 8, 2014.

10.33+Employment Agreement by and between the Company and David L. Green, dated as of December 1, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed January 8, 2014.

10.34+Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Jane M. Elliott, dated as of December 1, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed January 8, 2014.

10.35+Employment Agreement by and between the Company and G. Thomas Balas, Jr., dated as of December 1, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed January 8, 2014.

10.36+Change in Control, Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement between David M. Sheffield and the Company, dated as of April 6, 2015, incorporated by reference to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed April 8, 2015.

10.37+Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement by and between the Company and Daniel C. O’Keefe, dated as of October 1, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed October 1, 2013.

10.38+Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Paul R. Garcia, dated as of July 12, 2000, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Pre-Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed October 27, 2000.

10.39+Amendment to Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Paul R. Garcia, dated as of December 23, 2008, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed April 6, 2009, File No. 001-16111.

10.40+Second Amendment to Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Paul R. Garcia, dated as of October 1, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 7, 2013.

10.41+Key Position Agreement by and between the Company and Paul R. Garcia, dated as of January 6, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 6, 2010.

10.42+Amendment to Key Position Agreement by and between the Company and Paul R. Garcia, dated as of October 1, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 7, 2013.

10.43+Second Amendment to Key Position Agreement by and between the Company and Paul R. Garcia, dated as of June 6, 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed October 2, 2014.

10.44+Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Morgan M. Schuessler, dated as of August 23, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed October 1, 2013.

10.45+Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Suellyn P. Tornay, dated as of June 1, 2001, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed August 10, 2004, File No. 001-16111.

10.46+Amendment to Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Suellyn P. Tornay, dated as of June 1, 2001, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed April 6, 2009, File No. 001-16111.

10.47+Transition and Separation Agreement by and between the Company and Suellyn P. Tornay, dated as of December 12, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 16, 2013.

10.48+Amendment to Transition and Separation Agreement by and between the Company and Suellyn P. Tornay, dated as of July 31, 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed October 2, 2014.

21.1*List of Subsidiaries.











23.1*Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.24.1*Powers of Attorney of Certain Directors.31.1*Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of CEO.31.2*Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of CFO.32.1*Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350, as adopted pursuant to § 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.101.1*The following financial information from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2015, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language) and filed electronically herewith: (i) the Consolidated Statements of Income; (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income; (iii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets; (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; (v) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity; and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







*    Filed with this report.

+    Represents a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.



(b)    Exhibits

PageNumberIndex to Exhibits88



(c)    Financial Statement Schedules



See Item 15(a)(2) above.



















SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Global Payments Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, onJuly 30, 2015.

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.By:/s/ Jeffrey S. SloanJeffrey S. SloanChief Executive Officer(Principal Executive Officer)By:/s/ Cameron M. BreadyCameron M. BreadyExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer(Principal Financial Officer)By:/s/ David M. SheffieldDavid M. SheffieldSenior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer(Principal Accounting Officer)



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Global Payments Inc. and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

SignatureTitleDate/s/William I Jacobs *Chairman of the BoardJuly 30, 2015William I Jacobs/s/ John G. Bruno*DirectorJuly 30, 2015John G. Bruno/s/Alex W. (Pete) Hart *DirectorJuly 30, 2015Alex W. (Pete) Hart/s/Ruth Ann Marshall *DirectorJuly 30, 2015Ruth Ann Marshall/s/  John M. Partridge *DirectorJuly 30, 2015John M. Partridge/s/Alan M. Silberstein *DirectorJuly 30, 2015Alan M. Silberstein/s/ Jeffrey S. SloanDirectorJuly 30, 2015Jeffrey S. Sloan/s/Michael W. Trapp *DirectorJuly 30, 2015Michael W. Trapp/s/Gerald J. Wilkins *DirectorJuly 30, 2015Gerald J. Wilkins*By:/s/Jeffrey S. SloanAttorney-in-factJuly 30, 2015Jeffrey S. Sloan




