ITEM 1A—RISK FACTORS



Our revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept Visa
cards and MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued Visa and MasterCard registration and financial institution sponsorship and, in some cases, continued participation in certain payment networks.



In order to provide our Visa and MasterCard transaction
processing services, we must be either a member of a payment network or be registered as a merchant processor of Visa and MasterCard. Registration as a merchant processor is dependent upon our being sponsored by member clearing banks of both
organizations. If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those services or we would need to be a member, either of which could prove to be difficult and/or more
expensive. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship or become a member we may no longer be able to provide processing services to the affected customers which would negatively impact our revenues and
earnings.



In Canada, we have filed an application
with the Canadian regulatory authorities for the formation of a wholly owned loan company in Canada which could serve as our financial institution sponsor. In the interim, through March 2012, we are processing directly through Visa in Canada. We
have also entered into an agreement with a financial institution who is willing to serve as our sponsor, if necessary.



If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. If
our merchants or ISOs incur fines or penalties that we cannot collect from them, we could end up bearing cost of fines or penalties.



In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with Visa and MasterCard as service
providers for member institutions and with other networks. As such, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions.
The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by banks that own their stock and, in the case of Discover by the card issuers, and some of those banks and issuers are our competitors with respect to these processing
services. The termination of our registrations or our status as a service provider, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost
of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If a merchant or an ISO fails to comply with the
applicable requirements of the card associations and networks, it could be subject to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks. If we cannot collect such amounts from the applicable merchant or ISO, we
could end up bearing such fines or penalties, resulting in lower earnings for us.



Security breaches could harm our reputation and adversely affect future earnings



We collect and store sensitive data about merchants, including names, addresses, social security numbers, drivers’ license numbers,
and checking account numbers. In addition, we maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including bankcard numbers, in order to process the transactions and for fraud prevention. We process that data and deliver our
products and services by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated both by us and by third party service providers. Although plans and procedures are in place to protect this sensitive data, we cannot be certain that our
measures will be successful and will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats designed to breach our systems in order to gain access to confidential information or our intellectual property.



A security breach or other misuse of such data could harm our
reputation and deter customers from using our products and services, increase our operating expenses in order to correct the breaches or failures, expose us







Index to Financial Statements

to unbudgeted or uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, result in the imposition of penalties and fines under state, federal and foreign laws or by the card networks, and
adversely affect our continued card network registration and financial institution sponsorship.



Our systems and our third-party providers’ systems may fail which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business, increase our costs and expose us to liability.



We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of
our computer network systems, software, data center and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption
from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist acts, war, unauthorized entry, human error, and computer viruses or other defects. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays
in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures or other difficulties could result in loss of revenue, loss of merchants, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud losses or
other liabilities, negative publicity, additional operating and development costs, and/or diversion of technical and other resources. We perform the vast majority of disaster recovery operations ourselves, though we utilize select third parties for
some aspects of recovery. To the extent we outsource our disaster recovery, we are at risk of the vendor’s unresponsiveness in the event of breakdowns in our systems.



Utility and system interruptions could adversely affect our operations.



In order to process transactions promptly,
our computer equipment and network servers must be functional on a 24-hour basis, which requires access to telecommunications facilities and the availability of electricity, which are susceptible to disruption. Any resulting disruptions in our
processing services could cause us to incur substantial additional expense and the loss of customers, which could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial condition.



We may experience software defects, undetected errors, and development
delays, which could damage customer relations, decrease our potential profitability and expose us to liability.



Our products are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays, and the underlying
software may contain undetected errors or defects. Defects in our software products and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our
other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential customers, harm to our reputation, or exposure to liability claims.



In addition, we rely on technologies supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Loss of key Independent Sales Organizations could reduce our revenue growth.



Our ISO sales channel, which purchases and resells our end-to-end services to its own portfolio of merchant customers, is a strong
contributor to our revenue growth in our North America merchant services segment. If an ISO switches to another transaction processor, shuts down, becomes insolvent, or enters the processing business themselves, we may no longer receive new merchant
referrals from the ISO, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO, all of which could negatively affect our revenues and earnings.



Risks associated with foreign operations and investments outside the
United States could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.



We have foreign operations and a number of investments in foreign entities whose functional currency is their local currency. We are
subject to the risk that currency exchange rates between these regions and the United







Index to Financial Statements

States will fluctuate, potentially resulting in a loss of some of our revenue and earnings when such amounts are exchanged into United States dollars. Volatility in currency exchange rates has
affected and may continue to affect our financial results. For example, for fiscal year 2011, currency exchange rate fluctuations increased our revenues by $19.2 million and our earnings by $0.08 per diluted share. We historically have not used
forward contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the risks associated with currency exchange risk.



We also have indirect foreign investments which are subject to country risk (such as sovereign, economic, political, and location risks).
These investments are short term in nature and with private sector issuers. Country risk could impact the valuation and liquidity of those investments.



In addition, in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might
restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign currency into United States dollars or limit our ability to freely move currency in or out of particular jurisdictions. The occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we
receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business.



Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources than we do, which may give them an advantage in our market with respect to the pricing of our products and
services offered to our customers, our ability to develop new technologies, and our ability to complete acquisitions.



We operate in the electronic payments market, which is highly competitive. Our primary competitors in these markets include other
independent processors, as well as financial institutions, independent sales organizations, and, potentially, card networks. Many of our competitors are companies who are larger than we are and have greater financial and operational resources than
we have. In addition, our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a bank for registration with the card networks. These factors may allow them to
offer better pricing terms to customers, which could result in a loss of our potential or current customers or could force us to lower our prices as well. Either of these actions could have a significant effect on our revenues and earnings.



In addition, our competitors may have the ability
to devote more financial and operational resources than we can to the development of new technologies, including internet payment processing services that provide improved operating functionality and features to their product and service offerings.
If successful, their development efforts could render our product and services offerings less desirable to customers, again resulting in the loss of customers or a reduction in the price we could demand for our offerings. Lastly, our competitors may
be willing or able to pay more than us for acquisitions, which may cause us to lose certain acquisitions that we would otherwise desire to complete.



We are subject to the business cycles and credit risk of our merchant customers and our independent sales organizations.



Economic downturns could affect our merchants through a
higher rate of bankruptcy filings, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our merchants are liable for any charges properly reversed by the card issuer on behalf of the cardholder. Our merchants and ISOs are also liable for any fines, or
penalties, that may be assessed by any card networks. In the event, however, that we are not able to collect such amounts from the merchants or ISOs, due to merchant fraud, breach of contract, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be
liable for any such charges, resulting in lower earnings for us.



Risks associated with reduced levels of consumer spending could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.



Significant portions of our revenue and earnings are derived
from fees from processing consumer credit card and debit card transactions. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A
general reduction in consumer spending in the United States or any other country where we do business could adversely







Index to Financial Statements

affect our revenues and earnings. A further weakening in the economy could also force retailers to close resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines.
Additionally, credit card issuers have been reducing credit limits, closing accounts, and are more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards.



We incur chargeback liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers. We cannot accurately
anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.



In the event a billing dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally
“charged back” to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant’s account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant
refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise
future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants may adversely
affect our financial condition and results of operations.



Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.



We have potential liability for fraudulent bankcard
transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit bankcard or card number to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid bankcard, or
intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit and fraud. While we have systems and
procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of fraud, we cannot assure the effectiveness of these measures. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would
increase our chargeback liability or cause us to incur other liabilities. Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.



In order to remain competitive and to continue to increase our revenues
and earnings, we must continually update our products and services, a process which could result in increased research and development costs in excess of historical levels and the loss of revenues, earnings and customers if the new products and
services do not perform as intended or are not accepted in the marketplace.









Index to Financial Statements

In order for us to continue to grow and increase our profitability, we must continue to expand our share
of the existing electronic payments markets and also expand into new markets.



Our future growth and profitability depend upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion of these markets, the emergence of other markets for
electronic transaction payment processing, and our ability to penetrate these markets. As part of our strategy to achieve this expansion, we are continually looking for acquisition opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other
businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition, investment and alliance candidates in
the future, and if we do, they may not provide us with the benefits we anticipated. Once completed, investments and alliances may not realize the value that we expect.



Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our
ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure products and distribution
channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets. If we fail to expand into new and existing electronic payments markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings.



Any new or changes made to laws, regulations, card network rules or other
industry standards affecting our business in any of the geographic regions in which we operate may require significant development efforts or have an unfavorable impact to our financial results.



We are subject to laws and regulations that affect the
electronic payments industry in the countries in which we operate. Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with any laws and regulations that apply to us may result
in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.
For example, we are subject to; the card network rules of Visa, MasterCard, and other card networks, Interac, and various debit networks; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; The Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card Industry in Canada
(issued by Canada’s Department of Finance); and the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008, which requires information returns to be made for each calendar year by merchant acquiring entities starting in 2011; as well as a myriad of other
regulations, including escheat regulations and applicable privacy and information security regulations to name a few. We are also subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council or FFIEC (as a result of our provision
of data processing services to financial institutions).



Interchange fees (which are typically paid by the acquirer to the issuer in connection with transactions) are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory, and legislative scrutiny worldwide. For
instance, in the United States, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) was enacted to regulate the fees charged or received by issuers for processing debit transactions and the transaction routing
options available to merchants. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board adopted the final rule implementing the interchange fee and routing provisions in Dodd-Frank. Payment card networks and issuers are still making decisions regarding
their implementation of such final rule. These decisions and regulatory actions, even if not directed at us, may require significant efforts to change our systems and products and may require changes to how we price our services to customers. Until
final decisions and regulations around implementation are announced, we cannot predict the impact of any of these changes on our operations and financial condition.



Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or
enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on our business. In addition, even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our
business or our reputation.



Increases in credit card network
fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in our earnings.



From time to time, the card networks, including Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees (interchange and assessment fees) that they charge processors such as us. We may attempt to pass these increases
along to our







Index to Financial Statements

merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of those customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. If competitive practices prevent our passing along such
increased fees to our merchant customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases thereby increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings.



The integration and conversion of our acquired operations, or other future
acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating both businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss
of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process.



The acquisition, integration, and conversion of businesses involves a number of risks. Core risks are in the area of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited
diligence) and integration and conversion (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company’s people, products, technology, and other assets to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to
be realized in connection with the acquisition). In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems, and facilities; integrating
personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with foreign regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty
entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of those new markets; and general economic and political conditions.



If the integration and conversion process does not proceed
smoothly, the following factors, amongst others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in a loss of projected synergies:



•If we are unable to successfully integrate the benefits plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and
employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors in the region, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration;



•If the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers to our
competitors, which would reduce our revenues and earnings; and



•The acquisition and the related integration could divert the attention of our management from other strategic matters including possible acquisitions
and alliances and planning for new product development or expansion into new electronic payments markets.



There may be a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry
in general.



If consumers do not continue to
use payment cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards which is adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and
results of operations. We believe future growth in the use of credit cards will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our
profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use credit cards. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the credit card industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for our customers to
do business, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected.



Continued consolidation in the banking and retail industries could adversely affect our growth.



The recent economic downturn has resulted in multiple bank failures and government-encouraged consolidation. As banks continue to
consolidate, our ability to offer our services through indirect channels successfully will depend in part on whether the institutions that survive are willing to outsource their credit and







Index to Financial Statements

debit card processing to third party vendors and whether those institutions have pre-existing relationships with any of our competitors. Larger banks and larger merchants with greater transaction
volumes may demand lower fees which could result in lower revenues and earnings for us.



If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected.



We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key personnel who have substantial
experience with our operations, the rapidly changing transaction processing industry, and the selected markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of our key personnel, would have an
adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage, and retain additional qualified management and technical personnel as we grow. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract or retain
such personnel.



Our financial results may be adversely
affected if we have to impair our intangible assets or goodwill.



As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for
approximately 33% and 38% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of May 31, 2011 and May 31, 2010, respectively. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional
acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any
determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. For example, during fiscal year 2009 we recorded a pre-tax charge of $147.7
million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets of our money transfer business, which we sold during fiscal year 2010. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.



Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or changes to enacted tax
rates could adversely affect our tax expense.



Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local, and international taxing authorities. An
unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expenses, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. We have established contingent liabilities for material known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and
other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. These liabilities reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority. While we
believe that the liabilities are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial cost less than any related liability. An
unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively impact our effective tax, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and future periods.



We record deferred income taxes to reflect the impact of
temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial accounting and income tax purposes. Deferred income taxes are determined using enacted tax rates. Changes in enacted tax rates may negatively impact our results of
operations.



We may become subject to additional United States,
state or foreign taxes that cannot be passed through to our merchant services customers, in which case our earnings could be adversely affected.



Payment processing companies like us may be subject to taxation by various jurisdictions on our net income or certain portions of our fees
charged to customers for our services. Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and the taxing authorities have not yet all adopted uniform regulations on this topic. If we are required to pay such taxes and are not able to
pass the tax expense through to our merchant customers, our costs will increase, reducing our earnings.







Index to Financial Statements

We have structured our business in accordance with existing tax laws and interpretations of
such laws which have been confirmed through either tax rulings or opinions obtained in various jurisdictions including those related to value added taxes in Europe. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we
receive, the amount of our cash flow, and have a material adverse impact on our business.



Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.



Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to
evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual
report. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.



Further, this assessment
may be complicated by any acquisitions we may complete. In certain markets in the Asia-Pacific region and in Spain, our member sponsors perform payment processing operations and related support services pursuant to services
agreements. We expect that the member sponsors will continue to provide these services until such time as we may integrate these functions into our operations. Accordingly, we rely on our member sponsors to provide financial data,
such as revenue billed to merchants, to assist us with compiling our accounting records. As such, our internal controls over financial reporting could be materially affected, or are reasonably likely to be materially affected, by the internal
controls and procedures of our member sponsors in these markets. In order to mitigate this risk, we have implemented internal controls over financial reporting which monitor the accuracy of the financial data being provided by our member
sponsors.



While we continue to dedicate resources
and management time to ensuring that we have effective controls over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the market’s perception of our business
and our stock price.



Anti-takeover provisions of our articles
of incorporation and by-laws, our rights agreement and provisions of Georgia law could delay or prevent a change of control that individual shareholders favor.



Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, our
rights agreement and provisions of applicable Georgia law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that shareholders may consider favorable. The provisions of our articles and by-laws, among other things:



•divide our Board of Directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms;



•limit the right of shareholders to remove directors;



•regulate how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of shareholders; and



•authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares in one or more series, without shareholder approval.



We may not be able to or we may decide not to pay dividends at a level
anticipated by shareholders on our common stock, which could reduce shareholder returns.



The payment of dividends on our common stock in the future is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other factors, our earnings, stockholder’s equity, cash position,
and financial condition. No assurance can be given that we will be able to or will choose to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future.







Index to Financial Statements

We conduct a portion of our business in various Eastern European and Asia-Pacific countries, and the
Russian Federation, where the risk of continued political, economic and regulatory change that could impact our operating results is greater than in the United States.



We expect to continue to expand our operations into various
countries in Eastern Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. Some of these countries, and other foreign countries in which we operate, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years, and the risk of new, unforeseen
changes in these countries remains greater than in the United States. In particular, changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise, could materially
adversely affect our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations.



Transmittal of data by electronic means and telecommunications is subject to specific regulation in many countries. Although these regulations have not had a material impact on us to date, changes in
these regulations, including taxation or limitations on transfers of data between countries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations.



ITEM 2—PROPERTIES



The following summarizes the type of facilities we use to operate our business as of May 31, 2011:



Type of FacilityLeasedOwnedFacilities in the United States:Multi-Purpose (Operations, Sales, Administrative)6—Operations/Customer Support2—Sales and retail branches2—10—International Facilities:Multi-Purpose (Operations, Sales, Administrative)23Operations/Customer Support13—Sales and retail branches16—313Total413



Our principal facilities in
the United States are located in Atlanta, Georgia and Owings Mills, Maryland. Our principal international facilities are located in Toronto, Canada; Prague, Czech Republic; Leicester, England; London, England; the Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region; Manila, Philippines; Moscow, Russian Federation; and Barcelona, Spain.



We believe that all of our facilities and equipment are suitable and adequate for our business as presently conducted.



ITEM 3—LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



We are party to a number of claims and lawsuits incidental to the normal course of our business. In our opinion, the liabilities, if any,
which may ultimately result from the outcome of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations.







Index to Financial Statements

PART II



ITEM 5—MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES



Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under
the ticker symbol “GPN.” The table set forth below provides the intraday high and low sales prices and dividends paid per share of our common stock for the four quarters during fiscal 2011 and 2010. We expect to continue to pay our
shareholders a dividend per share, on a quarterly basis, in an amount comparable to the dividends indicated in the table. However, any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend
upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.



HighLowDividendPer ShareFiscal 2011:First Quarter$42.88$34.61$0.02Second Quarter43.5237.680.02Third Quarter49.9541.730.02Fourth Quarter53.6745.540.02Fiscal 2010:First Quarter$44.09$35.59$0.02Second Quarter54.3441.960.02Third Quarter54.5242.500.02Fourth Quarter48.9640.180.02



The number of shareholders of
record of our common stock as of July 15, 2011 was 2,302.



Equity Compensation Plan Information



The information regarding our compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance is set forth in
“Item 12—Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” of this Report.



Sale of Unregistered Securities



We have not issued any unregistered securities during our fiscal years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.







Index to Financial Statements

Stock Performance Graph



The following line-graph presentation compares our
cumulative shareholder returns with the Standard & Poor’s Information Technology Index and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index for the past five years. The line graph assumes the investment of $100 in our common stock,
the Standard & Poor’s Information Technology Index, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index on May 31, 2006 and assumes reinvestment of all dividends.







GlobalPaymentsS&P500S&PInformationTechnologyMay 31, 2006$100.00$100.00$100.00May 31, 200786.13122.79123.03May 31, 2008101.77114.57126.17May 31, 200977.6777.2689.88May 31, 201091.2993.47115.48May 31, 2011112.63109.18133.48



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



On April 23, 2010, our Board of
Directors approved a share repurchase program that authorized the purchase of up to $100 million of Global Payments’ stock in the open market or as otherwise may be determined by us, subject to market conditions, business opportunities and
other factors. Under this authorization, we repurchased 2,382,890 shares of our common stock at a cost of $100.0 million, or an average of $41.97 per share, including commissions during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Repurchased shares are held
as treasury stock.







Index to Financial Statements

During the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we also used the $13.0 million remaining under the
authorization from our original share repurchase program initiated during fiscal 2007 to repurchase 344,847 shares of our common stock a cost of $13.0 million, or an average of $37.64 per share, including commissions. These repurchased shares are
also held as treasury stock. The remaining shares repurchased under this authorization were retired and are considered issued but not outstanding.



The shares repurchased in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, the average price paid, including commissions, and the dollar value remaining
available for purchase are as follows:



PeriodTotal Number ofShares (or Units)Purchased(a)AveragePrice Paid 
perShare (or Unit)(b)Total Number ofShares (or Units)Purchased as Part ofPublicly
AnnouncedPlans or Programs(c)MaximumNumber
(orApproximateDollar Value) ofShares (or Units)that May Yet BePurchased Underthe Plans orPrograms(d)March 1, 2011—March 31, 2011—$———April 1, 2011—April 30, 2011————May 1, 2011—May 31, 2011————Total————







Index to Financial Statements

ITEM 6—SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



You should read the selected financial data set forth below
in conjunction with “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included elsewhere in this annual report.
As a result of our disposition of the money transfer business, this segment has been accounted for as a discontinued operation. The income statement data for fiscal years ended May 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 and the balance sheet data as of
May 31, 2011 and 2010 are derived from the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. The income statement data for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 and the balance sheet data as of May 31, 2009 and 2008
were derived from consolidated financial statements included in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2009. The balance sheet data as of May 31, 2007 was derived from audited consolidated financial statements included in our Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2008. Amounts related to our discontinued operations in our statements of income for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 were reclassified in fiscal year 2010 to conform to the current presentation.



Year Ended May 31,20112010200920082007(in thousands, except per share data)Income statement data:Revenue$1,859,802$1,642,468$1,462,306$1,130,608$929,142Operating income (1)331,594323,279292,546237,723203,613Income from continuing operations (1)229,131223,010207,017161,198142,735Net income attributable to Global Payments (1).(2)209,238203,31737,217162,754142,985Per share data:Basic earnings per share$2.62$2.51$0.46$2.04$1.78Diluted earnings per share2.602.480.462.011.75Dividends per share0.080.080.080.080.08Balance sheet data (at year end):Total assets$3,350,531$2,039,326$1,676,821$1,445,907$1,200,629Borrowings under lines of credit270,74579,18710,1741,527—Long-term debt354,019421,134197,003——Total equity (3)1,337,817871,517678,2431,054,152918,811



(1)Includes impairment, restructuring and other charges of $2,583, $1,317, and $3,088, in fiscal 2010, 2008, and 2007, respectively.

(2)Also includes a pre-tax impairment charge of $147,664 in fiscal 2009 related to our money transfer business that has been reclassified to discontinued operations.

(3)Includes the impact of the retrospective adoption of new accounting guidance concerning noncontrolling interests adopted in fiscal year 2010.







Index to Financial Statements

ITEM 7—MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the future. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions
and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking statements as a result of many known and unknown factors, including but not
limited to those discussed in “Item 1A—Risk Factors” of this report. See also “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” located above “Item 1—Business.”



You should read the following discussion and analysis in
conjunction with “Item 6—Selected Financial Data” and “Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” appearing elsewhere in this annual report.



General



We are a provider of electronic payments transaction processing services for consumers, merchants, Independent
Sales Organizations (ISOs), financial institutions, government agencies and multi-national corporations located throughout the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Asia-Pacific region, the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation.
We serve as an intermediary to facilitate payments transactions and operate in two business segments, North America Merchant Services and International Merchant Services. We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in September 2000 and
spun-off from our former parent company on January 31, 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in business since 1967.



Our North America Merchant Services and International Merchant Services segments target customers in many vertical industries including
financial institutions, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, nonprofit organizations and utilities.



Our offerings provide merchants, ISOs and financial institutions with credit and debit card transaction processing and check-related
services. The majority of our business model provides payment products and services directly to merchants as our end customers. We also provide similar products and services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn,
resell our products and services, in which case, the financial institutions and select ISOs are our end customers. These particular services are marketed in the United States, Canada, and parts of Eastern Europe.



The majority of merchant services revenue is generated on
services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type. We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value. The
majority of credit cards and signature debit cards, which are only a U.S. based card type, are based on a percentage of transaction value along with other related fees, while PIN debit cards are typically a fee per transaction.



Our products and services are marketed through a variety of
sales channels that include a dedicated direct sales force, ISOs, an internal telesales group, retail outlets, trade associations, alliance bank relationships and financial institutions. We seek to leverage the rapid adoption of, and transition to,
card based payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels or through acquisitions in North America, the Asia-Pacific region and Europe, and investing in and leveraging technology and people, thereby
maximizing shareholder value. We also seek to enter new markets through acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, and South America.



Our business does not have pronounced seasonality in which more than 30% of our revenues occur in one quarter. However, each geographic
channel has somewhat higher and lower quarters given the nature of the portfolio. For example, in our North American channels, the first and fourth quarters are generally the strongest, and the third quarter tends to be the slowest due to lower
volumes in the months of January and February. In contrast, Asia-Pacific typically has a stronger third quarter, and the first quarter in Asia-Pacific and the United Kingdom, tends to be slower.







Index to Financial Statements

Executive Overview



On December 20, 2010, we acquired a 51% controlling
financial interest in Comercia Global Payments Entidad de Pago, S.L. (“Comercia”), a newly formed company into which Caixa d’Estalvis i Pensions de Barcelona (“la Caixa”) contributed its merchant acquiring business in Spain.
“la Caixa” owns the remaining 49% of Comercia. We purchased our share of Comercia for €125 million. The shareholders contributed a total of €6.4 million as initial capital to form Comercia. Our total investment in Comercia,
including our 51% share of the initial capital was €128.3 million ($173.5 million as of the closing date). We manage the day-to-day operations of the corporation, control all major decisions and, accordingly, consolidate the
corporation’s financial results for accounting purposes effective with the closing date. In conjunction with the acquisition, “la Caixa” agreed to a twenty-year marketing alliance agreement in which “la Caixa” will refer
customers to Comercia for payment processing services in Spain and provide sponsorship into the card networks. We funded the purchase with a combination of existing cash resources in Europe and borrowings on our Corporate Credit Facility.



Revenues increased $217.3 million during fiscal
2011 compared to the prior year. Revenue growth was driven by our North America merchant services segment as a result of our direct ISO channel which continues to gain market share in the United States. Revenues for fiscal 2011 also increased by 18%
in our International merchant services segment compared to the prior year. This increase is due to the impact of our acquisition in Spain on December 20, 2010. In addition, our merchant services revenue increased due to business performance in
the United Kingdom, Russia, and, particularly, the Asia Pacific region.



Consolidated operating margins during fiscal 2011 declined to 17.8% compared to 19.7% in the prior year. The decline in operating margins is due to the dilutive impact of ISO transactions, Canada pricing
compression, the dilutive impact of our Spain acquisition and increased corporate costs, offset by improved margins in the International merchant services segment. Sales, general and administrative costs increased $128.6 million, or 18% due to
employee termination benefits, relocation benefits and expenses related to a new Global Service Center in Manila, Philippines, and proportional increases in commission payments to ISOs as a percentage of ISO revenues.



For the fiscal year 2011, currency exchange rate fluctuations
increased our revenues by $19.2 million and our earnings by $0.08 per diluted share. To calculate this impact, we converted our fiscal 2011 actual revenues and expenses from continuing operations using average exchange rates for fiscal 2010.







Index to Financial Statements

Results of Operations



Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2011 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended
May 31, 2010



The following
table shows key selected financial data for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2011 and 2010, this data as a percentage of total revenues, and the changes between fiscal years in dollars and as a percentage of fiscal 2010.



2011% ofRevenue 
(1)2010% ofRevenue ( 1)Change%Change(dollar amounts in thousands)Revenues:United States$1,031,99755%$902,84455%$129,15314%Canada330,87218317,2721913,6004North America merchant services1,362,869731,220,11674142,75312Europe359,56719315,0231944,54414Asia-Pacific137,3667107,329730,03728International merchant services496,93327422,3522674,58118Total revenues$1,859,802100%$1,642,468100%$217,33413%Consolidated operating expenses:Cost of service$665,01735.8%$584,60935.6%$80,40814%Sales, general and administrative863,19146.4734,58044.7128,61118Operating income$331,59417.8%$323,27919.7%$8,3153%Operating income for segments:North America merchant services$268,233$275,386$(7,153)(3)%International merchant services143,911113,69930,21227Corporate(80,550)(65,806)(14,744)(22)Operating income$331,594$323,279$8,3153%Operating margin for segments:North America merchant services19.7%22.6%(2.9)%International merchant services29.0%26.9%2.1%



(1)Percentage amounts may not sum to the total due to rounding.



Revenues



We derive our revenues from three primary sources: charges based on volumes and fees for services, charges based on transaction quantity,
and equipment sales, leases and service fees. Revenues generated by these areas depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the technological competitiveness of our product offerings, our reputation for providing
timely and reliable service, competition within our industry and general economic conditions.



For fiscal 2011, revenues increased 13% to $1,859.8 million compared to the prior year.







Index to Financial Statements

North America Merchant Services Segment



For fiscal 2011, revenue from our North America merchant services segment increased 12% to $1,362.9 million.



We grow our United States revenue by adding small
and mid-market merchants in diversified vertical markets, primarily through our ISO channel. For fiscal 2011, United States revenue grew 14% as transaction growth of 18% was offset by a 4% decrease in average dollar amount per transaction
(“average ticket”). We believe this decline in average ticket is due to a shift toward smaller merchants added through our ISO channel. Smaller merchants tend to have lower average tickets when compared to larger merchants. The effect
of consumers replacing cash-based payments with debit card transactions increases volume but also lowers our overall United States average ticket amounts. Based on our mix of merchants, slightly more than half of our United States transactions
are comprised of a combination of signature- and PIN-based debit, with PIN-based debit representing less than 10% of our total transactions.



For fiscal 2011, our Canadian revenue increased 4% compared to the prior year period. The increase in revenue was due to favorable foreign
currency trends in Canada, which were offset, on a year-to-date basis, by reduced spreads due to market-driven pricing pressure compared to the prior year.



International Merchant Services Segment



For fiscal 2011, International merchant services revenue increased 18% to $496.9 million.



Our Europe merchant services revenue for fiscal 2011
increased 14% to $359.6 million compared to the prior year period. Our Europe merchant services revenue increased primarily due to the impact of our acquisition in Spain on December 20, 2010.



Asia-Pacific merchant services revenue for fiscal 2011
increased 28% to $137.4 million compared to the prior year period. The growth was due to business performance in the Asia-Pacific region helped by the roll-out of new products by a major retailer with both physical and e-commerce transactions in
several markets in the region and continued growth of our installment payment plan and dynamic currency conversion products.



Consolidated Operating Expenses



Cost of service consists primarily of the following costs: operations-related personnel, including those who monitor our transaction
processing systems and settlement functions; assessment fees paid to card networks; transaction processing systems, including third-party services such as the costs for transition services paid to HSBC in the Asia-Pacific market and the United
Kingdom; network telecommunications capability; depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities performing these functions; amortization of intangible assets; and provisions for operating losses.



Cost of service increased 14% to $665.0 million for fiscal
2011 compared to the prior year. As a percentage of revenue, cost of service increased to 35.8% of revenue for fiscal 2011 from 35.6% for the prior year.



Sales, general and administrative expenses consists primarily of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to sales personnel; non-revenue
producing customer support functions and administrative employees and management; commissions paid to ISOs, independent contractors, and other third parties, advertising costs; other selling expenses, share-based compensation expenses and occupancy
of leased space directly related to these functions.



Sales, general and administrative expenses increased 18% to $863.2 million for fiscal 2011 compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily due to employee termination benefits, relocation benefits
and expenses related to a new Global Service Center in Manila, Philippines, and proportional increases in commission payments to ISOs as a percentage of ISO revenues.







Index to Financial Statements

Operating Income and Operating Margin for Segments



For the purpose of discussing segment operations, we refer
to operating income as calculated by subtracting segment direct expenses from segment revenue. Overhead and shared expenses, including share-based compensation costs, are not allocated to segment operations; they are reported in the caption
“Corporate.” Similarly, references to operating margin regarding segment operations mean segment operating income divided by segment revenue.



North America Merchant Services Segment



Operating income in the North America merchant services segment decreased 3% to $268.2 million for fiscal 2011 compared to the prior year.
The operating margin was 19.7% and 22.6% for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Growth in the U.S. ISO channel reduced margins in fiscal 2011. The ISO channel generally has a dilutive effect on our operating margin compared to our other channels
due to the ongoing commission payments to the ISOs. North America margins were also unfavorably affected by competitive pricing pressure in Canada.



International Merchant Services Segment



Operating income in International merchant services increased 27% to $143.9 million for fiscal 2011 compared to the prior year. The
operating margin was 29.0% and 26.9% for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in operating margin is due to improving economies of scale and growth in the International merchant services segment. We completed the migration of merchants
in the United Kingdom to our back-end processing platform at the end of February 2011.



Corporate



Our corporate expenses include costs associated with our Atlanta headquarters, the Global Service Center in Manila, Philippines, insurance, employee incentive programs, and certain corporate staffing
areas, including finance, accounting, legal, human resources, marketing, and executive. Corporate also includes expenses associated with our share-based compensation programs.



Our corporate costs increased 22% to $80.6 million for fiscal
2011 compared to the prior year. These increases are primarily due to expenses related to our new Global Service Center in Manila, Philippines and employee termination and relocation benefits.



Consolidated Operating Income



During fiscal 2011, our consolidated operating income
increased $8.3 million to $331.6 million compared to the prior year. The increase in our consolidated operating income is due to the increases in our International merchant services segment, offset by a decrease in North America merchant services
and increased corporate, sales, general and administrative expenses as discussed above.



Consolidated Other Income/Expense, Net



Other expense, net, decreased to $7.4 million for fiscal 2011 compared to expense of $12.9 million in the prior year. The decrease in other expense is due to lower interest expense because of lower term
loan borrowings outstanding and lower interest rates. In addition, we recognized a previously deferred gain of $2.6 million, which was recognized during fiscal 2011 for the sale of our 20% interest in Global Payments Credit Services
(“GPCS”) to Equifax Decision Systems, BV. See Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements for further information.







Index to Financial Statements

Provision for Income Taxes



Our effective tax rates, reflected as the provision for income taxes divided by income from continuing
operations before income tax, were 29.3% and 28.2% for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. During fiscal 2011 our effective tax rate was negatively impacted by an adjustment to our UK deferred tax asset driven by the corporate tax rate reduction in
the United Kingdom enacted in July 2010.



We have
net deferred tax assets associated with our UK business of $100.6 million. The measurement of such deferred tax assets is based, in part, on the current enacted corporate tax rate in the United Kingdom of 27%. The 2011 United Kingdom budget includes
a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 27% to 26%. Upon enactment of this rate, which is expected during the first half of our fiscal year 2012, we estimate that we will record a reduction of our UK deferred tax asset and an corresponding
increase to our deferred income tax provision of approximately $2.5 million.



Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests



Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased to $18.9 million from $15.8 million in the prior year primarily due to our
acquisition of a 51% controlling financial interest in Comercia on December 20, 2010.



Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2009



The following table shows key selected financial data for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, this data as a percentage of
total revenues, and the changes between fiscal years in dollars and as a percentage of fiscal 2009.



2010% ofRevenue (1)2009% ofRevenue(1)Change%Change(dollar amounts in thousands)Revenues:United States$902,84455%$805,55755%$97,28712%Canada317,27219301,2942115,9785North America merchant services1,220,116741,106,85176113,26510Europe315,02319265,1211849,90219Asia-Pacific107,329790,334616,99519International merchant services422,35226355,4552466,89719Total revenues$1,642,468100%$1,462,306100%$180,16212%Consolidated operating expenses:Cost of service$584,60935.6%$504,85534.5%$79,75416%Sales, general and administrative734,58044.7664,90545.569,67510Operating income$323,27919.7%$292,54620.0%$30,73310%Operating income for segments:North America merchant services$275,386$272,972$2,4141%International merchant services113,69982,76330,93637Corporate(65,806)(63,189)(2,617)(4)Operating income$323,279$292,546$30,73310%Operating margin for segments:North America merchant services22.6%24.7%(2.1)%International merchant services26.9%23.3%3.6%



(1)Percentage amounts may not sum to the total due to rounding.







Index to Financial Statements

Revenues



We derive our revenues from three primary sources: charges
based on volumes and fees for services, charges based on transaction quantity and equipment sales, leases and service fees. Revenues generated by these areas depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the
technological competitiveness of our product offerings, our reputation for providing timely and reliable service, competition within our industry and general economic conditions. In fiscal 2010, revenues increased 12% to $1,642.5 million compared to
the prior year.







Index to Financial Statements

North America Merchant Services Segment



In fiscal 2010, revenue from our North America merchant services segment increased 10% to $1,220.1 million
compared to the prior year.





For fiscal 2010, our Canadian revenue increased 5% compared to the prior year. This growth was due to favorable foreign currency trends,
offset by challenging macroeconomic conditions which resulted in reduced spreads due to market-driven pricing pressure as compared to the prior year.



International Merchant Services Segment



For fiscal 2010, International merchant services revenue increased 19% to $422.4 million compared to the prior year. Our Europe merchant
services revenue for fiscal 2010 increased 19% to $315.0 million compared to the prior year. This growth was primarily due to our April 30, 2009 acquisition of UCS in the Russian Federation, in addition to solid business performance in the
United Kingdom.



Asia-Pacific merchant services
revenue for fiscal 2010 increased 19% to $107.3 million compared to the prior year period. The growth was primarily due to business performance in the Asia Pacific region driven in part by the increasing penetration of dynamic currency conversion
products in the region. The growth for the fiscal 2010 also reflects our acquisition of Global Payments Asia-Pacific Philippines Incorporated on September 4, 2008.



Consolidated Operating Expenses



Cost of service consists primarily of the following costs:
operations-related personnel, including those who monitor our transaction processing systems and settlement functions; assessment fees paid to card networks; transaction processing systems, including third-party services such as the costs of
settlement channels for transition services paid to HSBC in the Asia-Pacific market and the United Kingdom; network telecommunications capability, depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities performing these functions;
amortization of intangible assets; and provisions for operating losses.



Cost of service increased 16% to $584.6 million for fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year’s comparable period. As a percentage of revenue, cost of service increased to 35.6% of revenue for the
fiscal 2010 from 34.5% for the prior year. The growth in cost of service expenses was due to our UCS acquisition, increases in variable processing expenses such as card network assessments and fees associated with our revenue growth and the impact
of our June 30, 2008 acquisition of 51% of HSBC Merchant Services LLP.







Index to Financial Statements

Sales, general and administrative expenses consists primarily of salaries, wages and related
expenses paid to sales personnel, non-revenue producing customer support functions and administrative employees and management, commissions to independent contractors and ISOs, advertising costs, other selling expenses, share-based compensation
expenses and occupancy of leased space directly related to these functions.



Sales, general and administrative expenses increased 10% to $734.6 million for fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year’s comparable period. As a percentage of revenue, these expenses decreased to
44.7% for fiscal 2010 compared to 45.5% in the prior year’s comparable period.



Operating Income and Operating Margin for Segments



For the purpose of discussing segment operations, we refer to operating income as calculated by subtracting segment direct expenses from
segment revenue. Overhead and shared expenses, including share-based compensation costs, are not allocated to the segments’ operations; they are reported in the caption “Corporate.” Similarly, references to operating margin regarding
segment operations mean segment operating income divided by segment revenue.



North America Merchant Services Segment



Operating income in the North America merchant services segment increased 1% to $275.4 million for fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year’s comparable period. The operating margin was 22.6% and 24.7%
for the fiscal years ended, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Growth in the United States ISO channel reduced margins for fiscal 2010. The ISO channel generally has a dilutive effect on our operating margin compared to our other channels due to the
ongoing commission payments to the ISOs.



International
Merchant Services Segment



Operating income
in the International merchant services segment increased 37% to $113.7 million for fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year’s comparable period. The operating margin was 26.9% and 23.3% for the fiscal years ended, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The
increase in operating margin is due to the acquisition of HSBC Merchant Services LLP and the higher operating margins in the United Kingdom and expanding margins in the Asia-Pacific region.



Corporate

Our corporate expenses primarily include costs associated with our Atlanta headquarters, insurance, employee incentive programs, and certain corporate staffing areas, including finance, accounting, legal,
human resources, marketing, and executive. Our corporate costs increased 4% to $65.8 million for fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year’s comparable period.



Consolidated Operating Income



During fiscal 2010, our consolidated operating income
increased $30.7 million to $323.3 million compared to the prior year’s comparable period. This increase was primarily due to the impact of growth in our International merchant services segment.



Consolidated Other Income/Expense, Net



Other income and expense consists primarily of interest
income and interest expense. Other expense, net increased to $12.9 million for fiscal 2010 compared to $0.3 million in the prior year’s comparable period. This increase in other expense, net was primarily due to higher debt balances and, to a
lesser extent, lower interest income. Interest rates decreased during fiscal 2010 when compared to the prior year. This decline in interest rates partially offset the impact of increased debt balances on interest expense and contributed to lower
interest income.







Index to Financial Statements

Provision for Income Taxes



Our effective tax rates were 28.2% and 29.2% for fiscal years, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The reductions of
our effective tax rates are due to domestic and international tax planning initiatives and the increasing amount of income being generated in lower tax jurisdictions due to international expansion.



Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax



During fiscal 2010, we reported a net loss from discontinued
operations of $3.9 million ($0.04 diluted loss per share) compared to a net loss of $132.8 million ($1.64 diluted loss per share) in the prior year. The prior year results reflect our pre-tax impairment charge of $147.7 million in our money transfer
business during the three months ended February 28, 2009. During fiscal 2010, loss from discontinued operations, net of tax includes an estimated pre-tax loss on disposal of $24.6 million and an income tax benefit associated with the disposal
of $15.7 million.



Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling
Interests



Noncontrolling interests, net
of tax decreased to $15.8 million from $37.0 million for the fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease was due to our June 2009 acquisition of the remaining 49% of HSBC Merchant Services LLP.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



A significant portion of our liquidity comes from operating
cash flows and available lines of credit, which are generally sufficient to fund operations, planned capital expenditures, debt service and various strategic investments in our business. Cash flow from operations is used to make planned capital
investments in our business, to pursue acquisitions that meet our corporate objectives, to pay dividends, and to pay off debt and repurchase our shares at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Accumulated cash balances are invested in
high-quality and marketable short term instruments.



Our capital plan objectives are to support our operational needs and strategic plan for long-term growth while maintaining a low cost of
capital. Lines of credit are used in certain of our markets to fund settlement and as a source of working capital and, along with other bank financing, to fund acquisitions. We regularly evaluate our liquidity and capital position relative to cash
objectives, and we may elect to raise additional funds in the future, either through the issuance of debt, equity or otherwise. To meet our current capital plan objectives, we entered into a new, unsecured five-year, $600 million revolving credit
facility on December 7, 2010. Please seeLong-Term Debt and Credit Facilitiesbelow for further information regarding this facility.



At May 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $1,354.3 million. Of this amount, we consider approximately $240 million
to be available cash. Our available cash balance includes $165.0 million of cash held by foreign subsidiaries that are considered permanently reinvested for income tax purposes. These cash balances reflect the accumulation of cash flows generated by
each subsidiary’s operations, net of cash flows used to service debt locally and fund non-US acquisitions. We believe that we are able to maintain a sufficient level of liquidity for our domestic operations and commitments without repatriation
of the cash held by these foreign subsidiaries.



Available cash generally excludes settlement related and merchant reserve cash balances. Settlement related cash balances represent funds
that we hold on behalf of our member sponsors when the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the member sponsors’ funding obligation to the merchant. At May 31, 2011, settlement related cash balances and the corresponding
settlement processing obligations were unusually high due to the timing of month end cut off. Merchant reserve cash balances represent funds collected from our merchants that serve as collateral (“Merchant Reserves”) to minimize contingent
liabilities associated with any losses that may occur under the merchant agreement. At May 31, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents included $271.4 million related to Merchant Reserves. While this cash is not restricted in its use, we believe
that







Index to Financial Statements

designating this cash to collateralize Merchant Reserves strengthens our fiduciary standing with our member sponsors and is in accordance with the guidelines set by the card networks. SeeCash
and cash equivalentsandSettlement processing assets and obligationsunder Note 1 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional details.



Operating activities provided cash of $709.8 million during
fiscal year 2011 compared to providing cash of $465.8 million during the prior year. The increase in cash flow from operating activities was primarily due to the change in net settlement processing assets and obligations of $159.0 million. As noted
above, our settlement processing obligations were unusually high at May 31, 2011 due to the timing of month end cut off. SeeSettlement processing assets and obligationsunder Note 1 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements
for additional details.



Net cash used in
investing activities increased $241.8 million to $267.0 million for fiscal 2011. During fiscal year 2011, we used $168.0 million in acquisitions, which included a $165.0 million, net of cash, investment in Comercia. Also, during fiscal year 2011 we
had capital expenditures of $98.5 million which was primarily for terminals, software and infrastructure. During fiscal year 2010 we had $29.5 million of cash investments in Auctionpay (currently known as Greater Giving) and other asset purchases.
Also, during fiscal year 2010 we had capital expenditures of $56.1 million which was primarily for terminals, software and infrastructure. We received net proceeds from the disposition of our money transfer business of $60.2 million (sales proceeds
of $85.0 million less $24.8 million remaining in the business at closing to fund associated settlement obligations) during fiscal year 2010.



In fiscal year 2011, we generated $114.1 million in cash from financing activities compared to $95.8 million cash used in financing
activities in the prior year. The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to increased line of credit borrowings in the Asia Pacific region, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Spain to fund settlement, and borrowings on our
Corporate Credit Facility. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was offset by higher debt repayments in fiscal year 2011. We are not contractually obligated to make repayments on the Corporate Credit Facility within the next twelve
months; however, we intend to make repayments in the near future. SeeLong-Term Debt and Credit Facilitiesbelow for a more detailed discussion of our borrowing activities. In addition, in fiscal year 2011 we repurchased an additional 344,847
shares of our common stock for $14.9 million in cash, $1.9 million of which represents the cash settlement of the $100.0 million purchase executed during fiscal year 2010 (2,382,890 shares of our common stock).



We believe that our current level of cash and borrowing
capacity under our lines of credit described below, together with future cash flows from operations, are sufficient to meet the needs of our existing operations and planned requirements for the foreseeable future. During fiscal year 2012, we expect
capital expenditures to range between $85.0 and $90.0 million.







Index to Financial Statements

Long-Term Debt and Lines of Credit



Outstanding debt consisted of the following:



May 31,2011May 31,2010Lines of credit:(in thousands)Corporate Credit Facility$183,975$—Short-term lines of credit:United Kingdom Credit Facility108,333—Hong Kong Credit Facility73,55463,786Canada Credit Facility18,725—Malaysia Credit Facility17,743—Spain Credit Facility17,646—Singapore Credit Facility17,245—Philippines Credit Facility9,7369,064Maldives Credit Facility3,2022,501Macau Credit Facility2,3721,454Sri Lanka Credit Facility2,1892,382270,74579,187Total lines of credit454,72079,187Notes Payable14,28510,064Term loans155,759411,070Total debt$624,764$500,321Current portion$356,547$227,356Long-term debt268,217272,965Total debt$624,764$500,321



Maturity requirements on term
loans and notes payable are as follows (in thousands):



2012$356,547201377,75820142,72520152,4842016185,250Total$624,764



We had increased borrowings
on our lines of credit at May 31, 2011 to fund settlement as noted above. Our 2012 maturities should be considered with our increased cash balances at May 31, 2011.



Lines of Credit



Our line of credit facilities are used to provide a source
of working capital and for general corporate purposes, while the Corporate Credit Facility is additionally available to fund future strategic acquisitions. Certain of our line of credit facilities allow us to fund merchants for credit and debit card
transactions prior to receipt of corresponding settlement funds from credit and debit card networks. With certain of our credit facilities, the facility nets the amounts pre-funded to merchants against specific cash balances in local Global Payments
accounts, which we characterize as cash and cash equivalents. Therefore, the amounts reported in lines of credit, which represents the amounts pre-funded to merchants, may exceed the stated credit limit, when in fact the combined position is
less than the credit limit. The total available borrowings under our credit facilities at May 31, 2011 were $892.7 million.







Index to Financial Statements

During fiscal 2011 the maximum and average borrowings under our credit facilities were
$565.3 million and $360.3 million, respectively. The weighted average interest rates on these borrowings were 1.9% and 2.2%, respectively. Our maximum borrowed amount was greater than our average and period end borrowings due to the timing of
settlement funding.



Our line of credit facilities
consist of the following:



•Corporate—On December 7, 2010, we entered into a new, unsecured five-year, $600.0 million revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the
Corporate Credit Facility with a syndicate of financial institutions. The multi-currency facility expires in December 2015 and has a variable interest rate based on a market short-term interest rate plus a leverage based margin. In addition, the
Corporate Credit Facility allows us to expand the facility size to $750.0 million by requesting additional commitments from new or existing lenders. The Corporate Credit Facility contains certain financial and non-financial covenants and events of
default customary for financings of this nature.



We plan to use the Corporate Credit Facility to support strategic growth initiatives and for general corporate purposes, and we used approximately $150.0 million of the new facility to pay down existing
term loan debt. As of May 31, 2011, interest rates on the term loan were 1.7% and 2.1%, for United States dollar and British Pound Sterling borrowings, respectively, and the aggregate outstanding balance was $184.0 million. The Corporate
Credit Facility is included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets because we are not contractually obligated to make repayments in the next twelve months. In conjunction with our entry into the Corporate Credit Facility
on December 7, 2010, we terminated our United States Credit Facility, which was due to expire in November 2011.



•United Kingdom—a revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank, for up to £80.0 million to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This credit facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the outstanding facility balance was $108.3 million (£65.9 million) with an interest
rate of 2.0%. This facility is subject to annual review.



•Hong Kong—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Limited Hong Kong, for up to HKD 1.0 billion to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This facility is denominated in Hong Kong dollars and has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest rate on the facility was 0.9%.
This facility is subject to annual review.



•Canada—a revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our Canada Credit Facility, with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, or CIBC. The
Canada Credit Facility is a facility which consists of a line of credit of $25.0 million Canadian dollars. In addition, the Canada Credit Facility allows us to expand the size of the uncommitted facility to $50.0 million Canadian dollars and does
not have a fixed term. This credit facility carries no termination date, but can be terminated by either party with advance notice. This credit facility has card association receivables and CIBC settlement related bank accounts as pledged
collateral. This credit facility has a variable interest rate based on the Canadian dollar Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the outstanding facility balance was $18.7 million ($18.1 million CAD) with an interest rate of
3.3%.



•Malaysia—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad, for up to 90.0 million Malaysian ringgits to fund merchants
prior to receipt of corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest rate on the facility was 3.7%. This facility is subject to
annual review.



•Spain—a revolving credit facility with “la Caixa”, for up to €180.0 million to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This credit facility also allows borrowings in British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, and United States dollars, and has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of
May 31, 2011 the aggregate outstanding facility balance was







Index to Financial Statements

$17.6 million for all currencies (€12.2 million) with a weighted interest rate of 1.2%. The term of the facility is through January 2012, at which time we intend to enter into a new
agreement.



•Singapore—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Banking Corporation Limited, for up to 25.0 million Singapore dollars to fund
merchants prior to receipt of corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest rate on the facility was 0.9%. This facility is
subject to annual review.



•Philippines—a revolving facility with HSBC Bank, Philippines, for up to 350.0 million Pesos and $1.5 million United States dollars
to fund merchants prior to receipt of corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. The facility has variable short term interest rates plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest rates on the facility was 5.0%
for the Pesos tranche and 0.6% for the United States dollars tranche. This facility is subject to annual review.



•Maldives—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Bank, Maldives, for up to $4.0 million to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This facility is denominated in United States dollars and has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest rate on the facility was
4.7%. This facility is subject to annual review.



•Macau—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Asia Pacific, for 40.0 million Macau Pataca to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. In addition, the Macau Credit Facility allows us to expand the size of the uncommitted facility to 150 million Macau Pataca. This credit facility has a variable interest rate based on
the lending rate stipulated by HSBC Asia Pacific, less a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest rate on the facility was 2.5%. This facility is subject to annual review.



•Sri Lanka—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Bank, Sri Lanka, for 650.0 million Sri Lankan Rupees in two tranches: one to fund
merchants prior to receipt of corresponding settlement funds from the card associations and the other for general corporate purposes. The facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest
rate on the two tranches of the facility was 10.1%. This facility is subject to annual review.



•National Bank of Canada—a revolving credit facility for up to $80.0 million Canadian dollars and $5 million United States dollars to provide
certain Canadian merchants with same day value for their Canadian and United States dollar MasterCard credit card transactions and debit card transactions. This credit facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of
May 31, 2011 the facility was undrawn.



Term Loans



We have a five year unsecured $200.0 million term loan agreement with a syndicate of banks in the United States which we used to partially
fund our HSBC Merchant Services LLP acquisition. The term loan bears interest, at our election, at the prime rate or LIBOR, plus a leverage based margin. As of May 31, 2011 and 2010, the interest rate on the term loan was 1.26% and 1.4%,
respectively. The term loan calls for quarterly principal payments of $5.0 million beginning with the quarter ended August 31, 2008 and increasing to $10.0 million beginning with the quarter ended August 31, 2010 and $15.0 million
beginning with the quarter ending August 31, 2011. As of May 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of the term loan was $120.0 million.



We have a $300.0 million term loan agreement ($230.0 million and £43.5 million) with a syndicate of financial institutions. We used
the proceeds of this term loan to pay down our then-existing credit facility which had been used to initially fund the purchase of the remaining 49% interest in the LLP. In December 2010, the entire balance of the United States dollar portion of the
term loan was repaid by a borrowing on the Corporate Credit Facility, and the facility terms were amended. The term loan expires in July 2012 and has a variable interest rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a leverage based
margin. As of May 31, 2011, the interest rate on the remaining British Pound Sterling portion of the term loan was 2.1%. The term loan requires quarterly







Index to Financial Statements

principal payments of £2.2 million beginning with the quarter ended August 31, 2009 and increasing to £3.3 million beginning with the quarter ended August 31,
2010. As of May 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of this term loan was $35.8 million (£21.7 million).



Notes Payable



Our subsidiary in the Russian Federation has notes payable with a total outstanding balance of approximately $14.3 million at May 31, 2011. These notes are used to fund the purchase of ATMs and have
interest rates ranging from 8.0% to 10.0% with maturity dates ranging from June 2011 through May 2016.



Compliance with Covenants



There are certain financial and non-financial covenants contained in our various credit facilities and term loans. Our term loan agreements include financial covenants requiring a leverage ratio no
greater than 3.25 to 1.00 and a fixed charge coverage ratio no less than 2.50 to 1.00. We complied with these covenants as of May 31, 2011.



Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest



We have a redeemable noncontrolling interest associated with our Asia-Pacific merchant services business channel. Global Payments
Asia-Pacific, Limited, or GPAP, is the entity through which we conduct our merchant acquiring business in the Asia-Pacific region. We own 56% of GPAP and HSBC Asia Pacific owns the remaining 44%. The GPAP shareholders agreement includes
provisions pursuant to which HSBC Asia Pacific may compel us to purchase, at the lesser of fair value or a net revenue multiple, additional GPAP shares from HSBC Asia Pacific (the “Put Option”). HSBC Asia Pacific may exercise the Put
Option on the fifth anniversary of the closing of the acquisition (July 24, 2011) and on each anniversary thereafter. By exercising the Put Option, HSBC Asia Pacific can require us to purchase, on an annual basis, up to 15% of the total issued
shares of GPAP. HSBC Asia Pacific did not exercise the Put Option as of July 24, 2011. We estimate the maximum total redemption amount of the redeemable noncontrolling interest under the Put Option would be $133.9 million as of
May 31, 2011, $45.6 million of which was puttable to us on July 24, 2011. We have adjusted our redeemable noncontrolling interest to reflect the maximum redemption amount as of May 31, 2011 on our consolidated balance sheet.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



We have not entered into any transactions with
unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interest, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or other obligations under a
variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides us with financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk support other than the guarantee products described under “Critical Accounting Estimates” below.



BIN/ICA Agreements



In connection with our acquisition of merchant credit card
operations of banks, we have entered into sponsorship or depository and processing agreements with certain of the banks. These agreements allow us to use the banks’ identification numbers, referred to as Bank Identification Number for Visa
transactions and Interbank Card Association number for MasterCard transactions, to clear credit card transactions through Visa and MasterCard. Certain of such agreements contain financial covenants, and we were in compliance with all such covenants
as of May 31, 2011.







Index to Financial Statements

Commitments and Contractual Obligations



The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of May 31, 2011:



Payments Due by Future PeriodTotalLess than 1Year1-3 Years3-5 Years5+ Years(in thousands)Operating leases (Note 13)$60,727$7,802$14,201$11,966$26,758Long-term debt including current portion (Note 6)624,764356,54780,483187,734—Interest on long-term debt (1)5,4443,1561,925363—



(1)Interest on variable rate debt is based on rates effective as of May 31, 2011.



Note:This table excludes other obligations that we may have, such as employee benefit plan obligations, unrecognized tax benefits, and other current and long—term
liabilities reflected in our consolidated balance sheet and the redeemable noncontrolling interest put option rights described above. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of these payments; therefore such
amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table. We do not have any material purchase commitments as of May 31, 2011.



Critical Accounting Estimates



In applying the accounting policies that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements, we necessarily make accounting estimates
that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Some of these accounting estimates require us to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time we make the accounting estimates. We base these
assumptions and the resulting estimates on historical information and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these assumptions and estimates on an ongoing basis. In many instances, however, we
reasonably could have used different accounting estimates and, in other instances, changes in our accounting estimates could occur from period to period, with the result in each case being a material change in the financial statement presentation of
our financial condition or results of operations. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as “critical accounting estimates.” The critical accounting estimates that we discuss below are those that we believe are most important to an
understanding of our consolidated financial statements.



Accounting estimates necessarily require subjective determinations about future events and conditions. Therefore, the following descriptions of critical accounting estimates are forward-looking
statements, and actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated by these forward-looking statements. You should read the following in conjunction with Note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and the risk factors
contained in “Item 1A—Risk Factors” of this annual report.



Reserve for operating losses



As a part of our direct merchant credit card and debit card processing services and check guarantee services in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, Asia-Pacific and the Russian
Federation we experience merchant losses and check guarantee losses, which we collectively refer to as “operating losses.” Merchant losses occur when we are unable to collect amounts from merchant customers for any charges properly
reversed by the cardholder. Check guarantee losses occur when we are unable to collect the full amount of a guaranteed check from the checkwriter. Please refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements for a further explanation of these
operating losses.



We process credit card
transactions for direct merchants and recognize revenue based on a percentage of the gross amount charged. Our direct merchant customers have the liability for any charges properly reversed by the cardholder. In the event, however, that we are not
able to collect such amount from the merchants, due to







Index to Financial Statements

merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such reversed charges. We require cash deposits, guarantees, letters of credit and other types of collateral
by certain merchants to minimize any such contingent liability, and we also utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage merchant risk. We have, however, historically experienced losses due to merchant defaults.





In our check guarantee service offering, we charge our merchants a percentage of the gross amount of the check and guarantee payment of
the check to the merchant in the event the check is not honored by the checkwriter’s bank. We have the right to collect the full amount of the check from the checkwriter but have not historically recovered 100% of the guaranteed checks.





We derive our projected loss rate assumptions primarily based on a rolling six to twelve month analysis of historic loss activity. These assumptions, however, bear the risk of change, which may occur as a
result of several







Index to Financial Statements

qualitative factors. For merchant losses, these factors include the following: a change in the creditworthiness of our merchant customers; a change in the levels of credit card fraud affecting
our merchant customers; and a change in the effectiveness of our internal credit, risk management, and collection departments. For check guarantee losses, these factors include a change in the levels of dishonored consumer checks presented to our
guarantee service merchant customers and a change in the effectiveness of our internal check guarantee procedures, customer acceptance and retention policies, or collection protocols. Application of our percentage assumptions involve uncertainty
regarding changes in any of the factors above, especially those that are outside of our control, such as the financial health of the United States, Canadian, the United Kingdom, Spain, Asia-Pacific, and the Russian Federation economies at a regional
or national level and the related impact on our customers.



Goodwill and long-lived asset valuations



We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying amounts of goodwill, property and
equipment, and other intangible assets may warrant revision or may not be recoverable. Goodwill and other indefinite-life intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually by applying a fair value based test. Property and equipment and
finite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment when facts and circumstances indicate the carrying value of such assets may exceed their fair values. When factors indicate that these assets should be evaluated for possible impairment, we
assess the potential impairment of their carrying values by determining whether the carrying value of such long-lived assets will be recovered through the future undiscounted cash flows expected from use of the asset and its eventual disposition.



We completed our most recent annual goodwill and
indefinite-life intangible asset impairment test as of January 1, 2011. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, and the impairment test consists of two steps. In the first step the reporting unit’s carrying amount,
including goodwill, is compared to its fair value which is measured based upon, among other factors, a discounted cash flow analysis as well as market multiples for comparable companies. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is greater than
its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and step two must be performed. Step two measures the impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of
goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all the assets and liabilities of that unit (including unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. The excess of fair
value over the amounts allocated to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit is the implied fair value of goodwill. The excess of the carrying amount over the implied fair value is the impairment loss.



We have six reporting units: North America Merchant Services,
UK Merchant Services, Asia Pacific Merchant Services, Central and Eastern Europe Merchant Services, Russia Merchant Services and Spain Merchant Services. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of the income approach
and the market approach. The income approach utilizes a discounted cash flow model incorporating management’s expectations for future revenue, operating expenses, EBITDA, capital expenditures and an anticipated tax rate. We discount the related
cash flow forecasts using our estimated weighted-average cost of capital for each reporting unit at the date of valuation. The market approach utilizes comparative market multiples in the valuation estimate. Multiples are derived by relating the
value of guideline companies, based on either the market price of publicly traded shares or the prices of companies being acquired in the marketplace, to various measures of their earnings and cash flow. Such multiples are then applied to the
historical and projected earnings and cash flow of the reporting unit in developing the valuation estimate.



Preparation of forecasts and the selection of the discount rates involve significant judgments about expected future business performance
and general market conditions. Significant changes in our forecasts, the discount rates selected or the weighting of the income and market approach could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a
goodwill impairment charge in a future period.



At
May 31, 2011 we had goodwill of $779.6 million recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. We completed our most recent annual goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment test on January 1,







Index to Financial Statements

2011 and determined that the fair value of each of our reporting units is substantially in excess of the carrying value. No events or changes in circumstances have occurred since the date of our
most recent annual impairment test that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.



Other intangible assets primarily represent customer-related intangible assets (such as customer lists and merchant contracts),
contract-based intangible assets (such as non-compete agreements, referral agreements and processing rights), and trademarks associated with acquisitions. Customer-related intangible assets, contract-based intangible assets and certain trademarks
are amortized over their estimated useful lives of up to 30 years. The useful lives for customer-related intangible assets are determined based primarily on forecasted cash flows, which include estimates for the revenues, expenses, and customer
attrition associated with the assets. The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreements. The useful lives of amortizable trademarks are based on our plans to phase out the trademarks in the applicable
markets.



We use the accelerated method of
amortization for most of our customer related intangible assets. In determining amortization expense under our accelerated method for any given period, we calculate the expected cash flows for that period that were used in determining the acquired
value of the asset and divide that amount by the expected total cash flows over the estimated life of the asset. We multiply that percentage by the initial carrying value of the asset to arrive at the amortization expense for that
period. In addition, if the cash flow patterns that we experience are less favorable than our initial estimates, we will adjust the amortization schedule accordingly. These cash flow patterns are derived using certain assumptions and cost
allocations due to a significant amount of asset interdependencies that exist in our business. During fiscal 2011, we did not adjust the amortization schedules.



We believe that our accelerated method better approximates the distribution of cash flows generated by our acquired customer
relationships. We use the straight-line method of amortization for our contract-based intangibles and amortizable trademarks.



Capitalization of Internally Developed Software



We develop software that is used in providing processing
services to customers. Capitalization of internally developed software, primarily associated with operating platforms, occurs when we have completed the preliminary project stage, management authorizes the project, management commits to funding the
project, it is probable the project will be completed and the project will be used to perform the function intended. The preliminary project stage consists of the conceptual formulation of alternatives, the evaluation of alternatives, the
determination of existence of needed technology and the final selection of alternatives. Costs incurred prior to the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred. Currently unforeseen circumstances in software development could require us to
implement alternative plans with respect to a particular effort, which could result in the impairment of previously capitalized software development costs. Costs capitalized during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 totaled $26.3 million, $17.6 million and
$11.8 million, respectively. Internally developed software has an amortization period of 5 to 10 years. Internally developed software assets are placed into service when they are ready for their intended use.



During fiscal 2010, we placed into service $54.9 million of
hardware and software associated with our technology processing platform, referred to as G2. This platform is planned to be a new front-end operating environment for our merchant processing, and is intended to replace a number of legacy platforms.
Depreciation and amortization associated with these costs is calculated based on transactions expected to be processed over the life of the platform. We believe that this method is more representative of the platform’s use than the
straight-line method. We are currently processing transactions on our G2 platform in seven markets in our Asia-Pacific region. As these markets represent a small percentage of our overall transactions, depreciation and amortization related to our G2
platform for fiscal 2011 was not significant. Depreciation and amortization expense will increase as we complete migrations of other markets to the G2 platform. We did not place any hardware or software costs associated with G2 into service during
fiscal 2011.







Index to Financial Statements

Income Taxes



The determination of our provision for income taxes requires
management’s judgment in the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We believe our tax return positions are
fully supportable; however, we establish liabilities for material tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. Issues raised by a tax authority may be
finally resolved at an amount different than the related liability. When facts and circumstances change (including a resolution of an issue or statute of limitations expiration), these liabilities are adjusted through the provision for income taxes
in the period of change.



Judgment will be
required to determine whether or not some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. To the extent we determine that we will not realize the benefit of some or all of our deferred tax assets, then these deferred tax assets will
be adjusted through our provision for income taxes in the period in which this determination is made. At May 31, 2011 our consolidated balance sheet includes net deferred tax assets associated with our United Kingdom business of $100.6 million.
Our assessment of the recoverability of these deferred tax assets is based, in part, on our projections of future business performance and viable tax planning strategies. If future business performance fails to meet projections, we may determine
that some or all of these deferred tax assets will not be realized. In the event of such a determination, we would record a valuation allowance for the amount deemed unrecoverable with a corresponding charge to the provision for income taxes.



New Accounting Pronouncements



In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued ASU 2011-05, “Presentation of Comprehensive Income”(“ASU 2011-05”). In accordance with ASU 2011-05, an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net
income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income
along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other
comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. ASU 2011-05 does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to
net income. ASU 2011-05 is effective retrospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. This standard will become effective for us beginning June 2012 and we are currently evaluating the
impact on our consolidated financial statements.



In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, “Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S.
GAAP and IFRS”(“ASU 2011-04”). The amendments in ASU 2011-04 result in common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. Consequently, ASU 2011-04 changes the wording used to describe many of the
requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. For many of the requirements, the FASB does not intend for the amendments in ASU 2011-04 to result in a change in the application of the
requirements in Topic 820. ASU 2011-04 is effective prospectively for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This ASU will become effective for us beginning March 2012 and we do not expect an impact on our
consolidated financial statements.



In December
2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29, “Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations”(“ASU 2010-29”). ASU 2010-29 amends and clarifies the acquisition date to be used for reporting pro forma
financial disclosures when comparative financial statements are presented. In addition, it requires a description of the nature of and amount of any material, non-recurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination. ASU
2010-29 is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting







Index to Financial Statements

period beginning on or after December 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. The standard will become effective for us beginning in June 2011 and will not have an impact on our financial
position or results of operations as it only amends required disclosures.



In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-28, “When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts”(“ASU
2010-28”). ASU 2010-28 modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more
likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may
exist. The qualitative factors are consistent with existing guidance which requires that goodwill of a reporting unit be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not
reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. This ASU is effective for us beginning June 1, 2011. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have an impact on our financial position or results of operations
because none of our reporting units have zero or negative carrying amounts.



In July 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-20, “Receivables—Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses” (“ASU 2010-20”). ASU
2010-20amends Accounting Standards Codification Topic 310 to improve the disclosures that an entity provides about the credit quality of its financing receivables and the related allowance for credit losses. As a result of these amendments, an
entity is required to disaggregate by portfolio segment or class certain existing disclosures and provide new disclosures about its financing receivables and related allowance for credit losses. ASU 2010-20 was effective for us beginning with the
quarter ended February 28, 2011. The impact of ASU 2010-20 on our disclosures is reflected in notes to the audited consolidated financial statements.







Index to Financial Statements

ITEM 7A—QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK



Foreign Currency Risk



Although the majority of our operations are conducted in
United States dollars, a significant amount of our operations are conducted in foreign currencies. Consequently, our revenues and income generated in currencies other than the United States dollar are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates. For fiscal 2011, currency rate fluctuations increased our revenues by $19.2 million and our diluted earnings per share by $0.08. To calculate this we converted our fiscal 2011 actual revenues using average exchange rates for fiscal
2010.



Generally, the functional currency of our
various subsidiaries is their local currency. As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations on transactions which are not denominated in the functional currency. Gains and losses on such transactions are included in determining net income for
the period. We seek to mitigate our foreign currency risk through timely settlement of transactions and cash flow matching, when possible. For the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 our transaction gains and losses were insignificant.



Additionally, we are affected by currency
fluctuations in our funds settlement process on merchant payment, chargeback, and card network settlement transactions which are not denominated in the currency of the underlying credit or debit card transaction. Gains and losses on these
transactions are included in revenue for the period.



We are also impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates on our investment in foreign operations, as well as assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the
subsidiary. Relative to our net investment in foreign operations, the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is a foreign currency are translated at the period-end rate of exchange. The resulting translation adjustment is
recorded as a component of other comprehensive income and is included in shareholders’ equity. Translation gains and losses on intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature are also recorded as a component of other comprehensive
income. Our assets and liabilities denominated in a non-functional currency are translated at the period-end rate of exchange, with the resulting impact included in net income.



Interest Rate Risk



We are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest
rates on our cash investments and debt. We invest our excess cash in securities that we believe are highly liquid and marketable in the short term. These investments earn a floating rate of interest, and are not held for trading or other speculative
purposes.



We have various lines of credit and
term loans that we use to fund settlement in certain of our markets and for general corporate purposes and acquisitions. Interest rates on these lines of credit are based on market rates and fluctuate accordingly. As of May 31, 2011 there was
$624.8 million outstanding on these lines of credit and term loans.



In certain of our credit card transaction processing markets, the Member uses its own funds to fund merchant settlement and charges us cost of funds. Cost of funds are charged at prevailing market rates
and fluctuate accordingly.



Our cash investments
and debt are floating rate, and therefore do not carry material risk of change in fair value. Our interest rate exposure related to a change in interest rates on net income is mitigated as an increase in rates increases both interest income and
interest expense, and a reduction in rates reduces both interest income and interest expense.



Under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes and believe the market risk arising from cash investments and debt to be minimal.







Index to Financial Statements

A 1% increase in interest rates as of May 31, 2011 would not have had a material
adverse impact on our current or future consolidated net income or cash flows.



Derivative Financial Instruments



Historically, we have not entered into derivative financial instruments to mitigate interest rate fluctuation risk or foreign currency exchange rate risk. We may use derivative financial instruments in
the future if we deem it useful in mitigating our exposure to interest rate or foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.







Index to Financial Statements

ITEM 8—FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Global Payments Inc.:



We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Global Payments Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of
May 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements
and financial statement schedule based on our audits.



We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.



In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Global Payments Inc. and subsidiaries as of May 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
May 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.



As discussed at Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted new accounting provisions regarding noncontrolling interests effective June 1, 2009 and retrospectively adjusted
the consolidated financial statements for the year ended May 31, 2009.



We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of May 31,
2011, based on the criteria established inInternal Control—Integrated Frameworkissued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated July 25, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.



/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP



Atlanta, Georgia

July 25, 2011







Index to Financial Statements

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Global Payments Inc.:



We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Global Payments Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of
May 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Comercia Global Payments Entidad de Pago, S.L. which was acquired on December 20, 2010 and whose financial statements constitute
11% of total assets and 2% of revenues of the Company’s consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended May 31, 2011. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Comercia
Global Payments Entidad de Pago, S.L. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included
in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.



We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.



A company’s internal control over financial reporting is
a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other
personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets
that could have a material effect on the financial statements.



Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or
fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.



In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of May 31,
2011, based on the criteria established inInternal Control—Integrated Frameworkissued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.



We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year







Index to Financial Statements

ended May 31, 2011 of the Company and our report dated July 25, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule and
includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the adoption of new accounting provisions regarding noncontrolling interests.



/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP



Atlanta, Georgia

July 25, 2011







Index to Financial Statements

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



(in thousands, except per share data)





Year Ended May 31,


Revenues$1,859,802$1,642,468$1,462,306

Operating expenses:

Cost of service665,017584,609504,855

Sales, general and administrative863,191734,580664,905



1,528,2081,319,1891,169,760



Operating income331,594323,279292,546



Other income (expense):

Interest and other income10,7744,6297,005

Interest and other expense(18,161)(17,519)(7,282)



(7,387)(12,890)(277)



Income from continuing operations before income taxes324,207310,389292,269

Provision for income taxes(95,076)(87,379)(85,252)



Income from continuing operations, net of tax229,131223,010207,017

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax(975)(3,901)(132,839)



Net income including noncontrolling interests228,156219,10974,178

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests(18,918)(15,792)(36,961)



Net income attributable to Global Payments$209,238$203,317$37,217



Amounts attributable to Global Payments:

Income from continuing operations, net of tax$210,213$207,218$170,056

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax(975)(3,901)(132,839)



Net income attributable to Global Payments$209,238$203,317$37,217



Basic earnings per share attributable to Global Payments:

Income from continuing operations$2.63$2.56$2.12

Loss from discontinued operations(0.01)(0.05)(1.66)



Net income attributable to Global Payments$2.62$2.51$0.46



Diluted earnings per share attributable to Global Payments:

Income from continuing operations$2.61$2.52$2.10

Loss from discontinued operations(0.01)(0.04)(1.64)



Net income attributable to Global Payments$2.60$2.48$0.46



Dividends per share$0.08$0.08$0.08





See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.







Index to Financial Statements

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(in thousands, except share data)





May 31,2011May 31,2010

ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents$1,354,285$769,946

Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $472 and $269, respectively166,540131,817

Claims receivable, net of allowances for losses of $3,870 and $4,208, respectively914664

Settlement processing assets280,35913,741

Inventory7,6409,740

Deferred income taxes2,9462,752

Prepaid expenses and other current assets35,29139,604



Total current assets1,847,975968,264

Goodwill779,637569,090

Other intangible assets341,500205,110

Property and equipment256,301183,938

Deferred income taxes104,14090,470

Other20,97822,454



Total assets$3,350,531$2,039,326



LIABILITIES AND EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Lines of credit$270,745$79,187

Current portion of long-term debt85,802148,169

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities241,578173,575

Settlement processing obligations838,565265,110

Income taxes payable7,6746,430



Total current liabilities1,444,364672,471

Long-term debt268,217272,965

Deferred income taxes116,43288,265

Other long-term liabilities49,84331,436



Total liabilities1,878,8561,065,137



Commitments and contingencies (See Note 13)

Redeemable noncontrolling interest133,858102,672

Equity:

Preferred stock, no par value; 5,000,000 shares authorized and none issued——

Common stock, no par value; 200,000,000 shares authorized; 83,062,518 issued and 80,334,781 outstanding at May 31, 2011 and
82,028,945 issued and 79,646,055 and outstanding at May 31, 2010——

Paid-in capital502,993460,747

Retained earnings715,202544,772

Treasury stock; 2,727,737 and 2,382,890 shares at May 31, 2011 and May 31, 2010, respectively(112,980)(100,000)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)79,320(44,255)



Total Global Payments shareholders’ equity1,184,535861,264

Noncontrolling interest153,28210,253



Total equity1,337,817871,517



Total liabilities and equity$3,350,531$2,039,326





See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.







Index to Financial Statements

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(in thousands)





Year Ended May 31,


Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income including noncontrolling interests$228,156$219,109$74,178

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment40,54535,86435,434

Amortization of acquired intangibles41,69232,80330,854

Provision for operating losses and bad debts20,57725,02525,595

Share-based compensation expense15,88518,07214,570

Loss on disposal of discontinued operations, non-cash60224,310—

Impairment, restructuring and other charges, non-cash——147,664

Deferred income taxes19,1542,7225,457

Other, net(3,576)2,4434,036

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of the effects of acquisitions:

Accounts receivable(34,723)(11,689)(25,077)

Claims receivable(14,425)(14,936)(17,201)

Settlement processing assets and obligations, net299,895140,96260,700

Inventory1,979(4,727)(1,653)

Prepaid expenses and other assets3,537(13,710)4,438

Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities89,23018,80323,251

Payables to money transfer beneficiaries—(6,107)3,067

Income taxes payable1,244(3,183)(2,342)



Net cash provided by operating activities709,772465,761382,971



Cash flows from investing activities:

Business and intangible asset acquisitions, net of cash acquired(167,968)(29,513)(525,205)

Disposition of business, net of cash(2,577)60,231—

Capital expenditures(98,537)(56,054)(40,940)

Net decrease (increase) in financing receivables2,062(179)—

Proceeds from sale of investment and contractual rights, net—3116,888



Net cash used in investing activities(267,020)(25,204)(559,257)



Cash flows from financing activities:

Net borrowings on lines of credit191,55869,0138,647

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt205,298305,744200,000

Principal payments under issuance of long-term debt(280,198)(75,205)(16,734)

Acquisition of redeemable noncontrolling interest—(307,675)—

Proceeds from stock issued under employee stock plans18,36430,2489,050

Repurchase of common stock(14,900)(98,080)—

Tax benefit from employee share-based compensation9,1417,186880

Contribution from noncontrolling interest holder——358

Distributions to noncontrolling interest(8,752)(20,484)(34,299)

Dividends paid(6,388)(6,497)(6,417)



Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities114,123(95,750)161,485



Effect of exchange rate changes on cash27,464(1,796)(14,324)



Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents584,339343,011(29,125)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year769,946426,935456,060



Cash and cash equivalents, end of year$1,354,285$769,946$426,935





See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.







Index to Financial Statements

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY



(in thousands, except per share data)



Accumulated
OtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)NumberofSharesPaid-inCapitalTreasuryStockRetainedEarningsCurrencyTranslationAdjustmentsMinimumPensionLiabilityTotal GlobalPaymentsShareholders’EquityNoncontrollingInterestTotalEquityBalance at May 31, 201079,646$460,747$(100,000)$544,772$(41,306)$(2,949)$861,264$10,253$871,517Comprehensive income:Net income including noncontrolling interests209,238209,2389,326218,564Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $88110110110Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax of $(5,366)123,465123,4659,717133,182Total comprehensive income332,81319,043351,856Stock issued under employee stock plans, net1,03418,36418,36418,364Tax benefit from employee share-based compensation, net7,9977,9977,997Share-based compensation expense15,88515,88515,885Noncontrolling interests in business acquisitions132,738132,738Distributions to noncontrolling interest(8,752)(8,752)Redeemable noncontrolling interest valuation adjustment(32,420)(32,420)(32,420)Repurchase of common stock(345)(12,980)(12,980)(12,980)Dividends paid ($0.08 per share)(6,388)(6,388)(6,388)Balance at May 31, 201180,335$502,993$(112,980)715,202$82,159$(2,839)$1,184,535$153,282$1,337,817



See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.







Index to Financial Statements

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(in thousands, except per share data)



Accumulated 
OtherComprehensiveIncome/(Loss)Number ofSharesPaid-inCapitalTreasuryStockRetainedEarningsCurrencyTranslationAdjustmentsMinimumPensionLiabilityTotal GlobalPaymentsShareholders’EquityNoncontrollingInterestTotalShareholders’EquityBalance at May 31, 200980,445$405,241$273,090$(8,987)$(1,914)$667,430$10,813$678,243Comprehensive income (loss):Net income including noncontrolling interests203,317203,3178,029211,346Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $(584)(1,035)(1,035)(1,035)Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax of $555(32,319)(32,319)(32,319)Total comprehensive income169,9638,029177,992Stock issued under employee stock plans1,57430,24830,24830,248Tax benefit from employee share-based compensation7,1867,1867,186Share-based compensation expense18,07218,07218,072Distributions to noncontrolling interest(8,589)(8,589)Deferred tax asset arising from acquisition of noncontrolling interest89,96589,96589,965Redeemable noncontrolling interests valuation adjustment(15,103)(15,103)(15,103)Repurchase of common stock(2,383)(100,000)(100,000)(100,000)Dividends paid ($0.08 per share)(6,497)(6,497)(6,497)Balance at May 31, 201079,646$460,747(100,000)$544,772$(41,306)$(2,949)$861,264$10,253$871,517



See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements







Index to Financial Statements

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(in thousands, except per share data)



Accumulated 
OtherComprehensiveIncome/(Loss)Number ofSharesPaid-inCapitalRetainedEarningsCurrencyTranslationAdjustmentsMinimumPensionLiabilityTotal GlobalPaymentsShareholders’EquityNoncontrollingInterestTotalShareholders’EquityBalance at May 31, 200879,637$380,741$537,357$124,673$(471)$1,042,300$11,852$1,054,152Comprehensive income (loss):Net income including noncontrolling interests37,21737,2177,47144,688Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $(832)(1,443)(1,443)(1,443)Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax of $2,428(133,660)(133,660)(133,660)Total comprehensive (loss) income(97,886)7,471(90,415)Stock issued under employee stock plans8089,0509,0509,050Tax benefit from employee share-based compensation880880880Share-based compensation expense14,57014,57014,570Distributions to noncontrolling interest(8,353)(8,353)Divestiture of noncontrolling interest(157)(157)Application of noncontrolling interest accounting guidance related to acquisitions(417,006)(417,006)(417,006)Redeemable noncontrolling interests valuation adjustment121,939121,939121,939Dividends paid ($0.08 per share)(6,417)(6,417)(6,417)Balance at May 31, 200980,445$405,241$273,090$(8,987)$(1,914)$667,430$10,813$678,243



See Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



NOTE 1—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES



Business, Consolidation and
Presentation—Global Payments Inc. is a high-volume processor of electronic transactions for merchants, multinational corporations, financial institutions, consumers, government agencies and other business and non-profit business
enterprises to facilitate payments to purchase goods and services or further other economic goals. Our role is to serve as an intermediary in the exchange of information and funds that must occur between parties so that a transaction can be
completed. We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in September 2000 and we spun-off from our former parent company on January 31, 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in business since
1967. Our fiscal year ends on May 31, thus we refer to the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 as fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.



These consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our majority-owned subsidiaries and all intercompany balances
and transactions have been eliminated. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and present our financial position,
results of operations, and cash flows. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.



As a result of our disposition of our money transfer businesses in fiscal year 2010, this segment has been accounted for as a discontinued
operation. Please see Note 3—Discontinued Operations for further information.



Use of estimates—The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make certain estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.



Revenue recognition—Our two merchant services segments primarily include processing solutions for credit cards, debit cards, and check-related services. Revenue is recognized as such
services are performed. Revenue for processing services provided directly to merchants is recorded net of interchange fees charged by card issuing banks. We use two basic business models to market our merchant services offerings. One model, referred
to as “direct” merchant services, features a salaried and commissioned sales force, independent sales organizations (“ISOs”), and independent sales representatives, all of whom sell our end-to-end services directly to merchants.
The other model, referred to as “indirect” merchant services, provides similar basic products and services as our direct model, primarily to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs on an unbundled basis, that in turn resell our
products and services to their clients. The primary difference between the models is under the “indirect” model we do not provide bank partner sponsorship services for acquired transactions. Direct merchant services revenue is generated on
services generally priced as a percentage of transaction value, whereas indirect merchant services revenue is generated on services primarily priced on a specified amount per transaction or per service rendered. In both merchant services models, we
also charge other fees unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value.



Cash and cash equivalents—Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and all liquid investments with an initial maturity of three months or less when purchased. These amounts also
include cash that we hold related to reserve funds collected from our merchants that serve as collateral (“Merchant Reserves”) to minimize contingent liabilities associated with any losses that may occur under the merchant agreement. We
record a corresponding liability in settlement processing assets and settlement processing obligations in our consolidated balance sheet. While this cash is not restricted in its use, we believe that designating this cash to collateralize Merchant
Reserves strengthens our fiduciary standing with our member sponsors and is in accordance with guidelines set by the card networks. As of May 31, 2011 and 2010, our cash and cash equivalents included $271.4 million and $199.4 million,
respectively, related to Merchant Reserves.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



Our cash and cash equivalents include settlement related cash balances. Settlement
related cash balances represent surplus funds that we hold on behalf of our member sponsors when the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the member sponsors’ funding obligation to the merchant. At May 31, 2011, settlement
related cash balances and the corresponding settlement processing obligations were unusually high due to the timing of month end cut off. Settlement related cash balances are not restricted; however, these funds are generally paid out in
satisfaction of settlement processing obligations the following day. Please seeSettlement processing assets and obligationsbelow for further information.



Inventory—Inventory, which includes
electronic point of sale terminals, automated teller machines, and related peripheral equipment, is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by using the average cost method.



Settlement processing assets and obligations—We are designated as a Merchant Service
Provider by MasterCard and an Independent Sales Organization by Visa. These designations are dependent upon member clearing banks (“Member”) sponsoring us and our adherence to the standards of the networks. We have five primary financial
institution sponsors in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Asia-Pacific region and the Russian Federation with whom we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements. These agreements allow us to route transactions
under the member banks’ control and identification numbers to clear credit card transactions through Visa and MasterCard. Visa and MasterCard set the standards with which we must comply. Certain of the member financial institutions of Visa and
MasterCard are our competitors. In certain markets, we are members in various payment networks, allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party sponsorship.



We also provide credit card transaction processing for
Discover Financial Services or Discover Card (“Discover”) and are designated as an acquirer by Discover. Our agreement with Discover allows us to acquire, process and fund transactions directly through Discover’s network without the
need of a financial institution sponsor. Otherwise, we process Discover transactions similarly to how we process MasterCard and Visa transactions. Discover publishes acquirer operating regulations, with which we must comply. We use our Members to
assist in funding merchants for Discover transactions.



Funds settlement refers to the process of transferring funds for sales and credits between card issuers and merchants. Depending on the type of transaction, either the credit card interchange system or
the debit network is used to transfer the information and funds between the Member and card issuer to complete the link between merchants and card issuers.



For transactions processed on our systems, we use our internal network telecommunication infrastructure to provide funding instructions to
the Members who in turn fund the merchants. In certain of our markets, merchant funding primarily occurs after the Member receives the funds from the card issuer through the card networks creating a net settlement obligation on our balance sheet. In
our other markets, the Member funds the merchants before the Member receives the net settlement funds from the card networks, creating a net settlement asset on our balance sheet. In certain markets in the Asia-Pacific region, the Member provides
the payment processing operations and related support services on our behalf under a transition services agreement. In such instances, we do not reflect the related settlement processing assets and obligations in our consolidated balance sheet. The
Member will continue to provide these operations and services until the integration to our platform is completed. After our integration, the Member will continue to provide funds settlement services similar to the functions performed by our Members
in other markets at which point the related settlement assets and obligations will be reflected in our consolidated balance sheet.



Timing differences, interchange expense, Merchant Reserves and exception items cause differences between the amount the Member receives
from the card networks and the amount funded to the merchants. The standards







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the
merchant is funded. However, in practice and in accordance with the terms of our sponsorship agreements with our Members, we generally follow a net settlement process whereby, if the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the Member’s
funding obligation to the merchant, we temporarily hold the surplus on behalf of the Member in our account at the Member bank and record a corresponding liability. Conversely, if the Member’s funding obligation to the merchant precedes the
incoming amount from the card networks, the amount of the Member’s net receivable position is either subsequently advanced to the Member by us or the Member satisfies this obligation with its own funds. If the Member uses its own funds, the
Member assesses a funding cost, which is included in interest and other expense on the accompanying consolidated statements of income. Each participant in the transaction process receives compensation for its services.



Reserve for operating losses



A summary of these amounts as of May 31, 2011 and 2010
is as follows:



20112010(in thousands)Settlement processing assets:Interchange reimbursement$72,022$19Receivable from Members142,11712,258Receivable from networks124,980—Exception items4,4561,748Merchant Reserves(63,216)(284)Total$280,359$13,741Settlement processing obligations:Interchange reimbursement$212,069$194,341Liability to Members(718,650)(259,947)Liability to merchants(129,806)—Exception items12,3946,254Merchant Reserves(208,195)(199,077)Fair value of guarantees of customer chargebacks(3,102)(5,810)Reserves for sales allowances(3,275)(871)Total$(838,565)$(265,110)







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



Reserve for operating losses—As a part of our merchant credit and
debit card processing and check guarantee services, we experience merchant losses and check guarantee losses, which are collectively referred to as “operating losses.”



Our credit card processing merchant customers are liable for
any charges or losses that occur under the merchant agreement. In the event, however, that we are not able to collect such amount from the merchants, due to merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other merchant-related reason, we may be
liable for any such losses based on our merchant agreement. We require cash deposits, guarantees, letters of credit, and other types of collateral by certain merchants to minimize any such contingent liability. We also utilize a number of systems
and procedures to manage merchant risk. We have, however, historically experienced losses due to merchant defaults.



We account for our potential liability for the full amount of the operating losses discussed above as guarantees. We estimate the fair
value of these guarantees by adding a fair value margin to our estimate of losses. This estimate of losses is comprised of estimated incurred losses and a projection of future losses. Estimated incurred loss accruals are recorded when it is probable
that we have incurred a loss and the loss is reasonably estimable. These losses typically result from chargebacks related to merchant bankruptcies, closures, or fraud. Estimated incurred losses are calculated at the merchant level based on
chargebacks received to date, processed volume, and historical chargeback ratios. The estimate is reduced for any collateral that we hold. Accruals for estimated incurred losses are evaluated periodically and adjusted as appropriate based on actual
loss experience. Our projection of future losses is based on an assumed percentage of our direct merchant credit card and signature debit card sales volumes processed, or processed volume. Historically, this estimation process has been materially
accurate.



As of May 31, 2011 and 2010, $3.1
million and $5.8 million, respectively, have been recorded to reflect the fair value of guarantees associated with merchant card processing. These amounts are included in settlement processing obligations in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets. The expense associated with the fair value of the guarantees of customer chargebacks is included in cost of service in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. For the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we recorded
such expenses in the amounts of $6.0 million, $9.6 million, and $7.1 million, respectively.



In our check guarantee service offering, we charge our merchants a percentage of the gross amount of the check and guarantee payment of the check to the merchant in the event the check is not honored by
the checkwriter’s bank in accordance with the merchant’s agreement with us. The fair value of the check guarantee is equal to the fee charged for the guarantee service, and we defer this fee revenue until the guarantee is satisfied. We
have the right to collect the full amount of the check from the checkwriter but have not historically recovered 100% of the guaranteed checks. Our check guarantee loss reserve is based on historical return and collection (recovery) experiences. As
of May 31, 2011 and 2010, we have a check guarantee loss reserve of $3.9 million and $4.2 million, respectively, which is included in net claims receivable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Expenses of $14.2 million, $14.9
million, and $17.9 million were recorded for the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for these losses and are included in cost of service in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. The estimated check returns and
recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned and recovered in the future may differ significantly from estimates used in calculating the receivable valuation allowance.



As the potential for merchants’ failure to settle
individual reversed charges from consumers in our merchant credit card processing offering and the timing of individual checks clearing the checkwriters’ banks in our check guarantee offering are not predictable, it is not practicable to
calculate the maximum amounts for which we could







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



be liable under the guarantees issued under the merchant card processing and check guarantee service offerings. It is not practicable to estimate the extent to which merchant collateral or
subsequent collections of dishonored checks, respectively, would offset these exposures due to these same uncertainties.



Property and equipment—Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization are calculated using
the straight-line method, except for certain technology assets discussed below. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the remaining term of the lease or the useful life of the asset. Maintenance and repairs are charged to
operations as incurred.



We develop software that
is used in providing processing services to customers. Capitalization of internally developed software, primarily associated with operating platforms, occurs when we have completed the preliminary project stage, management authorizes the project,
management commits to funding the project, it is probable the project will be completed and the project will be used to perform the function intended. The preliminary project stage consists of the conceptual formulation of alternatives, the
evaluation of alternatives, the determination of existence of needed technology and the final selection of alternatives. Costs incurred prior to the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred.



During fiscal 2010, we placed into service $54.9 million of
hardware and software associated with our next generation technology processing platform, referred to as G2. This platform is planned to be a new front-end operating environment for our merchant processing in the United States, Asia-Pacific, the
United Kingdom, and Canada, and is intended to replace a number of legacy platforms that have higher cost structures. Depreciation and amortization associated with these costs is calculated based on transactions expected to be processed over the
life of the platform. We believe that this method is more representative of the platform’s use than the straight-line method. We are currently processing transactions on our G2 platform in seven markets in our Asia-Pacific region. As these
markets represent a small percentage of our overall transactions, depreciation and amortization related to our G2 platform for fiscal 2011 was not significant. Depreciation and amortization expense will increase as we complete migrations of other
markets to the G2 platform. We did not place any hardware or software costs associated with G2 into service during fiscal 2011.



Goodwill and other intangible assets—We completed our most recent annual goodwill impairment test as of January 1,
2011 and determined that the fair value of each of our reporting units is substantially in excess of the carrying value. No events or changes in circumstances have occurred since the date of our most recent annual impairment test that would more
likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.



Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, and the impairment test consists of two steps. In the first step the reporting unit’s carrying amount, including goodwill, is compared
to its fair value which is measured based upon, among other factors, a discounted cash flow analysis as well as market multiples for comparable companies. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is greater than its fair value, goodwill is
considered impaired and step two must be performed. Step two measures the impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by
allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all the assets and liabilities of that unit (including unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. The excess of fair value over the amounts
allocated to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit is the implied fair value of goodwill. The excess of the carrying amount over the implied fair value is the impairment loss.



We have six reporting units: North America Merchant Services, UK Merchant Services, Asia Pacific Merchant
Services, Central and Eastern Europe Merchant Services, Russia Merchant Services and Spain Merchant Services. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of the income approach







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



and the market approach. The income approach utilizes a discounted cash flow model incorporating management’s expectations for future revenue, operating expenses, EBITDA, capital
expenditures and an anticipated tax rate. We discount the related cash flow forecasts using our estimated weighted-average cost of capital for each reporting unit at the date of valuation. The market approach utilizes comparative market multiples in
the valuation estimate. Multiples are derived by relating the value of guideline companies, based on either the market price of publicly traded shares or the prices of companies being acquired in the marketplace, to various measures of their
earnings and cash flow. Such multiples are then applied to the historical and projected earnings and cash flow of the reporting unit in developing the valuation estimate.

Preparation of forecasts and the selection of the discount rates involve significant judgments about expected future business performance and general market conditions. Significant changes in our
forecasts, the discount rates selected or the weighting of the income and market approach could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period.



Other intangible assets primarily represent customer-related
intangible assets (such as customer lists and merchant contracts), contract-based intangible assets (such as non-compete agreements, referral agreements and processing rights), and trademarks associated with acquisitions. Customer-related intangible
assets, contract-based intangible assets and certain trademarks are amortized over their estimated useful lives of up to 30 years. The useful lives for customer-related intangible assets are determined based primarily on forecasted cash flows, which
include estimates for the revenues, expenses, and customer attrition associated with the assets. The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreements. The useful lives of amortizable trademarks are based on
our plans to phase out the trademarks in the applicable markets.



Amortization for most of our customer-related intangible assets is calculated using an accelerated method. In determining amortization expense under our accelerated method for any given period, we
calculate the







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



expected cash flows for that period that were used in determining the acquired value of the asset and divide that amount by the expected total cash flows over the estimated life of the asset. We
multiply that percentage by the initial carrying value of the asset to arrive at the amortization expense for that period. In addition, if the cash flow patterns that we experience are less favorable than our initial estimates, we will adjust the
amortization schedule accordingly. These cash flow patterns are derived using certain assumptions and cost allocations due to a significant amount of asset interdependencies that exist in our business.



Impairment of long-lived assets—We
regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying amount of property and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable. When factors indicate that these long-lived assets should be
evaluated for possible impairment, we assess the potential impairment by determining whether the carrying value of such long-lived assets will be recovered through the future undiscounted cash flows expected from use of the asset and its eventual
disposition. If the carrying amount of the asset is determined not to be recoverable, a write-down to fair value is recorded. Fair values are determined based on quoted market values or discounted cash flows analyses as applicable. We regularly
evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the useful lives of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may warrant revision. In our opinion, the carrying values of our long-lived assets, including property
and equipment and finite-life intangible assets, were not impaired at May 31, 2011.



Income taxes—Deferred income taxes are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax laws and rates. A
valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.



At May 31, 2011, our consolidated balance sheet includes net deferred tax assets associated with our United Kingdom business of
$100.6 million.



Our effective tax rates,
reflected as the provision for income taxes divided by income from continuing operations before income tax, including the effect of noncontrolling interests, were 29.3%, 28.2%, and 29.2% for the years ended May 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008
respectively. Please see Note 8—Income Taxes for further information.



Fair value of financial instruments—We consider that the carrying amounts of our financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, lines of credit, accounts
payable and accrued liabilities, approximate their fair value given the short-term nature of these items. Our term loans include variable interest rates based on the prime rate or London Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin based on our leverage
position. At May 31, 2011, the carrying amount of our term loans approximates fair value. Our subsidiary in the Russian Federation has notes payable with interest rates ranging from 8.0% to 10.0% and maturity dates ranging from June 2011
through May 2016. At May 31, 2011, we believe the carrying amount of these notes approximates fair value. Please see Note 6 – Long-Term Debt and Lines of Credit for further information.



Financing receivables—Our subsidiary in
the Russian Federation purchases Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) and leases those ATMs to our sponsor bank. We have determined these arrangements to be direct financing leases. Accordingly, we have $18.9 million and $24.2 million of financing
receivables included in our May 31, 2011 and 2010 consolidated balance sheets, respectively.



There is an inherent risk that our customer may not pay the contractual balances due. We periodically review the financing receivables for credit losses and past due balances to determine whether an
allowance should be recorded. Historically we have not had any credit losses or past due balances associated with these receivables, and therefore we do not have an allowance recorded. We have had no financing receivables modified as troubled debt
restructurings nor have we had any purchases or sales of financing receivables.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



Fair value measurements—GAAP requires disclosures about assets and
liabilities that are measured at fair value. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the reporting date. The reporting
standard establishes consistency and comparability by providing a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques into three broad levels. Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities. Level 2 inputs are based on other observable market data, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable such as interest rates and yield curves. Level 3 inputs are
developed from unobservable data reflecting our assumptions, and include situations where there is little or no market activity for the asset or liability.



Foreign currencies—We have significant operations in a number of foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is
their local currency. Gains and losses on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies are included in determining net income for the period. For the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 our transaction
gains and losses were insignificant.



The assets
and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is a foreign currency are translated at the period-end rate of exchange. Income statement items are translated at the average rates prevailing during the period. The resulting translation
adjustment is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income and is included in equity. Translation gains and losses on intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature are also recorded as a component of other comprehensive income.



Retirement Benefits—We have a
noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering certain of our United States employees who met the eligibility provisions at the time the plan was closed on June 1, 1998. Benefits are based on years of service and the employee’s
compensation during the highest five consecutive years of earnings out of the last ten years of service. Plan provisions and funding meet the requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
(“ERISA”). Effective May 31, 2004, we modified the pension plan to cease benefit accruals for increases in compensation levels.



We also have a noncontributory defined benefit supplemental executive retirement plan (“SERP”) covering one participant, whose
employment ceased in fiscal 2002. This plan was initially formed by our former parent company and was transferred to us in the spin-off transaction that occurred on January 31, 2001. Benefits are based on years of service and the
employee’s compensation during the highest three consecutive years of earnings out of the last ten years of service. The SERP is a nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plan under ERISA.



The measurement date for the pension plans is May 31,
which coincides with the plans’ fiscal year. Our plan expenses for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 were actuarially determined. Due to the limited participation by employees in these plans and the related subsequent modifications, the total benefit
obligation and funded status of the plans is not material and we have not provided full disclosure of such amounts.



Earnings per share—Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing reported earnings available to common shareholders
by the weighted average shares outstanding during the period. Earnings available to common shareholders are the same as reported net income attributable to Global Payments for all periods presented.



Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing reported
earnings available to common shareholders by the weighted average shares outstanding during the period and the impact of securities that would have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. All options with an exercise price less than the average
market share price for the period are assumed to have a dilutive effect on earnings per share. The diluted share base for the years ended







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 excludes incremental shares of 0.7 million, 0.5 million, and 0.9 million related to stock options, respectively. These shares were not considered
in computing diluted earnings per share because including them would have had an antidilutive effect. No additional securities were outstanding that could potentially dilute basic earnings per share.



The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
diluted weighted average shares outstanding for the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:



201120102009(in thousands)Basic weighted average shares outstanding79,83781,07580,160Plus: dilutive effect of stock options and other share-based awards6411,045889Diluted weighted average shares outstanding80,47882,12081,049



Stock awards and
options—We expense the fair value of options over the vesting period. We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to calculate the fair value of share-based awards. Please see Note 10 – Share-Based Awards and Options for further
information.



New accounting
pronouncements—From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standards setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date.
Unless otherwise discussed, our management believes that the impact of recently issued standards that are not yet effective will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption.



In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05,
“Presentation of Comprehensive Income”(“ASU 2011-05”). In accordance with ASU 2011-05, an entity has the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other
comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each
component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the
statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. ASU 2011-05 does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. ASU 2011-05 is effective
retrospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. This standard will become effective for us beginning June 2012 and we are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial
statements.



In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU
2011-04, “Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS”(“ASU 2011-04”). The amendments in ASU 2011-04 result in common fair value measurement and disclosure
requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. Consequently, ASU 2011-04 changes the wording used to describe many of the requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. For many of the
requirements, the FASB does not intend for the amendments in ASU 2011-04 to result in a change in the application of the requirements in Topic 820. ASU 2011-04 is effective prospectively for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2011. This ASU will become effective for us beginning in the quarter ended May 31, 2012 and we do not expect an impact on our consolidated financial statements.



In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29, “Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for
Business Combinations”(“ASU 2010-29”). ASU 2010-29 amends and clarifies the acquisition date to be







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



used for reporting pro forma financial disclosures when comparative financial statements are presented. In addition, it requires a description of the nature of and amount of any material,
non-recurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination. ASU 2010-29 is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period
beginning on or after December 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. The standard will become effective for us beginning the quarter ended August 31, 2011 and will not have an impact on our financial position or results of operations as
it only amends required disclosures.



In December
2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-28, “When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts”(“ASU 2010-28”). ASU 2010-28 modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment
test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining
whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. The qualitative factors are consistent with existing
guidance which requires that goodwill of a reporting unit be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying
amount. This ASU is effective for us beginning June 1, 2011. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have an impact on our financial position or results of operations because none of our reporting units have zero or negative
carrying amounts.



In July 2010, the FASB issued
ASU 2010-20,“Receivables – Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses”(“ASU 2010-20”). ASU 2010-20 amends Accounting Standards Codification Topic 310 to improve
the disclosures that an entity provides about the credit quality of its financing receivables and the related allowance for credit losses. As a result of these amendments, an entity is required to disaggregate by portfolio segment or class certain
existing disclosures and provide new disclosures about its financing receivables and related allowance for credit losses. ASU 2010-20 was effective for us beginning with the quarter ended February 28, 2011. The impact of ASU 2010-20 on our
disclosures is reflected inFinancing Receivablesabove.



NOTE 2—BUSINESS AND INTANGIBLE ASSET ACQUISITIONS



In the years ended May 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, we acquired the following businesses and intangible assets:



BusinessDate AcquiredPercentageOwnershipFiscal 2011Comercia Global Payments Entidad de Pago, S.L.December 20, 201051%Various contract-based and customer related intangible assetsVarious100%Fiscal 2010HSBC Merchant Services LLPJune 12, 200949%Auctionpay, Inc. (currently known as Greater Giving)September 28, 2009100%HealthCard Systems / NationalCard Processing SystemsApril 21, 2010100%Fiscal 2009HSBC Merchant Services LLPJune 30, 200851%Global Payments Asia-Pacific Philippines IncorporatedSeptember 4, 200856%United Card ServiceApril 30, 2009100%Discover merchant portfolioVarious100%Money transfer branch locationsVarious100%







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



The business acquisitions have been recorded using the purchase method of accounting,
and accordingly, the purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value as of the date of acquisition. The operating results of each acquisition are included in our consolidated
statements of income from the dates of each acquisition.



Fiscal 2011



Comercia Global Payments Entidad de Pago, S.L.





We formed Comercia with “la Caixa”, one of the largest retail banks in Spain, to provide merchant acquiring services to
merchants in Spain. The purchase price was determined by analyzing the historical and prospective financial statements. This business acquisition is not significant to our consolidated financial statements and accordingly, we have not provided pro
forma information relating to this acquisition.



The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation (in thousands):



Goodwill$147,535Customer-related intangible assets96,100Contract-based intangible assets54,141Working capital, net8,476Total assets acquired306,252Non-controlling interest(132,738)Net assets acquired$173,514



The goodwill associated with
the acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. The customer-related intangible assets have estimated amortization periods of 10 years. The contract-based intangible assets have estimated amortization periods of 20 years.



Other



During the first half of fiscal year 2011, we acquired
contract-based and customer related intangible assets in our United States merchant services channel for $3.5 million. These intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 5 to 7 years.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



Fiscal 2010



HSBC Merchant Services LLP



On June 12, 2009, we purchased the remaining 49% of
HSBC Merchant Services LLP (the “LLP”) from HSBC Bank plc (“HSBC UK”) for $307.7 million in cash. We acquired our initial 51% majority ownership interest in the LLP on June 30, 2008 for which we paid HSBC UK $438.6
million. The purchase of the remaining 49% of the LLP was recorded as a reduction of redeemable noncontrolling interest. Accordingly, no additional value was ascribed to the assets of the LLP and there was no purchase price allocation for this
transaction. As a result, our tax basis in the LLP exceeds our book basis and we recorded a deferred tax asset on the purchase date in the amount of $90.0 million with a corresponding increase to retained earnings. Additionally, the purchase of our
49% interest in the LLP is reflected as a financing cash outflow in our statement of cash flows because it was treated as an equity transaction.



On July 10, 2009, we entered into a term loan to pay down the credit facility used to purchase the remaining 49% interest in the LLP.
Please see Note 6 – Long-term Debt and Lines of Credit for further information.



Greater Giving.



On September 28, 2009, we completed the acquisition of Auctionpay, Inc. (currently referred to as Greater Giving), a provider of fully integrated payment processing and software solutions for
fundraising activities for $22.0 million in cash. The purpose of this acquisition was to expand our direct acquiring business into a vertical market that, to date, is still heavily dependent on cash and check as the primary means of payment. The
purchase price was determined by analyzing the historical and prospective financial statements. This business acquisition was not material to our consolidated financial statements and accordingly, we have not provided pro forma information relating
to this acquisition.



The following table
summarizes the purchase price allocation (in thousands):



Goodwill$11,827Customer-related intangible assets4,900Contract-based intangible assets1,200Trademark300Property and equipment4,815Total assets acquired23,042Working capital, net(201)Liabilities(841)Net assets acquired$22,000



None of the goodwill
associated with the acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. The customer-related intangible assets have estimated amortization periods of 14 years. The contract-based intangible assets have estimated amortization periods of 2 years. The
trademark has an estimated amortization period of 8 years.



HealthCard Systems



On April 21, 2010, we completed an asset purchase agreement with HealthCard Systems and NationalCard Processing Systems. Under the terms of the agreement we paid a total of $11.7 million. The purpose
of this acquisition was to expand our merchant services portfolio in North America. The purchase price was determined







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



by analyzing the historical and prospective financial statements. This business acquisition was not material to our consolidated financial statements and accordingly, we have not provided pro
forma information relating to this acquisition.



The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation (in thousands):



Goodwill$5,838Customer-related intangible assets5,710Contract-based intangible assets120Net assets acquired$11,668



None of the goodwill
associated with the acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. The customer-related intangible assets have estimated amortization periods of 7 years.



Other



On March 31, 2010, we acquired a contract-based intangible asset in our United States merchant services channel for $0.8 million.
This intangible asset is being amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 5 years.



Fiscal 2009



HSBC Merchant Services LLP



We acquired our initial 51% majority ownership interest in the LLP on June 30, 2008. We paid HSBC UK $438.6 million for our interest. We funded the acquisition using a combination of excess cash and
proceeds of a term loan.



The purpose of this
acquisition was to establish a presence in the United Kingdom and position Global Payments for further expansion into Western Europe. The key factors that contributed to the decision to make this acquisition include historical and prospective
financial statement analysis and HSBC UK’s market share and retail presence in the United Kingdom. The purchase price was determined by analyzing the historical and prospective financial statements and applying relevant purchase price
multiples.



The purchase price totaled $441.6
million, consisting of $438.6 million cash consideration plus $3.0 million of direct out of pocket costs. The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation (in thousands):



Goodwill$299,474Customer-related intangible assets117,063Contract-based intangible assets13,462Trademark2,209Property and equipment22,328Other current assets112Total assets acquired454,648Noncontrolling interest in equity of subsidiary (at historical cost)(13,014)Net assets acquired$441,634







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



All of the goodwill associated with the acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax
purposes. The customer-related intangible assets have amortization periods of 13 years. The contract-based intangible assets have amortization periods of 7 years. The trademark has an amortization period of 5 years.



The following unaudited pro forma information shows the
results of our operations for the years ended May 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 as if the acquisition of both the 51% and 49% interests of HSBC UK had occurred on June 1, 2007. The unaudited pro forma information is presented for information
purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what would have occurred if the acquisition had been made as of that date. The unaudited pro forma information is also not intended to be a projection of future results expected due to the
integration of the acquired business.



Years Ended May 31,201020092008(in thousands)Total revenues$1,642,468$1,483,251$1,367,042Net income including noncontrolling interest$219,109$78,888$224,759Net income attributable to Global Payments for the period$204,360$63,882$216,698Net income attributable to Global Payments per share, basic$2.52$0.80$2.72Net income attributable to Global Payments per share, diluted$2.49$0.79$2.67



United Card Service



On April 30, 2009, we completed the
acquisition of all outstanding stock of United Card Service (“UCS”), a leading direct merchant acquirer and indirect payment processor in the Russian Federation, from United Investments. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid a total of
$75.0 million in cash to acquire UCS of which $20 million remains in escrow until January 1, 2013, to satisfy any liabilities discovered post-closing that existed at the purchase date.



The purpose of this acquisition was to establish an acquiring presence in the Russian market and a foundation
for other direct acquiring opportunities in Central and Eastern Europe. The purchase price was determined by analyzing the historical and prospective financial statements. This business acquisition was not material to our consolidated financial
statements and accordingly, we have not provided pro forma information relating to this acquisition.



The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation (in thousands):



Current financing receivables$1,620Other current assets9,098Goodwill35,429Customer-related intangible assets16,900Trademark3,200Property and equipment19,132Financing receivables12,481Other long-term assets640Total assets acquired98,500Current liabilities(7,228)Notes payable(8,723)Deferred income taxes and other long-term liabilities(7,549)Total liabilities assumed(23,500)Net assets acquired$75,000







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



The goodwill associated with the acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes. The
customer-related intangible assets have amortization periods of 9 to 15 years. The trademark has an amortization period of 10 years.



Global Payments Asia-Pacific Philippines Incorporated



On September 4, 2008, Global Payments Asia-Pacific,
Limited (“GPAP”), the entity through which we conduct our merchant acquiring business in the Asia-Pacific region, indirectly acquired Global Payments Asia-Pacific Philippines Incorporated (“GPAP Philippines”), a newly formed
company into which HSBC Asia Pacific contributed its merchant acquiring business in the Philippines. We own 56% of GPAP and HSBC Asia Pacific owns the remaining 44%. We purchased our share of GPAP Philippines for $10.9 million. The purpose of this
acquisition was to expand our presence in the Asia-Pacific market. This business acquisition was not material to our consolidated financial statements and accordingly, we have not provided pro forma information relating to this acquisition.



The following table summarizes the purchase price
allocation (in thousands):



Goodwill$6,286Customer-related intangible assets3,248Contract-based intangible assets952Trademark224Property and equipment300Total assets acquired11,010Noncontrolling interest in equity of subsidiary (at historical cost)(132)Net assets acquired$10,878



None of the goodwill
associated with the acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. The customer-related intangible assets have amortization periods of 11 years. The contract-based intangible assets have amortization periods of 7 years. The trademark has an
amortization period of 5 years.



Money
Transfer Branch Locations



During 2009,
we completed the second and final series of money transfer branch location acquisitions in the United States as part of an assignment and asset purchase agreement with a privately held company. The purpose of this acquisition was to increase the
market presence of our DolEx-branded money transfer offering. The purchase price of these acquisitions was $0.8 million, which was primarily allocated to goodwill.



This business acquisition was not material to our
consolidated financial statements and accordingly, we have not provided pro forma information relating to this acquisition.



NOTE 3—DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS



On May 26, 2010, we completed the
disposition of our DolEx and Europhil-branded money transfer businesses to an affiliate of Palladium Equity Partners, LLC for $85.0 million. Under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement, we received net proceeds of $60.2 million ($85.0 million
less $24.8 million remaining in the business at closing to fund associated settlement obligations), subject to final working capital adjustments.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



The operating results of the money transfer segment have been reported as discontinued
operations as follows:



Years Ended May 31,20102009(in thousands)Revenues$117,882$139,218Operating income (loss) (includes impairment charge of $147,664 in fiscal 2009)7,724(131,117)Loss on disposal(24,567)—Other (expense) income(229)275Loss before income taxes(17,072)(130,842)Income tax benefit (provision)13,171(1,997)Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax$(3,901)$(132,839)



The 2010 loss on disposal
included costs to sell of $1.5 million. The fiscal year 2010 income tax benefit included $15.7 million of tax benefits associated with the disposition. The impairment charge in fiscal year 2009 was not deductible for tax purposes. During fiscal year
2011, we reported a loss from discontinued operations, net of tax of $1.0 million. During fiscal year 2011, we paid Palladium $2.6 million in a settlement of working capital adjustments, $2.0 million of which was accrued in fiscal 2010, and
recognized additional loss of $0.6 million for a total loss on disposal of $25.2 million.



NOTE 4—PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT



As of May 31, 2011 and 2010,
property and equipment consisted of the following:



Range ofUseful Livesin Years20112010(in thousands)LandN/A$2,298$1,891Buildings25-3040,42634,344Equipment2-5175,446126,963Software5-10125,248103,429Leasehold improvements5-1511,5838,594Furniture and fixtures5-75,2784,034Work in progressN/A43,69224,085403,971303,340Less accumulated depreciation and amortization of property and equipment147,670119,402$256,301$183,938



Depreciation and amortization
expense of property and equipment was $40.5 million, $35.9 million, and $35.4 million for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NOTE 5—GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS



As of May 31, 2011 and 2010,
goodwill and intangible assets consisted of the following:



20112010(in thousands)Goodwill$779,637$569,090Other intangible assets:Customer-related intangible assets$457,226$322,053Trademarks, finite life8,6598,046Contract-based intangible assets72,68120,087538,566350,186Less accumulated amortization on:Customer-related intangible assets181,372136,333Trademarks4,1382,691Contract-based intangible assets11,5566,052197,066145,076$341,500$205,110



The following table discloses
the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended May 31, 2011 and 2010:



NorthAmericamerchantservicesInternationalmerchantservicesDiscontinuedoperationsTotal(in thousands)Balance at May 31, 2009$188,402$386,318$187,200$761,920Accumulated impairment losses——(136,800)(136,800)188,402386,31850,400625,120Goodwill acquired17,695——17,695Purchase price allocation adjustments—(790)—(790)Disposition——(49,836)(49,836)Effect of foreign currency translation3,968(26,503)(564)(23,099)Balance at May 31, 2010210,065359,025—569,090Accumulated impairment losses————210,065359,025—569,090Goodwill acquired—147,535—147,535Purchase price allocation adjustments(30)——(30)Effect of foreign currency translation7,38755,655—63,042Balance at May 31, 2011217,422562,215—779,637Accumulated impairment losses————$217,422$562,215$—$779,637



Customer-related intangible
assets and contract-based intangible assets acquired during the year ended May 31, 2011 have weighted average amortization periods of 9.9 years and 20.0 years, respectively. Trademarks with a finite life, customer-related intangible assets and
contract-based intangible assets acquired during the year ended May 31, 2010 have weighted average amortization periods of 8.0 years, 9.7 years and 4.6 years, respectively. Amortization expense of acquired intangibles was $41.7 million, $32.8
million, and $30.9 million for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



The estimated amortization expense of acquired intangibles as of May 31, 2011 for
the next five fiscal years, calculated using the exchange rate at the date of acquisition, is as follows (in thousands):



2012$49,568201342,217201436,307201531,145201626,280



NOTE 6—LONG-TERM DEBT AND LINES OF CREDIT



Outstanding debt consisted of the
following:



May 31,2011May 31,2010Lines of credit:(in thousands)Corporate Credit Facility$183,975$—Short-term lines of credit:United Kingdom Credit Facility108,333—Hong Kong Credit Facility73,55463,786Canada Credit Facility18,725—Malaysia Credit Facility17,743—Spain Credit Facility17,646—Singapore Credit Facility17,245—Philippines Credit Facility9,7369,064Maldives Credit Facility3,2022,501Macau Credit Facility2,3721,454Sri Lanka Credit Facility2,1892,382270,74579,187Total lines of credit454,72079,187Notes Payable14,28510,064Term loans155,759411,070Total debt$624,764$500,321Current portion$356,547$227,356Long-term debt268,217272,965Total debt$624,764$500,321



Maturity requirements on term
loans and notes payable are as follows (in thousands):



2012$356,547201377,75820142,72520152,4842016185,250Total$624,764







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



Lines of Credit



Our line of credit facilities are used to provide a source of working capital and for general corporate
purposes, while the Corporate Credit Facility is additionally available to fund future strategic acquisitions. Certain of our line of credit facilities allow us to fund merchants for credit and debit card transactions prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from credit and debit card networks. With certain of our credit facilities, the facility nets the amounts pre-funded to merchants against specific cash balances in local Global Payments accounts, which we characterize
as cash and cash equivalents. Therefore, the amounts reported in lines of credit, which represents the amounts pre-funded to merchants, may exceed the stated credit limit, when in fact the combined position is less than the credit limit. The
total available borrowings under our credit facilities at May 31, 2011 were $892.7 million. Our line of credit facilities consist of the following:



•Corporate—On December 7, 2010, we entered into a new, unsecured five-year, $600.0 million revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the
Corporate Credit Facility with a syndicate of financial institutions. The multi-currency facility expires in December 2015 and has a variable interest rate based on a market short-term interest rate plus a leverage based margin. In addition, the
Corporate Credit Facility allows us to expand the facility size to $750.0 million by requesting additional commitments from new or existing lenders. The Corporate Credit Facility contains certain financial and non-financial covenants and events of
default customary for financings of this nature.



We plan to use the Corporate Credit Facility to support strategic growth initiatives and for general corporate purposes, and we used approximately $150.0 million of the new facility to pay down existing
term loan debt. As of May 31, 2011, interest rates on the term loan were 1.7% and 2.1%, for United States dollar and British Pound Sterling borrowings, respectively, and the aggregate outstanding balance was $184.0 million. The Corporate
Credit Facility is included in long-term debt in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets because we are not contractually obligated to make repayments in the next twelve months. In conjunction with our entry into the Corporate Credit Facility
on December 7, 2010, we terminated our United States Credit Facility, which was due to expire in November 2011.



•United Kingdom—a revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank, for up to £80.0 million to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This credit facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the outstanding facility balance was $108.3 million (£65.9 million) with an interest
rate of 2.0%. This facility is subject to annual review.



•Hong Kong—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Limited Hong Kong, for up to HKD 1.0 billion to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This facility is denominated in Hong Kong dollars and has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 and 2010 the interest rates on the facility
were 0.9% and 0.7%, respectively. This facility is subject to annual review.



•Canada—a revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our Canada Credit Facility, with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, or CIBC. The
Canada Credit Facility is a facility which consists of a line of credit of $25.0 million Canadian dollars. In addition, the Canada Credit Facility allows us to expand the size of the uncommitted facility to $50.0 million Canadian dollars and does
not have a fixed term. This credit facility carries no termination date, but can be terminated by either party with advance notice. This credit facility has card association receivables and CIBC settlement related bank accounts as pledged
collateral. This credit facility has a variable interest rate based on the Canadian dollar Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the outstanding facility balance was $18.7 million ($18.1 million CAD) with an interest rate of
3.3%.



•Malaysia—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad, for up to 90.0 million Malaysian ringgits to fund merchants
prior to receipt of corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest rate on the facility was 3.7%. This facility is subject to
annual review.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



•Spain—a revolving credit facility with “la Caixa”, for up to €180.0 million to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This credit facility also allows borrowings in British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, and United States dollars, and has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of
May 31, 2011 the aggregate outstanding facility balance was $17.6 million for all currencies (€12.2 million) with a weighted interest rate of 1.2%. The term of the facility is through January 2012, at which time we intend to enter into a
new agreement.



•Singapore—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Banking Corporation Limited, for up to 25.0 million Singapore dollars to fund
merchants prior to receipt of corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest rate on the facility was 0.9%. This facility is
subject to annual review.



•Philippines—a revolving facility with HSBC Bank, Philippines, for up to 350.0 million Pesos and $1.5 million United States dollars
to fund merchants prior to receipt of corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. The facility has variable short term interest rates plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest rates on the facility was 5.0%
for the Pesos tranche and 0.6% for the United States dollars tranche. As of May 31, 2010, the interest rates on the facility were 4.5% for the Pesos tranche and 0.8% for the United States dollar tranche. This facility is subject to annual review.



•Maldives—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Bank, Maldives, for up to $4.0 million to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. This facility is denominated in United States dollars and has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 and 2010 the interest rates on the
facility were 4.7% and 4.9%, respectively. This facility is subject to annual review.



•Macau—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Asia Pacific, for 40.0 million Macau Pataca to fund merchants prior to receipt of
corresponding settlement funds from the card associations. In addition, the Macau Credit Facility allows us to expand the size of the uncommitted facility to 150 million Macau Pataca. This credit facility has a variable interest rate based on
the lending rate stipulated by HSBC Asia Pacific, less a margin. As of May 31, 2011 and 2010 the interest rate on the facility was 2.5%. This facility is subject to annual review.



•Sri Lanka—a revolving overdraft facility with HSBC Bank, Sri Lanka, for 650.0 million Sri Lankan Rupees in two tranches: one to fund
merchants prior to receipt of corresponding settlement funds from the card associations and the other for general corporate purposes. The facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of May 31, 2011 the interest
rate on the settlement tranche of the facility was 10.1% and the general tranche was undrawn. As of May 31, 2010 the interest rates on the settlement and general tranches of the facility were 11.4% and 12.4%, respectively. This facility is subject
to annual review.



•National Bank of Canada—a revolving credit facility for up to $80.0 million Canadian dollars and $5 million United States dollars to provide
certain Canadian merchants with same day value for their Canadian and United States dollar MasterCard credit card transactions and debit card transactions. This credit facility has a variable short term interest rate plus a margin. As of
May 31, 2011 and 2010 the facility was undrawn.



Term Loans



We have a five year unsecured $200.0 million term loan agreement with a syndicate of banks in the United States which we used to partially fund our HSBC Merchant Services LLP acquisition. The term loan
bears interest, at our election, at the prime rate or LIBOR, plus a leverage based margin. As of May 31, 2011 and 2010, the interest rate on the term loan was 1.26% and 1.4%, respectively. The term loan calls for quarterly principal payments of
$5.0 million beginning with the quarter ended August 31, 2008 and increasing to $10.0 million







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



beginning with the quarter ended August 31, 2010 and $15.0 million beginning with the quarter ending August 31, 2011. As of May 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of the term loan
was $120.0 million.



We have a $300.0 million term
loan agreement ($230.0 million and £43.5 million) with a syndicate of financial institutions. We used the proceeds of this term loan to pay down our then-existing credit facility which







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



had been used to initially fund the purchase of the remaining 49% interest in the LLP. In December 2010, the entire balance of the United States dollar portion of the term loan was repaid by a
borrowing on the Corporate Credit Facility, and the facility terms were amended. The term loan expires in July 2012 and has a variable interest rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a leverage based margin. As of May 31,
2011, the interest rate on the remaining British Pound Sterling portion of the term loan was 2.1%. The term loan requires quarterly principal payments of £2.2 million beginning with the quarter ended August 31, 2009 and
increasing to £3.3 million beginning with the quarter ended August 31, 2010. As of May 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of this term loan was $35.8 million (£21.7million).



Notes Payable



Our subsidiary in the Russian Federation has notes payable
with a total outstanding balance of approximately $14.3 million at May 31, 2011. These notes are used to fund the purchase of ATMs and have interest rates ranging from 8.0% to 10.0% with maturity dates ranging from June 2011 through May 2016.



Compliance with Covenants



There are certain financial and non-financial covenants
contained in our various credit facilities and term loans. Our term loan agreements include financial covenants requiring a leverage ratio no greater than 3.25 to 1.00 and a fixed charge coverage ratio no less than 2.50 to 1.00. We complied with
these covenants as of May 31, 2011.



NOTE 7—ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES



As of May 31, 2011 and 2010,
accounts payable and accrued liabilities consisted of the following:



20112010(in thousands)Trade accounts payable$20,053$15,426Compensation and benefits37,03328,346Third party processing expenses14,25413,767Commissions to third parties49,86838,729Accrued fees and assessment expenses21,46814,237Transition services payable to HSBC UK, HSBC Asia Pacific and Comercia25,4899,594Other73,41353,476$241,578$173,575







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NOTE 8—INCOME TAXES



The provisions for income taxes for the
fiscal years ended May 31 include:



201120102009(in thousands)Current tax expense:Federal$42,034$37,151$64,308State2,5971,5614,758Foreign18,35814,2666,92762,98952,97875,993Deferred tax expense:Federal17,84923,2402,381State(1,045)1,933349Foreign15,2839,2286,52932,08734,4019,260Provision for income taxes95,07687,37985,252Tax allocated to noncontrolling interest in a taxable entity(3,027)(587)(1,622)Net income tax expense attributable to Global Payments$92,049$86,792$83,630



The following presents our
income from continuing operations before income taxes for the fiscal years ended May 31:



201120102009(in thousands)Income before income taxes and noncontrolling interest – U.S.$177,345$189,116$204,947Income before income taxes and noncontrolling interest – Foreign146,862121,27387,322Income from continuing operations before income taxes$324,207$310,389$292,269



Our effective tax rates, as
applied to income from continuing operations before income taxes for the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 respectively, differ from federal statutory rates as follows:



201120102009Federal statutory rate35.0%35.0%35.0%State income taxes, net of federal income tax benefit0.30.81.3Foreign income taxes(3.8)(3.3)(2.4)Foreign interest income not subject to tax(2.7)(1.9)(1.7)Tax credits and other1.4(1.0)0.8Effective tax rate attributable to Global Payments30.2%29.6%33.0%Noncontrolling interest(0.9)(1.4)(3.8)Effective tax rate29.3%28.2%29.2%







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



Deferred income taxes are determined based on the difference between the financial
statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred income taxes as of May 31, 2011 and 2010 reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
accounting and income tax purposes. As of May 31, 2011 and 2010, principal components of deferred tax items were as follows:



20112010(in thousands)Deferred tax assets:Equity compensation$11,734$11,956Bad debt expense2,6123,038Foreign NOL carryforward3,0503,754U.S. NOL carryforward1,9452,826U.S. capital loss carryforward19,88618,011Basis difference—UK business100,64687,474Foreign Tax Credit13,196—Other Tax credits1,7312,685154,800129,744Less: valuation allowance(28,629)(22,406)Net deferred tax asset126,171107,338Deferred tax liabilities:Accrued expenses and other6,206495Foreign currency translation37,45232,258Acquired intangibles42,38940,885Prepaid expenses3,3304,354Property and equipment46,14024,389135,517102,381Net deferred tax (liability) asset(9,346)4,957Less: current net deferred tax asset2,9462,752Net noncurrent deferred tax (liability) asset$(12,292)$2,205



The net deferred tax
liability and asset is reflected on our consolidated balance sheets as follows:



20112010(in thousands)Non-current deferred income tax asset per balance sheet$104,140$90,470Non-current deferred income tax liability per balance sheet(116,432)(88,265)Net non-current deferred tax (liability) asset$(12,292)$2,205



In May 2011, we generated
foreign tax credits from the repatriation of our Canadian operations which are not permanently invested. Undistributed earnings of approximately $237.3 million from certain foreign subsidiaries are permanently invested abroad and will not be
repatriated to the United States in the foreseeable future. In accordance with FASB guidance, because those earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested, no domestic federal or state deferred income taxes have been provided thereon. Upon
distribution of those earnings, in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to both U.S. income taxes (subject to an







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



adjustment for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign countries. Because of the availability of United States foreign tax credits, it is not practicable to
determine the domestic federal income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were not reinvested indefinitely.



A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized. Changes to our valuation allowance during the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011 are summarized below (in thousands):



Valuation allowance at May 31, 2010$(22,406)Allowance for net operating losses of foreign subsidiaries(422)Allowance for U.S. capital loss carryforward(1,876)Allowance for foreign tax credit carryforward(3,701)Other(224)Valuation allowance at May 31, 2011$(28,629)



Net operating loss
carryforwards of foreign subsidiaries totaling $18.9 million and U.S. net operating loss carryforwards previously acquired totaling $5.4 million at May 31, 2011 will expire if not utilized between May 31, 2015 and May 31, 2029.
Capital loss carryforwards of U.S. subsidiaries totaling $56.2 million will expire if not utilized by May 31, 2015. Tax credit carryforwards totaling $14.9 million at May 31, 2011 will expire if not utilized between May 31, 2015 and
May 31, 2021.



Due to the June 12, 2009
acquisition of the remaining 49% interest from in HSBC Merchant Services LLP, our tax basis in the LLP exceeds our book basis and we recorded a deferred tax asset, currently valued at $100.6 million. Please see Note 2—Business and Intangible
Asset Acquisitions for further information.



As of
May 31, 2011 and 2010, other long-term liabilities included liabilities for unrecognized income tax benefits of $37.2 million and $20.8 million, respectively.



A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of
unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:



201120102009(in thousands)Balance at the beginning of the year$20,750$10,313$3,713Additions based on tax positions related to the current year13,60813,1067,258Additions for tax positions of prior years287151167Foreign currency impact for tax positions2,741(796)237Reductions for tax positions of prior years(56)(2,024)(1,062)Settlements with taxing authorities(133)——Balance at the end of the year$37,197$20,750$10,313



As of May 31, 2011 and
2010, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate was $1.8 million and $1.4 million, respectively. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that will impact income tax during the
upcoming fiscal year is insignificant.



We
recognize accrued interest related to unrecognized income tax benefits in interest expense and accrued penalty expense related to unrecognized tax benefits in sales, general and administrative expenses. Interest and penalties recognized in the
income statement were insignificant in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in the United States federal
jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world, including such major jurisdictions as the United States, United Kingdom and Canada.
With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to income tax examinations for years ended May 31, 2005 and prior.



NOTE 9—SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY



On April 23, 2010, our Board of
Directors approved a share repurchase program that authorized the purchase of up to $100 million of Global Payments’ stock in the open market or as otherwise may be determined by us, subject to market conditions, business opportunities and
other factors. Under this authorization, we repurchased 2,382,890 shares of our common stock at a cost of $100 million, or an average of $41.97 per share, including commissions during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Repurchased shares are held as
treasury stock.



During the first quarter of
fiscal 2011, we also used the $13.0 million remaining under the authorization from our original share repurchase program initiated during fiscal 2007 to repurchase 344,847 shares of our common stock a cost of $13.0 million, or an average of $37.64
per share, including commissions. These repurchased shares are also held as treasury stock. The remaining shares repurchased under this authorization were retired and are considered issued but not outstanding.



NOTE 10—SHARE-BASED AWARDS AND OPTIONS



As of May 31, 2011, we have four
share-based employee compensation plans. For all share-based awards granted after June 1, 2006, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis. The fair value of share-based awards granted prior to June 1, 2006 is amortized as
compensation expense on an accelerated basis from the date of the grant.



Non-qualified stock options and restricted stock have been granted to officers, key employees and directors under the Global Payments Inc. 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the
“2000 Plan”), the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan (the “2005 Plan”), and an Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the “Director Plan”) (collectively, the
“Plans”). Effective with the adoption of the 2005 Plan, there are no future grants under the 2000 Plan. Shares available for future grant as of May 31, 2011 are 1.8 million for the 2005 Plan and 0.3 million for the Director
Plan.



Certain executives are also granted
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units (“RSU”s). RSUs represent the right to earn shares of Global Payments stock if certain performance measures are achieved during the grant year. The target number of RSUs and target performance
measures are set by our Compensation Committee. RSUs are converted to a stock grant only if the Company’s performance during the fiscal year exceeds pre-established goals.



The following table summarizes the share-based compensation
cost charged to income for (i) all stock options granted, (ii) our employee stock purchase plan, and (iii) our restricted stock program. The total income tax benefit recognized for share-based compensation in the accompanying
statements of income is also presented.



201120102009Share-based compensation cost$15.9$18.1$14.6Income tax benefit$(5.5)$(6.3)$(5.2)







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



Stock Options



Stock options are granted at 100% of fair market value on
the date of grant and have 10-year terms. Stock options granted vest one year after the date of grant in 25% increments over a 4 year period. The Plans provide for accelerated vesting under certain conditions. We have historically issued new shares
to satisfy the exercise of options.



The following
is a summary of our stock option plans as of and for the years ended May 31, 2011 and 2010:



Options(in thousands)WeightedAverageExercisePriceWeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm(years)AggregateIntrinsicValue(in 
millions)Outstanding at May 31, 20094,293$285.337.8Granted28543Forfeited(179)28Exercised(1,357)23Outstanding at May 31, 20103,042314.932.7Granted32538Forfeited(200)36Exercised(714)29Outstanding at May 31, 20112,453325.145.9Options vested and exercisable at May 31, 20111,821$314.038.5Options vested and exercisable at May 31, 20102,369$283.933.1



The aggregate intrinsic value
of stock options exercised during the fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $14.8 million, $30.1 million and $8.1 million, respectively. As of May 31, 2011, we had $5.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested options,
which we expect to recognize over a weighted average period of 1.4 years.



The weighted average grant-date fair values of each option granted in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 under each plan are as follows:



2011201020092005 Plan$11$14$13Director Plan$12$15$13







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



The fair value of each option granted during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model with the following weighted average assumptions used for the grants during the respective period:



2011201020092005 Plan:Risk-free interest rates1.74%2.72%3.15%Expected volatility31.96%32.31%28.27%Dividend yields0.21%0.21%0.19%Expected lives5 years5 years5 yearsDirector Plan:Risk-free interest rates1.31%2.24%2.68%Expected volatility31.96%32.31%28.17%Dividend yields0.21%0.21%0.19%Expected lives5 years5 years5 years



The risk-free interest rate
is based on the yield of a zero coupon United States Treasury security with a maturity equal to the expected life of the option from the date of the grant. Our assumption on expected volatility is based on our historical volatility. The dividend
yield assumption is calculated using our average stock price over the preceding year and the annualized amount of our current quarterly dividend. We based our assumptions on the expected lives of the options on our analysis of the historical
exercise patterns of the options and our assumption on the future exercise pattern of options.



Restricted Stock



Shares awarded under the restricted stock program, issued under the 2000 Plan and 2005 Plan, are held in escrow and released to the grantee upon the grantee’s satisfaction of conditions of the
grantee’s restricted stock agreement. The grant date fair value of restricted stock awards is based on the quoted fair market value of our common stock at the award date. Compensation expense is recognized ratably during the escrow period of
the award.



Grants of restricted shares are
subject to forfeiture if a grantee, among other conditions, leaves our employment prior to expiration of the restricted period. Grants of restricted shares generally vest one year after the date of grant with respect to 25% of the shares granted, an
additional 25% after two years, an additional 25% after three years, and the remaining 25% after four years.



The following table summarizes the changes in non-vested restricted stock awards for the years ended May 31, 2011 and 2010 (share
awards in thousands):



SharesWeighted 
AverageGrant-DateFair ValueNon-vested at May 31, 2009762$42Granted42042Vested(302)41Forfeited(167)43Non-vested at May 31, 201071342Granted46138Vested(259)42Forfeited(46)40Non-vested at May 31, 201186940







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



The weighted average grant-date fair value of share awards granted in the year ended
May 31, 2009 was $43. The total fair value of share awards vested during the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $10.8 million, $12.4 million and $6.2 million, respectively.



We recognized compensation expense for restricted stock of $12.5 million, $12.1 million, and $9.0 million in
the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. As of May 31, 2011, there was $24.2 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock awards that is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period
of 2.5 years.



Employee Stock Purchase Plan



We have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan under which the sale
of 2.4 million shares of our common stock has been authorized. Employees may designate up to the lesser of $25,000 or 20% of their annual compensation for the purchase of stock. The price for shares purchased under the plan is 85% of the market
value on the last day of the quarterly purchase period. As of May 31, 2011, 0.9 million shares had been issued under this plan, with 1.5 million shares reserved for future issuance.



The weighted average grant-date fair value of each designated
share purchased under this plan was $6, $7 and $6 in the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These values represent the fair value of the 15% discount.



NOTE 11—NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS



Effective June 1, 2010, we adopted
the FASB guidance on noncontrolling interests. The following table details the components of redeemable noncontrolling interests for the fiscal years ended 2011 and 2010:



20112010(in thousands)Beginning balance$102,672$399,377Acquisition of redeemable noncontrolling interest—(307,675)Net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests9,5927,763Distributions to redeemable noncontrolling interest—(11,896)Foreign currency translation adjustments(10,826)—Increase in fair value of redeemable noncontrolling interests32,42015,103Ending balance$133,858$102,672



For the fiscal years ended
2011, 2010 and 2009, net income included in the consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ equity is reconciled to net income presented in the consolidated statements of income as follows:



201120102009(in thousands)Net income attributable to Global Payments$209,238$203,317$37,217Net income attributable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests9,3268,0297,471Subtotal218,564211,34644,688Net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interest9,5927,76329,490Net income including noncontrolling interest$228,156$219,109$74,178







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NOTE 12—SEGMENT INFORMATION



General information



We operate in two reportable segments, defined as North
America Merchant Services and International Merchant Services. Beginning with the three months ended November 30, 2009, our former Money Transfer segment has been reported as discontinued operations. The following tables reflect our segments
included in continuing operations. The merchant services segments primarily offer processing solutions for credit cards, debit cards, and check-related services.



Information about profit and assets



We evaluate performance and allocate resources based on the
operating income of each segment. The operating income of each segment includes the revenues of the segment less those expenses that are directly related to those revenues. Operating overhead, shared costs and certain compensation costs are included
in corporate in the following table. Interest expense or income and income tax expense are not allocated to the individual segments. Lastly, we do not evaluate performance or allocate resources using segment asset data. The accounting policies of
the reportable segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 1.



Information on segments, including revenue by geographic distribution within segments, and reconciliations to consolidated revenues and
consolidated operating income are as follows for the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009:



201120102009(in thousands)Revenues:United States$1,031,997$902,844$805,557Canada330,872317,272301,294North America merchant services1,362,8691,220,1161,106,851Europe359,567315,023265,121Asia-Pacific137,366107,32990,334International merchant services496,933422,352355,455Consolidated revenues$1,859,802$1,642,468$1,462,306Operating income for segments:North America merchant services$268,233$275,386$272,972International merchant services143,911113,69982,763Corporate(80,550)(65,806)(63,189)Consolidated operating income$331,594$323,279$292,546Depreciation and amortization:North American merchant services$32,605$26,221$23,443International merchant services48,10440,56438,074Discontinued operations—1,3634,263Corporate1,528519508Consolidated depreciation and amortization$82,237$68,667$66,288







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



Our results of operations and our financial condition are not significantly reliant upon
any single customer.



The following is a breakdown
of long-lived assets by geographic regions as of May 31, 2011 and 2010:



20112010(in thousands)United States$291,301$263,385Canada181,837165,862Europe812,936447,683Asia-Pacific91,36481,208Latin America——$1,377,438$958,138



NOTE 13—COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Leases



We conduct a major part of our operations using leased
facilities and equipment. Many of these leases have renewal and purchase options and provide that we pay the cost of property taxes, insurance and maintenance. Rent expense on all operating leases for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $14.0 million,
$32.8 million, and $30.2 million, respectively.



Future minimum lease payments for all noncancelable leases at May 31, 2011 were as follows (in thousands):



Operating Leases2012$7,80220135,85020148,35120156,43520165,531Thereafter26,758Total future minimum lease payments$60,727



Legal



We are party to a number of claims and lawsuits incidental
to our business. In our opinion, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from the outcome of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial position, liquidity or
results of operations.



Taxes



We define operating taxes as tax contingencies that are
unrelated to income taxes, such as sales and property taxes. During the course of operations, we must interpret the meaning of various operating tax matters in the United States and in the foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. Taxing
authorities in those various jurisdictions may arrive at different interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as they relate to such operating tax matters, which could result in the payment of additional taxes in those
jurisdictions.



As of May 31, 2011 and 2010 we
did not have a liability for operating tax items based on management’s best estimate given our history with similar matters and interpretations of current laws and regulations.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



BIN/ICA Agreements



In connection with our acquisition of merchant credit card
operations of banks, we have entered into sponsorship or depository and processing agreements with certain of the banks. These agreements allow us to use the banks’ identification numbers, referred to as Bank Identification Number for Visa
transactions and Interbank Card Association number for MasterCard transactions, to clear credit card transactions through Visa and MasterCard. Certain of such agreements contain financial covenants, and we were in compliance with all such covenants
as of May 31, 2011.



Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest



We have a redeemable noncontrolling interest
associated with our Asia-Pacific merchant services business channel. Global Payments Asia-Pacific, Limited, or GPAP, is the entity through which we conduct our merchant acquiring business in the Asia-Pacific region. We own 56% of GPAP and HSBC
Asia Pacific owns the remaining 44%. The GPAP shareholders agreement includes provisions pursuant to which HSBC Asia Pacific may compel us to purchase, at the lesser of fair value or a net revenue multiple, additional GPAP shares from HSBC Asia
Pacific (the “Put Option”). HSBC Asia Pacific may exercise the Put Option on the fifth anniversary of the closing of the acquisition (July 24, 2011) and on each anniversary thereafter. By exercising the Put Option, HSBC Asia
Pacific can require us to purchase, on an annual basis, up to 15% of the total issued shares of GPAP. HSBC Asia Pacific did not exercise the Put Option as of July 24, 2011. We estimate the maximum total redemption amount of the
redeemable noncontrolling interest under the Put Option would be $133.9 million as of May 31, 2011, $45.6 million of which was puttable to us on July 24, 2011. We have adjusted our redeemable noncontrolling interest to reflect the maximum
redemption amount as of May 31, 2011 on our consolidated balance sheet.



Disposition



During fiscal 2009, we sold a 20% interest in Global Payments Credit Services (“GPCS”), a leading credit information company in Russia, to Equifax Decision Systems, BV (“Equifax”) for
$3.0 million in cash (the “GPCS sale”). Due to capital contribution requirements included in the GPCS shareholders agreement, we initially deferred the gain on the sale of the interest. The capital contributions requirement expired on
September 1, 2010. Accordingly, the total deferred gain of $2.6 million was recognized during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 and is included in interest and other income in our consolidated statements of income.







Index to Financial Statements

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NOTE 14—SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION



Supplemental cash flow disclosures and
non-cash investing and financing activities for the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:



201120102009(in thousands)Supplemental cash flow information:Income taxes paid, net of refunds$44,254$72,649$87,591Interest paid$15,537$12,728$10,425Accrued liability for repurchase of common stock—$1,920—Financing receivables:Investment in equipment for financing leases$(54)$(1,932)—Principal collections from customers – financing leases2,1161,753—Net decrease (increase) in financing receivables$2,062$(179)—



NOTE 15—QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)



Summarized quarterly results for the
years ended May 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands, except per share data) are as follows:



Quarter EndedAugust 31November 30February 28May 312011:Revenues$440,138$443,526$456,382$519,754Operating income82,10783,14378,19988,143Income from continuing operations, net of tax53,82258,37054,55362,384Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax(28)(487)(430)(29)Net income attributable to Global Payments49,36853,50547,78958,576Basic earnings per share0.620.670.600.73Diluted earnings per share0.610.670.590.722010:Revenues$409,932$408,951$398,535$425,050Operating income89,24388,70273,84971,485Income from continuing operations, net of tax60,25661,31450,72950,711Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax2,1884,868722(11,679)Net income attributable to Global Payments57,83162,83548,46134,190Basic earnings per share0.720.770.600.42Diluted earnings per share0.710.760.590.42







Index to Financial Statements

GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.

SCHEDULE II



Valuation & Qualifying Accounts



Column AColumn BColumn CColumn DColumn E12DescriptionBalance atBeginningof YearCharged toCosts andExpensesAcquiredBalancesUncollectibleAccountsWrite-OffBalance atEnd ofYear(in thousands)Allowance for doubtful accountsMay 31, 2009$489$1,292—$1,228$553May 31, 20105531,688—1,972269May 31, 2011269848—645472Reserve for operating losses—Merchant card processing (1)May 31, 2009$3,375$7,081—$6,949$3,507May 31, 20103,5079,593—7,2905,810May 31, 20115,8106,010—8,7183,102Reserve for sales allowances—Merchant card processing (1)May 31, 2009$489$5,041—$3,998$1,532May 31, 20101,5325,542—6,203871May 31, 20118718,888—6,4843,275Reserve for operating losses—Check guarantee processingMay 31, 2009$6,065$17,948—$19,987$4,026May 31, 20104,02614,932—14,7504,208May 31, 20114,20814,175—14,5133,870



(1)Included in settlement processing obligations



ITEM 9—CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE



None.



ITEM 9A—CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



As of May 31, 2011, management carried
out, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of May 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
applicable rules and forms and are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in those reports is accumulated and communicated to management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.







Index to Financial Statements

Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting



Our management team is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
May 31, 2011. In making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) inInternal Control-Integrated Framework.As of May 31, 2011,
management believes that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our internal control over financial
reporting, which is included in this annual report.



In connection with management’s evaluation, our management team excluded from its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2011 the internal controls relating to a subsidiary that we acquired during the year ended May 31, 2011 and for which financial results are included in our consolidated financial statements.
On December 20, 2010, we acquired a 51% majority interest in Comercia Global Payments Entidad de Pago, S.L. (“Comercia”), a newly formed company into which Caixa d’Estalvis i Pensions de Barcelona (“la Caixa”)
contributed its merchant acquiring business in Spain. We own 51% of Comercia and “la Caixa” owns the remaining 49%. The Comercia acquisition represented 2% of our consolidated fiscal 2011 revenues and 11% of total assets at May 31,
2011. This exclusion was in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission guidance that an assessment of a recently acquired business may be omitted in management’s report on internal controls over financial reporting in the year of
acquisition.



Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent
limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting
also can be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Due to such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial
reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, such risk.



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



There were no changes in our internal control over financial
reporting or in other factors that occurred during the quarter ended May 31, 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



ITEM 9B—OTHER INFORMATION



None.







Index to Financial Statements

PART III



ITEM 10—DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE



We incorporate by reference in this
Item 10 information about our directors and our corporate governance contained under the headings “Certain Information Concerning the Nominees and Directors,” “Other Information About the Board and its Committees” and
information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 by our directors and executive officers under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” from our proxy statement to
be delivered in connection with our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on September 27, 2011.



Set forth below is information relating to our executive officers. There is no family relationship between any of our executive officers
or directors and there are no arrangements or understandings between any of our executive officers or directors and any other person pursuant to which any of them was elected an officer or director, other than arrangements or understandings with our
directors or officers acting solely in their capacities as such. Our executive officers serve at the pleasure of our Board of Directors.





NameAgeCurrent Position (s)Position with Global Payments andOther Principal Business Affiliations

Paul R. Garcia59Chairman of the Board ofDirectors and ChiefExecutive OfficerChairman of the Board of Directors (since October 2002); Chief Executive Officer of Global Payments (since February 2001); Chief Executive Officer of NDC eCommerce (July 1999
– January 2001); President and Chief Executive Officer of Productivity Point International (March 1997 – September 1998); Group President of First Data Card Services (1995–1997); Chief Executive Officer of National Bancard Corporation
(NaBANCO) (1989–1995).



Jeffrey S. Sloan44PresidentPresident, Global Payments Inc. (since June 2010); Partner, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (December 2004 – May 2010) ; Managing
Director, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (December 2001 – November 2004); Vice President, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.(September 1998 –
November 2001).



David E. Mangum45Executive Vice Presidentand Chief Financial OfficerExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since November 2008) of Global Payments; Executive Vice President of Fiserv Corp., which acquired CheckFree Corporation in
December 2007, (December 2007 – August 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CheckFree Corporation (July 2000 to December 2007); Senior Vice President, Finance and Accounting of CheckFree Corporation (September 1999
– May 2000); Vice President, Finance and Administration, Managed Systems Division for Sterling Commerce, Inc. (July 1998 – September 1999)



Joseph C. Hyde37President - InternationalPresident - International (since November 2008); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (October 2005 – November 2008) of Global Payments; Senior Vice
President of Finance of Global Payments (December 2001 – October 2005); Vice President of Finance of Global Payments (February 2001-December 2001); Vice President of Finance of NDC eCommerce (June 2000 – January 2001); Associate, Alvarez
& Marsal (1998–2000); Analyst, The Blackstone Group (1996 –1998).







Index to Financial Statements



NameAgeCurrent Position (s)Position with Global Payments andOther Principal Business Affiliations

Daniel C. O’Keefe45Senior Vice Presidentand Chief AccountingOfficerSenior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (since August 2008); Vice President of Accounting Policy and External Reporting of Global Payments (April 2008 – August
2008); Chief Accounting Officer of Ocwen Financial Corporation (November 2006 – April 2008); Vice President, Business Management of RBS Lynk (February 2005 – October 2006); Assistant Controller of Beazer Homes, USA Inc. (November 2002
– November 2005)



Morgan M. Schuessler41Executive VicePresident and ChiefAdministrative OfficerExecutive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer (since November 2008); Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Communications of Global Payments (June
2007 – November 2008); Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Communications of Global Payments (June 2006 – June 2007); Senior Vice President, Marketing and Corporate Communications of Global Payments (October 2005 –
June 2006); Vice President, Global Purchasing Solutions of American Express Company (February 2002 – February 2005).



Suellyn P. Tornay50Executive VicePresident and GeneralCounselExecutive Vice President (since June 2004) and General Counsel for Global Payments Inc. (since February 2001); Interim General Counsel for NDCHealth (1999–2001); Group
General Counsel, eCommerce Division of NDCHealth (1996–1999); Senior Attorney, eCommerce Division of NDCHealth (1987–1995); Associate, Powell, Goldstein, Frazer, & Murphy (1985–1987).



We have adopted a code of
ethics that applies to our senior financial officers. The senior financial officers include our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, Controller or persons performing similar functions. The code of ethics is
available in the investor information section of our website at www.globalpaymentsinc.com, and as indicated in the section entitled “Where To Find Additional Information” in Part I to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







Index to Financial Statements

ITEM 11—EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION



We incorporate by reference in this Item 11 the
information relating to executive and director compensation contained under the headings “Other Information about the Board and its Committees,” “Compensation and Other Benefits” and “Report of the Compensation
Committee” from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on September 27, 2011.



ITEM 12—SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS



We incorporate
by reference in this Item 12 the information relating to ownership of our common stock by certain persons contained under the headings “Common Stock Ownership of Management” and “Common Stock Ownership by Certain Other
Persons” from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on September 27, 2011.



We have four compensation plans under which our equity securities are authorized for issuance. The Global Payments Inc. Amended and
Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan, the Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, and Employee Stock Purchase Plan have been approved by security holders. The information in the table
below is as of May 31, 2011. For more information on these plans, see Note 11 to notes to consolidated financial statements.



Plan categoryNumber of securitiesto be issued uponexercise of outstandingoptions, warrants andrights(a)Weighted-averageexercise price ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights(b)Number of securitiesremaining available
forfuture issuance underequity compensation plans(excluding
securitiesreflected in column (a))(c)Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:2,470,456$33.003,631,902(1)Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders:———Total2,470,456$33.003,631,902(1)



(1)Also includes shares of common stock available for issuance other than upon the exercise of an option, warrant or right under the Global Payments Inc. 2000 Long-Term
Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan and an Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.



ITEM 13—CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE



We incorporate by reference in
this Item 13 the information regarding certain relationships and related transactions between us and some of our affiliates and the independence of our Board of Directors contained under the headings “Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions” and “Other Information about the Board and its Committees — Director Independence” from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on September 27,
2011.



ITEM 14—PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES



We incorporate
by reference in this Item 14 the information regarding principal accounting fees and services contained under the heading “Auditor Information” from our proxy statement to be delivered in connection with our 2011 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on September 27, 2011.







Index to Financial Statements

PART IV



ITEM 15—EXHIBITS,
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



(a) 1.    Consolidated Financial Statements



Our consolidated financial statements listed below are set
forth in “Item 8-Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report:



PageNumberReports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm49Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and 200952Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2011 and 201053Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended May 31, 2011, 2010 and
200954Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended May 
31, 2011, 2010, and 200955Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements58



(a) 2.    Financial Statement Schedules



Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts91



All other schedules to our
consolidated financial statements have been omitted because they are not required under the related instruction or are inapplicable, or because we have included the required information in our consolidated financial statements or related notes.



(a) 3.Exhibits



The following exhibits either (i) are filed with this report or (ii) have previously been filed with the SEC and are
incorporated in this Item 15 by reference to those prior filings.



3.1Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Global Payments Inc., filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 31, 2001, File
No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.3.2Fourth Amended and Restated By-laws of Global Payments Inc., filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated August 31, 2003, File No.
001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.4.1Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement dated January 26, 2001 between Global Payments Inc. and SunTrust Bank, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated February 1, 2001, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.4.2Form of certificate representing Global Payments Inc. common stock as amended, filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 10 dated December 28,
2000, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.10.1*Employment Agreement for Paul R. Garcia, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 10 dated December 28, 2000, File No.
001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.10.2*Amendment to Employment Agreement for Paul R. Garcia, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q dated February 28, 2009, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated
herein by reference







Index to Financial Statements



10.3*Employment Agreement for James G. Kelly, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K/A dated June 2, 2006, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by
reference.



10.4*Amendment to Employment Agreement for James G. Kelly, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q dated February 28, 2009, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated
herein by reference.



10.5*Amendment to Employment Agreement for James G. Kelly, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K dated April 21, 2010, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by
reference.



10.6*Amended and Restated Employment Agreement for Joseph C. Hyde dated November 3, 2008, filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q dated February 28, 2009, File No.
001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.7*Employment Agreement for Suellyn P. Tornay dated June 1, 2001, filed as Exhibit 10.23 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated May 31, 2004, File No. 001-16111,
and incorporated herein by reference.



10.8*Amendment to Employment Agreement for Suellyn P. Tornay dated June 1, 2001, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q dated February 28, 2009, File No. 001-16111,
and incorporated herein by reference.



10.9*Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated May 31, 2003, File No. 001-16111, and
incorporated herein by reference.



10.10*First Amendment to Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated March 28, 2007, filed as Exhibit 10.17 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
May 31, 2007, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.11*Second Amendment to Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated December 15, 2008 filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q dated February 28,
2009, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.12*Third Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, dated June 1, 2004, filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated May
31, 2007, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.13*Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, dated March 28, 2007 filed as Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K dated May 31, 2007, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.14*Form of Global Payments Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 10 dated December
28, 2000, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.15*Third Amended and Restated Global Payments Inc. 2005 Incentive Plan, dated December 31, 2008 filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q dated February 28, 2009,
File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.16*Form of Performance Unit Award (U.S. Officers) pursuant to the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, dated November 30, 2006, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.17*Form of Performance Unit Award (Non-U.S. Officers) pursuant to the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, dated November 30, 2006, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.







Index to Financial Statements



10.18*Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Award pursuant to the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q, dated November 30, 2006, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.19*Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Award pursuant to the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan (Hong Kong employees) filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, dated November 30, 2006, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.20*Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Award pursuant to the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan (certain Asia-Pacific employees) filed as Exhibit 10.7 to
the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, dated November 30, 2006, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.21*Form of Restricted Stock Award pursuant to the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q, dated November 30, 2006, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.22*Form of Stock-Settled Restricted Stock Unit Award pursuant to the Global Payments Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, dated November 30, 2006, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.23Amended and Restated Credit Agreement among Global Payments Direct, Inc., Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, and lenders named therein, dated November 19, 2004, filed as Exhibit
10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 23, 2004, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.24Amendment No. 1 dated November 18, 2005, to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement among Global Payments Direct, Inc., Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, and lenders named
therein, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 18, 2005, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.25Amendment No. 2 dated November 16, 2006, to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement among Global Payments Direct, Inc., Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, and lenders named
therein, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 17, 2006, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.26Amendment No. 3 dated July 21, 2009, to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement among Global Payments Direct, Inc., Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, and lenders named
therein filed as Exhibit 10.29 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated May 31, 2009, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.27Asset Purchase Agreement with HSBC Bank plc dated June 17, 2008 filed as Exhibit 10.28 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated May 31, 2008, File No. 001-16111,
and incorporated herein by reference.



10.28First Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement with HSBC Bank plc, dated June 12, 2009 filed as Exhibit 10.36 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated May 31, 2009,
File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.29Term Loan Credit Agreement dated as of June 23, 2008, among Global Payments Inc., JPMorgan Chase, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., Regions Bank and lenders
named therein, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, Term Loan Credit Agreement dated as of June 23, 2008, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by
reference.







Index to Financial Statements



10.30First Amended and Restated Marking Alliance Agreement with HSBC Bank plc, dated June 12, 2009 filed as Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated May
31, 2009, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.31Term Loan Credit Agreement dated as of July 10,2009, among Bank of America, N.A., Banc of America Securities LLC, Compass Bank, Toronto Dominion (New York) LLC, Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, SunTrust Bank, and U.S. Bank, N/A., and lenders named therein, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, Term Loan Credit Agreement dated as of June 23, 2008, File No. 001-16111
and incorporated herein by reference.



10.32Instrument of Transfer with HSBC Bank plc dated June 12, 2009 filed as Exhibit 10.41 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated May 31, 2009, File No.
001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.33*Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 18, 2009 filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 8-K dated November 18, 2009, File No. 001-16111, and
incorporated herein by reference.



10.34*Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan dated June 3, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.35*Key Position Agreement for Paul R. Garcia, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K dated January 6, 2010, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by
reference.



10.36*Employment Agreement for Morgan Schuessler, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated August 31, 2010, File No. 001-16111, and
incorporated herein by reference.



10.37*Amendment to Employment Agreement for Morgan Schuessler (Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code), filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
dated August 31, 2010, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.38*Second Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-Q dated
August 31, 2010, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.39*Third Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated 2000 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-Q dated
August 31, 2010, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.40*Form of Global Payments Inc. 2010 Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (Director Subplan), filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated
August 31, 2010, File No. 001-16111, and incorporated herein by reference.



10.41Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of Credit Agreement dated, among Global Payments Inc. and a syndicate of financial institutions, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, Credit Agreement dated as Credit Agreement dated, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



14Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, filed as Exhibit 14 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K dated May 31, 2004, File No. 001-16111 and incorporated
herein by reference.



18Preferability Letter from Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm filed as Exhibit 18 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated February 28, 2006, File
No. 001-16111 and incorporated herein by reference.



21**List of Subsidiaries



23.1**Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm



31.1**Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of CEO







Index to Financial Statements

31.2**Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of CFO32**CEO and CFO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350, as adopted pursuant to § 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.101The following financial information from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (“Extensible Business Reporting
Language”) and furnished electronically herewith: (i) the Consolidated Statements of Income; (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets; (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Changes
in Equity; and (v) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



*Compensatory management agreement

**Filed with this report



(b)Exhibits



See the “Index to Exhibits” on page 96.



(c)Financial Statement Schedules



See Item 15(a) (2) above.







Index to Financial Statements

SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Global Payments Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on July 25, 2011.



GLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.By:/s/    PAULR.
GARCIAPaul R. GarciaChairman of the Board of Directors andChief Executive Officer(Principal Executive Officer)By:/s/    DAVIDE.
MANGUMDavid E. MangumExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer(Principal Financial Officer)By:/s/    DANIELC.
O’KEEFEDaniel C. O’KeefeSenior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer(Principal Accounting Officer)



Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by Registrantthe following persons on behalf of Global Payments Inc. and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



SignatureTitleDate/S/    PAULR.
GARCIAChairman of the BoardJuly 25, 2011Paul R. Garcia/S/    WILLIAMI
JACOBSLead DirectorJuly 25, 2011William I Jacobs/S/    EDWINH. BURBA,
JR.DirectorJuly 25, 2011Edwin H. Burba, Jr./S/    ALEXW. (PETE)
HARTDirectorJuly 25, 2011Alex W. (Pete) Hart/S/    RAYMONDL.
KILLIANDirectorJuly 25, 2011Raymond L. Killian/S/    RUTHANNMARSHALLRuth Ann
MarshallDirectorJuly 25, 2011/S/    ALANM.
SILBERSTEINDirectorJuly 25, 2011Alan M. Silberstein/S/    MICHAELW.
TRAPPDirectorJuly 25, 2011Michael W. Trapp/S/    GERALDJ.
WILKINSGerald J. WilkinsDirectorJuly 25, 2011




Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsGLOBAL PAYMENTS INC.FORM 10-KINDEX TO EXHIBITSExhibitNumbersDescription21List of Subsidiaries23.1Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm31.1Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of CEO31.2Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of CFO32CEO and CFO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1350, as adopted pursuant to § 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.102

