ITEM 1A—RISK FACTORS



Our revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept Visa
cards and MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued Visa and MasterCard registration and financial institution sponsorship.



In order to provide our Visa and MasterCard transaction processing services, we must be registered as a merchant processor of MasterCard
and Visa. These designations are dependent upon our being sponsored by member clearing banks of both organizations. If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those
services or we would need to establish our own wholly owned financial institution in such region that could serve as a sponsor, either of which could prove to be difficult and/or more expensive. If we are unable to find a replacement financial
institution to provide sponsorship (whether through a third party or through the establishment of our own wholly owned financial institution) we may no longer be able to provide processing services to the affected customers which would negatively
impact our revenues and earnings.



In June 2010,
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, CIBC, provided us with notice that it would not renew our agreement with them, under which CIBC provides sponsorship for Visa in Canada, after the expiration of the initial ten year term. As a result, our Canadian
Visa sponsorship will expire in March 2011. We are pursuing alternatives to CIBC’s sponsorship, including filing an application with the Canadian regulatory authorities for the formation of a wholly owned loan company in Canada which
could serve as our financial institution sponsor and negotiating with other financial institutions. The failure to establish a wholly owned loan company that can serve as our Visa sponsor in Canada or to secure a new sponsorship relationship with
another financial institution that would replace the arrangement that we currently have with CIBC would likely result in the loss of Visa merchant customers in Canada and lead to a material reduction in our revenues and earnings.



If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the card
networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. If our merchants or ISOs incur fines or penalties that we cannot collect, we could end up bearing them.



In order to provide our transaction processing services,
several of our subsidiaries are registered with Visa and MasterCard as service providers for member institutions and with other networks. As such, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or
penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by banks that own their stock and, in the case of Discover by the card issuers, and some
of those banks and issuers are our competitors with respect to these processing services. The termination of our registrations or our status as a service provider, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including
interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
results and financial condition. If a merchant or an ISO fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the card associations and networks, it could be subject to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or
networks. If we cannot collect such amounts from the applicable merchant or ISO, we could end up bearing such fines or penalties, resulting in lower earnings for us.



Security breaches could harm our reputation and adversely affect future
earnings



We collect and store sensitive data
about merchants, including names, addresses, social security numbers, drivers’ license numbers, and checking account numbers. In addition, we maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including bankcard numbers,
in order to process the transactions and for fraud prevention. We process that data and deliver our products and services by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated both by us and by third party service providers.
Although plans and procedures are in place to protect this sensitive data, we cannot be certain that our measures will be successful and will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats designed to breach our systems in
order to gain access to confidential information or our intellectual property.







Index to Financial Statements

A security breach or other misuse of such data could harm our reputation and deter customers
from using our products and services, increase our operating expenses in order to correct the breaches or failures, expose us to unbudgeted or uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, result in the imposition of penalties and
fines under state, federal and foreign laws or by the card networks, and adversely affect our continued card network registration and financial institution sponsorship.



Our systems and our third-party providers’ systems may fail which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business, increase our
costs and expose us to liability.



We depend
on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems, software, data center and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party
providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist acts, war, unauthorized entry, human error, and computer viruses or other defects. Our property
and business interruption insurance may not be applicable or adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions,
telecommunications failures or other difficulties could result in loss of revenue, loss of merchants, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities, negative publicity,
additional operating and development costs, and/or diversion of technical and other resources. We perform the vast majority of disaster recovery operations ourselves, though we utilize select third parties for some aspects of recovery. To the extent
we outsource our disaster recovery, we are at risk of the vendor’s unresponsiveness in the event of breakdowns in our systems.



Utility and system interruptions could adversely affect our operations.



In order to process transactions promptly, our computer
equipment and network servers must be functional on a 24-hour basis, which requires access to telecommunications facilities and the availability of electricity, which are susceptible to disruption. Any resulting disruptions in our processing
services could cause us to incur substantial additional expense and the loss of customers, which could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial condition.



We may experience software defects, undetected errors, and development delays, which could damage customer relations, decrease our
potential profitability and expose us to liability.



Our products are based on sophisticated software and computing systems that often encounter development delays, and the underlying
software may contain undetected errors or defects. Defects in our software products and errors or delays in our processing of electronic transactions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our
other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential customers, harm to our reputation, or exposure to liability claims.



In addition, we rely on technologies supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Loss of key Independent Sales Organizations could reduce our revenue growth.



Our ISO sales channel, which purchases and resells our
end-to-end services to its own portfolio of merchant customers, is a strong contributor to our revenue growth in our North America merchant services segment. If an ISO switches to another transaction processor, shuts down or becomes insolvent, we
will no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO, all of which could negatively affect our revenues and earnings.







Index to Financial Statements

Risks associated with operations outside the United States could adversely affect our business, financial
position and results of operations.



We have
a number of foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is their local currency. We are subject to the risk that currency exchange rates between these regions and the United States will fluctuate, potentially resulting in a loss of some of our
revenue and earnings when such amounts are exchanged into United States dollars. Volatility in currency exchange rates has affected and may continue to affect our financial results. For example, for fiscal year 2010, currency exchange rate
fluctuations increased our revenues by $16.5 million and our earnings by $0.10 per diluted share. We do not use forward contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the risks associated with currency exchange risk.



In addition, in certain of the jurisdictions in which we
operate, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign currency into United States dollars or limit our ability to freely move currency in or out of particular jurisdictions. The
occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business.



Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and operational resources than we do, which may give them an advantage in our
market with respect to the pricing of our products and services offered to our customers, our ability to develop new technologies, and our ability to complete acquisitions.



We operate in the electronic payments market, which is
highly competitive. Our primary competitors in these markets include other independent processors, as well as financial institutions, independent sales organizations, and, potentially, card networks. Many of our competitors are companies who are
larger than we are and have greater financial and operational resources than we have. In addition, our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a
bank for registration with the card networks. These factors may allow them to offer better pricing terms to customers, which could result in a loss of our potential or current customers or could force us to lower our prices as well. Either of these
actions could have a significant effect on our revenues and earnings.



In addition, our competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources than we can to the development of new
technologies, including internet payment processing services that provide improved operating functionality and features to their product and service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render our product and services offerings
less desirable to customers, again resulting in the loss of customers or a reduction in the price we could demand for our offerings. Lastly, our competitors may be willing or able to pay more than us for acquisitions, which may cause us to lose
certain acquisitions that we would otherwise desire to complete.



We are subject to the business cycles and credit risk of our merchant customers and our independent sales organizations.



The current recessionary economic environment could affect
our merchants through a higher rate of bankruptcy filings, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our merchants are liable for any charges properly reversed by the card issuer on behalf of the cardholder. Our merchants and ISOs are also
liable for any fines, or penalties, that may be assessed by any card networks. In the event, however, that we are not able to collect such amounts from the merchants or ISOs, due to merchant fraud, breach of contract, insolvency, bankruptcy or any
other reason, we may be liable for any such charges, resulting in lower earnings for us.



Risks associated with reduced levels of consumer spending could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.



Significant portions of our revenue and earnings are derived
from fees from processing consumer credit card and debit card transactions. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A
general







Index to Financial Statements

reduction in consumer spending in the United States or any other country where we do business could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. For example, in fiscal year 2010 compared to the
prior year, our United States direct credit card average dollar value of transaction, or average ticket, decreased by approximately 8%. We believe this decline, while partially due to a shift toward smaller merchants added through our ISOs, was in
part driven by lower consumer spending as a result of a weakened economy. A further weakening in the economy could also force retailers to close resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Additionally, credit
card issuers have been reducing credit limits, closing accounts, and are more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards.



We incur chargeback liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers. We cannot accurately
anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.



In the event a billing dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally
“charged back” to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant’s account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant
refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise
future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants may adversely
affect our financial condition and results of operations.



Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.



We have potential liability for fraudulent bankcard
transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit bankcard or card number to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid bankcard, or
intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit and fraud. While we have systems and
procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of fraud, we cannot assure the effectiveness of these measures. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would
increase our chargeback liability or other liability. Increases in chargebacks or other liability could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.



In order to remain competitive and to continue to increase our revenues
and earnings, we must continually update our products and services, a process which could result in increased research and development costs in excess of historical levels and the loss of revenues, earnings and customers if the new products and
services do not perform as intended or are not accepted in the marketplace.



The electronic payments market in which we compete is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. These markets are
characterized by technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of research and development projects including the
development of a new front-end platform for electronic payments processing. These projects carry the risks associated with any research and development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance problems. In the electronic
payments markets these risks are even more acute. Our markets are constantly experiencing rapid technological change. Any delay in the delivery of new products or services or the failure to differentiate our products and services could render them
less desirable to our customers, or possibly even obsolete. In addition, the products and services we deliver to the electronic payments markets are designed to process very complex transactions and deliver reports and other information on those
transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Any failure to deliver an effective and secure product or any performance issue that arises with a new product or service could result in







Index to Financial Statements

significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. As a result of these factors, our research and development efforts could result in increased costs that could reduce our earnings in
addition to a loss of revenue and earnings if promised new products are not timely delivered to our customers or do not perform as anticipated. We also rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for
the development and access to new technologies. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards.



In order for us to continue to grow and increase our profitability, we
must continue to expand our share of the existing electronic payments markets and also expand into new markets.



Our future growth and profitability depend upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further
expansion of these markets, the emergence of other markets for electronic transaction payment processing, and our ability to penetrate these markets. As part of our strategy to achieve this expansion, we are continually looking for acquisition
opportunities, investments and alliance relationships with other businesses that will allow us to increase our market penetration, technological capabilities, product offerings and distribution capabilities. We may not be able to successfully
identify suitable acquisition, investment and alliance candidates in the future, and if we do, they may not provide us with the benefits we anticipated. Once completed, investments and alliances may not realize the value that we expect.



Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our
ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure products and distribution
channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets. If we fail to expand into new and existing electronic payments markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings.



Any new or changes made to laws, regulations, card network rules or other
industry standards affecting our business in any of the geographic regions in which we operate may require significant development efforts or have an unfavorable impact to our financial results.



We are subject to regulations that affect the electronic
payments industry in the countries in which we operate. Regulation and proposed regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of a
license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, we are subject to
(1) the card network rules of Visa, MasterCard, and other card networks, Interac, and of various debit networks, (2) applicable privacy and information security regulations in the regions where we operate and of the card networks,
(3) the Payment Services Directive in Europe, (3) The Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card Industry in Canada (issued by Canada’s Department of Finance) (4) Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008, which requires information
returns to be made for each calendar year by merchant acquiring entities starting in 2011, to name a few. We are also subject to examination by the FFEIC (as a result of our provision of data processing services to financial institutions).



Interchange fees (which are typically paid by the
acquirer to the issuer in connection with transactions) are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory, and legislative scrutiny worldwide. For instance, in the United States, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has
recently been signed into law to regulate the fees charged or received by issuers for processing debit transactions. Regulatory actions such as these, even if not directed at us, may require significant efforts to change our systems and products and
may require changes to how we price our services to customers. We cannot predict the impact of any of these changes on our operations and financial condition.



Changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on our business.
In addition, even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our business or our reputation.







Index to Financial Statements

Increases in credit card network fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in our earnings.



From time to time, the card networks,
including Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees (interchange and assessment fees) that they charge processors such as us. We could attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of those
customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. If competitive practices prevent our passing along such increased fees to our merchant customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases thereby
increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings.



The
integration and conversion of our acquired operations, or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating both businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic
opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process.



The acquisition, integration, and conversion of businesses involves a number of risks. Core risks are in the area of valuation
(negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration and conversion (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company’s people, products, technology, and other assets to realize the
projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing
geographically separated organizations, systems, and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with foreign regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates;
enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; difficulty entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of those new markets; and general economic and political
conditions.



If the integration and conversion
process does not proceed smoothly, the following factors, amongst others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in a loss of projected synergies:



•If we are unable to successfully integrate the benefits plans, duties and responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and
employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors in the region, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration;



•If the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers to our
competitors, which would reduce our revenues and earnings; and



•The acquisition and the related integration could divert the attention of our management from other strategic matters including possible acquisitions
and alliances and planning for new product development or expansion into new electronic payments markets.



There may be a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry
in general.



If consumers do not continue to
use credit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards which is adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and
results of operations. We believe future growth in the use of credit cards will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our
profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use credit cards. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the credit card industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for our customers to
do business, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected.







Index to Financial Statements

Continued consolidation in the banking and retail industries could adversely affect our growth.



The current recessionary environment has
resulted in multiple bank failures and government-encouraged consolidation. As banks continue to consolidate, our ability to offer our services through indirect channels successfully will depend in part on whether the institutions that survive are
willing to outsource their credit and debit card processing to third party vendors and whether those institutions have pre-existing relationships with any of our competitors. Larger banks and larger merchants with greater transaction volumes may
demand lower fees which could result in lower revenues and earnings for us.



If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected.



We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number
of our key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing transaction processing industry, and the selected markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a
combination of our key personnel, would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage, and retain additional qualified management and technical personnel as we grow. We cannot
guarantee that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel.



Our financial results may be adversely affected if we have to impair our intangible assets or goodwill.



As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of
our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately 38% and 53% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of May 31, 2010 and May
31, 2009, respectively. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. We evaluate on a
regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and
such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. For example, during fiscal year 2009 we recorded a pre-tax charge of $147.7 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets of our money transfer business, which we sold
during fiscal year 2010. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.



Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or changes to enacted tax rates could adversely affect our tax expense.



We have established contingent liabilities for tax exposures
relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. These liabilities reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if
raised by a taxing authority. While we believe that the liabilities are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial
cost less than any related liability. An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively impact our results of operations.



We record deferred income taxes to reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
accounting and income tax purposes. Deferred income taxes are determined using enacted tax rates. Changes in enacted tax rates may negatively impact our results of operations. For example, we have net deferred tax assets associated with our UK
business of $87.5 million. The measurement of such deferred tax assets is based, in part, on the current enacted corporate tax in the UK of 28%. The 2010 UK budget announced June 22, 2010 includes a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 28%
to 24% over the course of four financial years from April 2011. Upon enactment of these tax rates, which is expected during the first half of our fiscal year 2011, we estimate that we will record a reduction of our UK deferred tax asset and a
corresponding increase to our deferred income tax provision of approximately $9 million.







Index to Financial Statements

We may become subject to additional United States, state or foreign taxes that cannot be passed through
to our merchant services customers, in which case our earnings could be adversely affected.



Payment processing companies like us may be subject to taxation by various jurisdictions on our net income or certain portions of our fees
charged to customers for our services. Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and the taxing authorities have not yet all adopted uniform regulations on this topic. If we are required to pay such taxes and are not able to
pass the tax expense through to our merchant customers, our costs will increase, reducing our earnings.



We have structured our business in accordance with existing tax laws and interpretations of such laws which have been confirmed through
either tax rulings or opinions obtained in various jurisdictions including those related to value added taxes in Europe. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive, the amount of our cash flow, and
have a material adverse impact on our business.



Failure to
maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.



Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to
evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual
report. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.



Further, this assessment may
be complicated by any acquisitions we may complete. In the United Kingdom and certain markets in the Asia-Pacific region, HSBC performs payment processing operations and related support services pursuant to transition services agreements. We expect
that HSBC will continue to provide these services until we integrate these functions into our operations. Until we can integrate the acquisitions’ financial reporting functions into our own, we will rely on HSBC to provide financial data, such
as revenue billed to merchants, to assist us with compiling our accounting records. Accordingly, our internal controls over financial reporting could be materially affected, or are reasonably likely to be materially affected, by HSBC internal
controls and procedures. In order to mitigate this risk, we have implemented internal controls over financial reporting which monitor the accuracy of the financial data being provided by HSBC.



While we continue to dedicate resources and management time
to ensuring that we have effective controls over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the market’s perception of our business and our stock price.



Anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation and
by-laws, our rights agreement and provisions of Georgia law could delay or prevent a change of control that individual shareholders favor.



Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, our rights agreement and provisions of applicable Georgia law may discourage,
delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that shareholders may consider favorable. The provisions of our articles and by-laws, among other things:



•divide our Board of Directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms;



•limit the right of shareholders to remove directors;



•regulate how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of shareholders; and



•authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares in one or more series, without shareholder approval.







Index to Financial Statements

We may not be able to or we may decide not to pay dividends at a level anticipated by shareholders on our
common stock, which could reduce shareholder returns.



The payment of dividends on our common stock in the future is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other
factors, our earnings, stockholder’s equity, cash position, and financial condition. No assurance can be given that we will be able to or will choose to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future.



We conduct a portion of our business in various Eastern European and
Asia-Pacific countries, and the Russian Federation, where the risk of continued political, economic and regulatory change that could impact our operating results is greater than in the United States.



We expect to continue to expand our operations into various
countries in Eastern Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. Some of these countries, and other foreign countries in which we operate, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years, and the risk of new, unforeseen
changes in these countries remains greater than in the United States. In particular, changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise, could materially
adversely affect our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations.



Transmittal of data by electronic means and telecommunications is subject to specific regulation in many countries. Although these
regulations have not had a material impact on us to date, changes in these regulations, including taxation or limitations on transfers of data between countries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition or
results of operations.



