Item 1.BUSINESS

Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern Company is registered and qualified to do business under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do business as a foreign corporation under the laws of Alabama. Southern Company owns all of the outstanding common stock of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating public utility company. The traditional operating companies supply electric service in the states of Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the traditional operating companies is as follows:

Alabama Poweris a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10, 1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company, and Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence since its incorporation in 1906.

Georgia Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930 and was admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948 and in Florida on October 13, 1997.

Gulf Poweris a Florida corporation that has had a continuous existence since it was originally organized under the laws of the State of Maine on November 2, 1925. Gulf Power was admitted to do business in Florida on January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976, and in Georgia on November 20, 1984. Gulf Power became a Florida corporation after being domesticated under the laws of the State of Florida on November 2, 2005.

Mississippi Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972, was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924 and was admitted to do business in Mississippi on December 23, 1924 and in Alabama on December 7, 1962.

In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power Company, which is also an operating public utility company. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern Power Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001 and was admitted to do business in the States of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia on January 10, 2001, in the State of Mississippi on January 30, 2001, in the State of North Carolina on February 19, 2007, and in the State of South Carolina on March 31, 2009. Certain of Southern Power Company's subsidiaries are also admitted to do business in the States of California, Nevada, New Mexico, and Texas.

Southern Company also owns all of the outstanding common stock or membership interests of SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Nuclear, SCS, Southern Holdings, and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and markets these services to the public and also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Alabama Power's and Georgia Power's nuclear plants and is currently developing Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which are co-owned by Georgia Power. SCS is the Southern Company system service company providing, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary companies. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary, primarily for Southern Company's investments in leveraged leases.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. SEGCO is an operating public utility company that owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of 1,019,680 KWs at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama. Alabama Power and Georgia Power are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO's capacity and energy. Alabama Power acts as SEGCO's agent in the operation of SEGCO's units and furnishes fuel to SEGCO for its units. SEGCO also owns one 230,000 volt transmission line extending from Plant Gaston to the Georgia state line at which point connection is made with the Georgia Power transmission line system.

Southern Company's segment information is included in Note 12 to the financial statements of Southern Company in Item 8 herein.

The registrants' Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company's website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Southern Company's internet address is www.southerncompany.com.



I-1





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



The Southern Company System

Traditional Operating Companies

The traditional operating companies are vertically integrated utilities that own generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. See PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein for additional information on the traditional operating companies' generating facilities. Each company's transmission facilities are connected to the respective company's own generating plants and other sources of power (including certain generating plants owned by Southern Power) and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other traditional operating companies and SEGCO. For information on the State of Georgia's integrated transmission system, see "Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power" herein.

Agreements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems provide for capacity and energy transactions that may be entered into from time to time for reasons related to reliability or economics. Additionally, the traditional operating companies have entered into voluntary reliability agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power Coordinating Group, and Tennessee Valley Authority and with Duke Energy Progress, Inc., Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company, and Virginia Electric and Power Company, each of which provides for the establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast (including some of those referred to above) to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply. Through the SERC, the traditional operating companies are represented on the National Electric Reliability Council.

The utility assets of the traditional operating companies and certain utility assets of Southern Power Company are operated as a single integrated electric system, or power pool, pursuant to the IIC. Activities under the IIC are administered by SCS, which acts as agent for the traditional operating companies and Southern Power Company. The fundamental purpose of the power pool is to provide for the coordinated operation of the electric facilities in an effort to achieve the maximum possible economies consistent with the highest practicable reliability of service. Subject to service requirements and other operating limitations, system resources are committed and controlled through the application of centralized economic dispatch. Under the IIC, each traditional operating company and Southern Power Company retains its lowest cost energy resources for the benefit of its own customers and delivers any excess energy to the power pool for use in serving customers of other traditional operating companies or Southern Power Company or for sale by the power pool to third parties. The IIC provides for the recovery of specified costs associated with the affiliated operations thereunder, as well as the proportionate sharing of costs and revenues resulting from power pool transactions with third parties.

Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power Company, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO, and other subsidiaries have contracted with SCS to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon request, the following services: general and design engineering, operations, purchasing, accounting, finance and treasury, tax, information technology, marketing, auditing, insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless communications, and other services with respect to business and operations, construction management, and power pool transactions. Southern Power Company and SouthernLINC Wireless have also secured from the traditional operating companies certain services which are furnished at cost and, in the case of Southern Power Company, which are subject to FERC regulations.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have a contract with Southern Nuclear to operate the Southern Company system's existing nuclear plants, Plants Farley, Hatch, and Vogtle. In addition, Georgia Power has a contract with Southern Nuclear to develop, license, construct, and operate Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. See "Regulation – Nuclear Regulation" herein for additional information.

Southern Power

Southern Power Company is an electric wholesale generation subsidiary with market-based rate authority from the FERC. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern Power continually seeks opportunities to execute its strategy to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions and sales of assets, construction of new power plants, and entry into PPAs primarily with investor owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and electric cooperatives. Southern Power Company's business activities are not subject to traditional state regulation like the traditional operating companies but are subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has attempted to insulate itself from significant fuel supply, fuel transportation, and electric transmission risks by generally making such risks the responsibility of the counterparties to its PPAs. However, Southern Power's future earnings will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market and the efficient operation of its wholesale generating assets, as well as Southern Power’s ability to execute its acquisition and value creation strategy and to construct generating facilities. The term "Southern Power" when used herein refers to Southern Power Company and its subsidiaries while the term "Southern Power Company" when used herein refers only to the registrant. For additional



I-2





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



information on Southern Power's business activities, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – OVERVIEW – "Business Activities" of Southern Power in Item 7 herein.

In April 2013, Southern Power and Turner Renewable Energy, LLC (TRE), through Southern Turner Renewable Energy, LLC (STR), a jointly-owned subsidiary owned 90% by Southern Power, acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of Campo Verde Solar, LLC (Campo Verde). Campo Verde constructed and owns an approximately 139-MW solar photovoltaic facility in Southern California. The solar facility began commercial operation in October 2013 and the entire output of the plant is contracted under a 20-year PPA with San Diego Gas & Electric Company (SDG&E), a subsidiary of Sempra Energy.

Southern Power and TRE, through STR, acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of Adobe Solar, LLC (Adobe) and Macho Springs Solar, LLC (Macho Springs) on April 17, 2014 and May 22, 2014, respectively. The Adobe and Macho Springs solar facilities began commercial operation in May 2014 with the approximate 20-MW Adobe solar photovoltaic facility serving a 20-year PPA with Southern California Edison Company and the approximate 50-MW Macho Springs solar photovoltaic facility serving a 20-year PPA with El Paso Electric Company.

On October 22, 2014, Southern Power, through its subsidiaries Southern Renewable Partnerships, LLC and SG2 Holdings, LLC (SG2 Holdings), acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of SG2 Imperial Valley, LLC (Imperial Valley). Southern Power owns 100% of the class A membership interests of SG2 Holdings and is entitled to 51% of all cash distributions from SG2 Holdings, and First Solar, Inc. indirectly owns 100% of the class B membership interests of SG2 Holdings and is entitled to 49% of all cash distributions from SG2 Holdings. In addition, Southern Power is entitled to substantially all of the federal tax benefits with respect to the transaction. Imperial Valley constructed and owns an approximately 150-MW solar photovoltaic facility in Southern California. The solar facility began commercial operation on November 26, 2014, and the entire output of the plant is contracted under a 25-year PPA with SDG&E.

In December 2014, Southern Power announced that it will build an approximately 131-MW solar photovoltaic facility in Taylor County, Georgia. Construction of the facility is expected to begin in September 2015. Commercial operation is scheduled to begin in the fourth quarter 2016, and the entire output of the facility is contracted under separate 25-year PPAs with Cobb EMC, Flint EMC, and Sawnee EMC.

On February 19, 2015, Southern Power acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of Decatur Parkway Solar Project, LLC and Decatur County Solar Project, LLC from TradeWind Energy, Inc. as part of Southern Power’s plan to build two solar photovoltaic facilities, the Decatur Parkway Solar Project and the Decatur County Solar Project. These two projects, approximately 80 MWs and 19 MWs, respectively, will be constructed on separate sites in Decatur County, Georgia. The construction of the Decatur Parkway Solar Project commenced in February 2015 while the construction of the Decatur County Solar Project is expected to commence in June 2015. Both projects are expected to begin commercial operation in late 2015. The entire output of the Decatur Parkway Solar Project is contracted under a 25-year PPA with Georgia Power and the entire output of the Decatur Country Solar Project is contracted under a 20-year PPA with Georgia Power. The total estimated cost of the facilities is expected to be between $200 million and $220 million, which includes the acquisition price for all of the outstanding membership interests of Decatur Parkway Solar Project, LLC and Decatur County Solar Project, LLC from Tradewind Energy, Inc.

On February 24, 2015, Southern Power, through its wholly owned subsidiary SRE, entered into a purchase agreement with Kay Wind Holdings, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apex Clean Energy Holdings, LLC, the developer of the project, to acquire all of the outstanding membership interests of Kay Wind, LLC (Kay Wind) for approximately $492 million, with potential purchase price adjustments based on performance testing. Kay Wind is constructing an approximately 299 MW wind facility in Kay County, Oklahoma. The wind facility is expected to begin commercial operation in late 2015, and the entire output of the facility is contracted under separate 20-year PPAs with Westar Energy, Inc. and Grand River Dam Authority. The acquisition is expected to close in the fourth quarter 2015 subject to Kay Wind achieving certain financing, construction, and project milestones, and various customary conditions to closing.

See Note 2 to the financial statements of Southern Power in Item 8 herein for additional information regarding Southern Power's acquisitions.

As of December 31, 2014, Southern Power had 9,074 MWs of nameplate capacity in commercial operation, after taking into consideration its equity ownership percentage of the solar facilities. Taking into account the PPAs and capacity from the Taylor County and Decatur County solar projects, as well as the acquisition of Kay Wind, all as discussed above, Southern Power had an average of 77% of its available capacity covered for the next five years (2015 through 2019) and an average of 70% of its available capacity covered for the next 10 years (2015 through 2024).

Southern Power’s natural gas and biomass sales are primarily through long-term PPAs. Southern Power’s natural gas PPAs consist of two types of agreements. The first type, referred to as a unit or block sale, is a customer purchase from a dedicated plant unit where all or a portion of the generation from that unit is reserved for that customer. Southern Power typically has the



I-3





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



ability to serve the unit or block sale customer from an alternate resource. The second type, referred to as requirements service, provides that Southern Power serve the customer’s capacity and energy requirements from a combination of the customer’s own generating units and from Southern Power resources not dedicated to serve unit or block sales. Southern Power has rights to purchase power provided by the requirements customers’ resources when economically viable.

Southern Power’s solar sales are through long-term PPAs. Each of Southern Power’s solar PPAs is a customer purchase from a dedicated solar facility where the customer purchases the entire energy output of the facility.

The following tables set forth Southern Power’s existing PPAs as of December 31, 2014:

Block Sales PPAs





Facility/SourceCounterpartyMWsContract Term

Addison Unit 1MEAG Power150through April 2029

Addison Units 2 and 4Georgia Power296Jan. 2015 – May 2030

Addison Unit 3Georgia Energy Cooperative150through May 2030

Cleveland County Unit 1NCEMC(1)45-180through December 2036

Cleveland County Unit 2NCEMC(1)180through December 2036

Cleveland County Unit 3NCMPA1(2)180through December 2031

Dahlberg Units 1, 3 and 5Cobb EMC225Jan. 2016 – Dec. 2022

Dahlberg Units 2, 6, 8 and 10Georgia Power298through May 2025

Dahlberg Unit 4Georgia Power75Jan. 2015 – May 2030

Franklin Unit 1Florida Power & Light Co.190through December 2015

Franklin Unit 1Duke Energy Florida, Inc.350through May 2016

Franklin Unit 1Duke Energy Florida, Inc.434June 2016 – May 2021

Franklin Unit 2Morgan Stanley Capital Group250Jan. 2016 – Dec. 2025

Franklin Unit 2Jackson EMC60-65Jan. 2016  – Dec. 2035

Franklin Unit 2GreyStone Power Corporation35-40Jan. 2016  – Dec. 2035

Franklin Unit 2Cobb EMC100Jan. 2016 – Dec. 2022

Franklin Unit 3Constellation Energy628through December 2015

Harris Unit 1Florida Power & Light Co.600through December 2015

Harris Unit 1Georgia Power(3)638June 2015 – May 2030

Harris Unit 2Georgia Power636through May 2019

NacogdochesCity of Austin, Texas100through May 2032

NCEMC PPA(4)EnergyUnited100through December 2021

Oleander Unit 1Tampa Electric Company155through December 2015

Oleander Units 2, 3 and 4Seminole Electric Cooperative465through May 2021

Oleander Unit 5FMPA160through December 2027

Rowan CT Unit 1NCMPA1(2)100-150through December 2030

Rowan CT Unit 3EnergyUnited113Jan. 2015 – December 2023

Rowan CC Unit 4NCMPA1(2)50through December 2015

Rowan CC Unit 4EnergyUnited0-274through December 2025

Rowan CC Unit 4Duke Energy Progress, Inc.150through December 2019

Rowan CC Unit 4PJM Auction(5)200June 2016 – May 2017

Stanton Unit AOUC341through September 2033

Stanton Unit AFMPA85through September 2033

Wansley Unit 6Georgia Power568through May 2017

(1)North Carolina Electric Membership Corporation (NCEMC)



I-4





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



(2)North Carolina Municipal Power Agency (NCMPA)

(3)Georgia Power will be served by Plant Franklin Unit 2 from June 2015 through December 2015.

(4)Represents sale of power purchased from NCEMC under a PPA.

(5)Pennsylvania, Jersey, Maryland Power Pool

Requirements Services PPAs

CounterpartyMWsContract TermNine Georgia EMCs239-358(1)through December 2024Sawnee EMC117-422(1)through December 2027Cobb EMC26-210(1)through December 2015Cobb EMC26-210(1)Jan. 2016 - Dec. 2025Flint EMC131-210(1)through December 2024City of Dalton, Georgia—(1)through December 2017EnergyUnited99-236(1)through December 2025City of Seneca, South Carolina30through June 2015

_______________________________________

(1)Represents a range of forecasted incremental capacity needs over the contract term.

Solar PPAs

FacilityCounterpartyMWs(1)Contract TermAdobe(2)Southern California Edison Company20through April 2034Apex(2)Nevada Power Company20through November 2037Campo Verde(2)San Diego Gas & Electric Company139through October 2033Cimarron(2)Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc.30through November 2035Granville(2)Duke Energy Progress, Inc.2.5through November 2032Imperial Valley(3)SDG&E150through October 2039Macho Springs(2)El Paso Energy50through April 2034Spectrum(2)Nevada Power Company30through December 2038Taylor CountyCobb EMC101fourth quarter 2016 - 2041Taylor CountyFlint EMC15fourth quarter 2016 - 2041Taylor CountySawnee EMC15fourth quarter 2016 - 2041

_______________________________________

(1)MWs shown are for 100% of the PPA, which is based on the demonstrated capacity of the facility.

(2)Southern Power’s equity interest in these facilities is 90%.

(3)Southern Power's equity interest in this facility is 51%.

Purchased Power

Facility/SourceCounterpartyMWsContract TermSandersvilleAL Sandersville Holdings, LLC280through December 2015NCEMCNCEMC100through December 2021

See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Power Sales Agreements" and "Acquisitions" of Southern Power in Item 7 herein and Note 2 to the financial statements of Southern Power in Item 8 herein for additional information.



I-5





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



For the year ended December 31, 2014, Southern Power derived approximately 10.1% of its revenues from sales to Florida Power & Light Company, approximately 9.7% of its revenues from sales to Georgia Power, and approximately 9.1% of its revenues from sales to Duke Energy Corporation.

Other Businesses

Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary, primarily for Southern Company's investments in leveraged leases.

SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and also markets these services to the public. SouthernLINC Wireless delivers multiple wireless communication options including push to talk, cellular service, text messaging, wireless internet access, and wireless data. Its system covers approximately 127,000 square miles in the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless also provides fiber cable services within the Southeast through its subsidiary, Southern Telecom, Inc.

These efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities offer potential returns exceeding those of rate-regulated operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of risk.



Construction Programs

The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. For estimated construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2015 through 2017, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY – "Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations" of Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power in Item 7 herein. The Southern Company system's construction program consists of capital investment and capital expenditures to comply with environmental statutes and regulations. In 2015, the construction program is expected to be apportioned approximately as follows:

SouthernCompanysystem *AlabamaPowerGeorgiaPowerGulfPowerMississippiPower(in millions)New Generation$1,295$—$494$—$801Environmental Compliance**1,03542034712794Generation Maintenance9583954714629Transmission6411803962440Distribution7863123844841Nuclear Fuel277125152——General Plant27710314518115,2691,5352,3892631,016Southern Power***1,395————Other subsidiaries64————Total$6,728$1,535$2,389$263$1,016

*These amounts include the amounts for the traditional operating companies (as detailed in the table above) as well as the amounts for Southern Power and the other subsidiaries. See "Other Businesses" herein for additional information.**Reflects cost estimates for environmental regulations. These estimated expenditures do not include any potential compliance costs that may arise from the EPA’s proposed rules that would limit CO2emissions from new, existing, and modified or reconstructed fossil-fuel-fired electric generating units. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations" and FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY – "Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations" of Southern Company and each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for additional information.***Includes approximately $1.3 billion for potential acquisitions and/or construction of new generating facilities.

The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; changes in load projections; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; changes in generating plants, including unit retirements and replacements and adding or changing fuel sources at existing units, to meet regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; PSC approvals; changes in the expected environmental



I-6



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



compliance program; changes in legislation; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; project scope and design changes; storm impacts; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. Additionally, planned expenditures for plant acquisitions may vary due to market opportunities and Southern Power's ability to execute its growth strategy.

In addition, the construction program includes the development and construction of new generating facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed, including first-of-a-kind technology, which may result in revised estimates during construction. The ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the development and construction of new facilities is subject to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, labor costs and productivity, adverse weather conditions, shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, contractor or supplier delay, non-performance under construction or other agreements, operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs, unforeseen engineering or design problems, start-up activities (including major equipment failure and system integration), and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by any PSC).

See "Regulation – Environmental Statutes and Regulations" herein for additional information with respect to certain existing and proposed environmental requirements and PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional information concerning Alabama Power's, Georgia Power's, and Southern Power's joint ownership of certain generating units and related facilities with certain non-affiliated utilities. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Georgia Power under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" and "Retail Regulatory Matters – Nuclear Construction," respectively, in Item 8 herein for additional information regarding Georgia Power’s construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Also see Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Mississippi Power under "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle" in Item 8 herein for additional information regarding Mississippi Power’s construction of the Kemper IGCC.



Financing Programs

See each of the registrant's MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY in Item 7 herein and Note 6 to the financial statements of each registrant in Item 8 herein for information concerning financing programs.



Fuel Supply

The traditional operating companies' and SEGCO's supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas and coal. Southern Power's supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – "Electricity Business – Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses" of Southern Company and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – "Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses" of each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for information regarding the electricity generated and the average cost of fuel in cents per net KWH generated for the years 2012 through 2014.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power Company, has agreements in place for the natural gas burn requirements of the Southern Company system. For 2015, SCS has contracted for 446 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply under agreements with remaining terms up to 15 years. In addition to natural gas supply, SCS has contracts in place for both firm natural gas transportation and storage. Management believes these contracts provide sufficient natural gas supplies, transportation, and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company system's natural gas generating units.



I-7



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Alabama Power and Georgia Power have numerous contracts covering a portion of their nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services, and fuel fabrication. These contracts have varying expiration dates and most of them are for less than 10 years. Management believes sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment of normal operations of the Southern Company system's nuclear generating units.

Changes in fuel prices to the traditional operating companies are generally reflected in fuel adjustment clauses contained in rate schedules. See "Rate Matters – Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans" herein for additional information. Southern Power's PPAs (excluding solar) generally provide that the counterparty is responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE, that provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power have pursued and are pursuing legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power under "Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs" in Item 8 herein for additional information.



Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power

The territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service comprises most of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the northwestern portion of Florida and southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems that obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the traditional operating companies. As of December 31, 2014, the territory had an area of approximately 120,000 square miles and an estimated population of approximately 16 million. Southern Power sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market primarily to investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and electric cooperatives.

Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity, at retail in approximately 400 cities and towns (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery, and Tuscaloosa), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to 14 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly through sales to Alabama Municipal Electric Authority, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. Alabama Power owns coal reserves near its Plant Gorgas and uses the output of coal from the reserves in its generating plants. Alabama Power also sells, and cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances.

Georgia Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia, at retail in over 600 communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome, and Savannah), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to OPC, MEAG Power, Dalton, various EMCs, and non-affiliated utilities.

Gulf Power is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity, at retail in 71 communities (including Pensacola, Panama City, and Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to a non-affiliated utility.

Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity within 23 counties in southeastern Mississippi, at retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian, and Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric distribution cooperative associations, and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

For information relating to KWH sales by customer classification for the traditional operating companies, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of revenues for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power, reference is made to Item 7 herein.

The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or corporations to enable them to provide electric service to customers in rural sections of the country. As of December 31, 2014, there were 71 electric cooperative organizations operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

One of these organizations, PowerSouth, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems, and other customers in south Alabama and northwest Florida. As of December 31, 2014, PowerSouth owned generating units with approximately 2,094 MWs of nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in Alabama Power's Plant Miller Units 1 and 2. PowerSouth's facilities were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts requiring distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from PowerSouth to the extent such energy is available. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for details of Alabama Power's joint-ownership with PowerSouth of a portion of Plant Miller.



I-8



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Alabama Power and Gulf Power have entered into separate agreements with PowerSouth involving interconnection between their respective systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from PowerSouth to certain distributing cooperatives in the service territories of Alabama Power and Gulf Power is governed by the Southern Company/PowerSouth Network Transmission Service Agreement. The rates for this service to PowerSouth are on file with the FERC.

Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within Gulf Power's service territory. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from PowerSouth and SEPA (a federal power marketing agency). A non-affiliated utility also operates within Gulf Power's service territory and purchases its full requirements from Gulf Power.

Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with SMEPA, a generating and transmitting cooperative, pursuant to which various services are provided. In 2010, Mississippi Power and SMEPA entered into an asset purchase agreement whereby SMEPA agreed to purchase a 17.5% undivided interest in the Kemper IGCC. In 2012, the Mississippi PSC approved the sale and transfer of the 17.5% undivided interest in the Kemper IGCC to SMEPA. Later in 2012, Mississippi Power and SMEPA signed an amendment to the asset purchase agreement whereby SMEPA reduced its purchase commitment percentage from a 17.5% to a 15% undivided interest in the Kemper IGCC. In March 2013, Mississippi Power and SMEPA signed an amendment to the asset purchase agreement whereby Mississippi Power and SMEPA agreed to amend the power supply agreement entered into by the parties in 2011 to reduce the capacity amounts to be received by SMEPA by half (approximately 75 MWs) at the sale and transfer of the undivided interest in the Kemper IGCC to SMEPA. In December 2013, Mississippi Power and SMEPA agreed to extend SMEPA's option to purchase through December 31, 2014.

By letter agreement dated October 6, 2014, Mississippi Power and SMEPA reached an agreement in principle on certain issues related to SMEPA's proposed purchase of a 15% undivided interest in the Kemper IGCC. The letter agreement contemplated certain amendments to the asset purchase agreement, which the parties anticipated to be incorporated into the asset purchase agreement on or before December 31, 2014. The parties agreed to further amend the asset purchase agreement as follows: (1) Mississippi Power agreed to cap at $2.88 billion the portion of the purchase price payable for development and construction costs, net of exceptions to the $2.88 billion cost cap, including the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the CO


By letter dated December 18, 2014, SMEPA notified Mississippi Power that SMEPA decided not to extend the estimated closing date in the asset purchase agreement or revise the asset purchase agreement to include the contemplated amendments; however, both parties agree that the asset purchase agreement will remain in effect until closing or until either party gives notice of termination.

The closing of this transaction is also conditioned upon execution of a joint ownership and operating agreement, the absence of material adverse effects, receipt of all construction permits, and appropriate regulatory approvals, as well as SMEPA's receipt of RUS funding. In 2012, SMEPA received a conditional loan commitment from RUS for the purchase.

As of December 31, 2014, there were 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

As of December 31, 2014, 48 municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system received their requirements through MEAG Power, which was established by a Georgia state statute in 1975. MEAG Power serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and purchases from other resources. MEAG Power also has a pseudo scheduling and services agreement with Georgia Power. Dalton serves its requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and through purchases from Georgia Power and Southern Power through a service agreement. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia Transmission Corporation, MEAG Power, and Dalton providing for the establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of all parties. The



I-9



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in proportion to its respective share of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Southern Power has PPAs with some of the traditional operating companies and with other investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, electric cooperatives, and an energy marketing firm. See "The Southern Company System - Southern Power" above and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Power Sales Agreements" of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for additional information concerning Southern Power's PPAs.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA providing for the use of the traditional operating companies' facilities at government expense to deliver to certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated to them by SEPA from certain United States government hydroelectric projects.



Competition

The electric utility industry in the United States is continuing to evolve as a result of regulatory and competitive factors. Among the early primary agents of change was the Energy Policy Act of 1992 which allowed IPPs to access a utility's transmission network in order to sell electricity to other utilities.

The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by various factors, including price, availability, technological advancements, service, and reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory, political, and environmental considerations, taxation, and supply.

The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the Territorial Electric Service Act of 1973. Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, all areas within existing municipal limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier therein. Areas outside of such municipal limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer choice of supplier by action of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth in this Act. Consistent with such standards, the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides that any new customer locating outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 KWs may exercise a one-time choice for the life of the premises to receive electric service from the supplier of its choice.

Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued "Grandfather Certificates" of public convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them to distribute electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state. The six cooperatives serve approximately 325,000 retail customers in a certificated area of approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a "Grandfather Certificate," the utility holding such certificate may, without further certification, extend its lines up to five miles; other extensions within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and necessity. Areas included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be served by the holder of the certificate, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.

Generally, the traditional operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in varying degrees from the development and deployment of alternative energy sources such as self-generation (as described below) and distributed generation technologies, as well as other factors.

Southern Power competes with investor owned utilities, IPPs, and others for wholesale energy sales primarily in the Southeastern U.S. wholesale market. The needs of this market are driven by the demands of end users in the Southeast and the generation available. Southern Power's success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and availability of Southern Power's plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price, and Southern Power's ability to contain costs.

As of December 31, 2014, Alabama Power had cogeneration contracts in effect with 10 industrial customers. Under the terms of these contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess energy generated by such companies. During 2014, Alabama Power purchased approximately 172 million KWHs from such companies at a cost of $4.6 million.

As of December 31, 2014, Georgia Power had contracts in effect with 25 small power producers whereby Georgia Power purchases their excess generation. During 2014, Georgia Power purchased 598 million KWHs from such companies at a cost of $37 million. Georgia Power also has a PPA for electricity with one cogeneration facility. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to meet minimum capacity output. During 2014, Georgia Power purchased 197 million KWHs at a cost of $23 million from this facility.



I-10



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Also during 2014, Georgia Power purchased energy from four customer-owned generating facilities. These customers provide only energy to Georgia Power and make no capacity commitment and are not dispatched by Georgia Power. During 2014, Georgia Power purchased a total of 30 million KWHs from the four customers at a cost of approximately $1 million.

As of December 31, 2014, Gulf Power had agreements in effect with various industrial, commercial, and qualifying facilities pursuant to which Gulf Power purchases "as available" energy from customer-owned generation. During 2014, Gulf Power purchased 185 million KWHs from such companies for approximately $8.1 million.

As of December 31, 2014, Mississippi Power had one cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation. During 2014, Mississippi Power did not purchase any excess generation from this customer.



Seasonality

The demand for electric power generation is affected by seasonal differences in the weather. At the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, the demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices reflecting the demand of power and available generating resources at that time. Power demand peaks can also be recorded during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder.



Regulation

State Commissions

The traditional operating companies are subject to the jurisdiction of their respective state PSCs. The PSCs have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the Mississippi PSC), and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail service territories. See "Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power" and "Rate Matters" herein for additional information.

Federal Power Act

The traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company and certain of its generation subsidiaries, and SEGCO are all public utilities engaged in wholesale sales of energy in interstate commerce and therefore are subject to the rate, financial, and accounting jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. The FERC must approve certain financings and allows an "at cost standard" for services rendered by system service companies such as SCS and Southern Nuclear. The FERC is also authorized to establish regional reliability organizations which enforce reliability standards, address impediments to the construction of transmission, and prohibit manipulative energy trading practices.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect to their hydroelectric developments. As of December 31, 2014, among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,662,400 KWs and 18 existing Georgia Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,087,296 KWs.

In 2005, Alabama Power filed two applications with the FERC for new 50-year licenses for its seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay, Mitchell, Jordan, and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior River. The FERC licenses for all of these nine projects expired in 2007. Since the FERC did not act on Alabama Power's new license applications prior to the expiration of the existing licenses, the FERC is required by law to issue annual licenses to Alabama Power, under the terms and conditions of the existing licenses, until action is taken on the new license applications.

The FERC issued annual licenses for the Coosa developments and the Warrior River developments in 2007. These annual licenses are automatically renewed each year without further action by the FERC to allow Alabama Power to continue operation of the projects under the terms of the previous license while the FERC completes review of the applications for new licenses. In 2010, the FERC issued a new 30-year license to Alabama Power for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments. Following the FERC's denials of their requests for rehearing and an unsuccessful appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, on January 30, 2015, the court dismissed the Smith Lake Improvement and Stakeholders' Association en banc rehearing request.

In June 2013, the FERC entered an order granting Alabama Power's application for relicensing of Alabama Power's seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River for 30 years. In July 2013, Alabama Power filed a petition requesting rehearing



I-11



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



of the FERC order granting the relicense seeking revisions to several conditions of the license. The Alabama Rivers Alliance, American Rivers, the Georgia Environmental Protection Division, and the Atlanta Regional Commission have also filed petitions for rehearing of the FERC order.

In 2011, Alabama Power filed an application with the FERC to relicense the Martin Dam project located on the Tallapoosa River. The Martin license expired in June 2013. Since the FERC did not act on Alabama Power's license application prior to the expiration of the existing license, the FERC issued an annual license to Alabama Power for the Martin Dam project in June 2013.

In August 2013, Alabama Power filed an application with the FERC to relicense the Holt hydroelectric project located on the Warrior River. The current Holt license will expire on August 31, 2015.

In 2012, Georgia Power filed an application with the FERC to relicense the Bartlett's Ferry project located on the Chattahoochee River near Columbus, Georgia. The FERC issued a new license on December 22, 2014.

Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky Mountain Plant, a pure pumped storage facility of 847,800 KW capacity. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the period 2023-2034 in the case of Alabama Power's projects and in the period 2020-2044 in the case of Georgia Power's projects.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the U.S. Government, by act of Congress, may take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a new licensee. In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the fair value of the property, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance therefrom of the property. The FERC may grant relicenses subject to certain requirements that could result in additional costs.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Nuclear Regulation

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Nuclear are subject to regulation by the NRC. The NRC is responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978; and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and other applicable statutes. These responsibilities also include protecting public health and safety, protecting the environment, protecting and safeguarding nuclear materials and nuclear power plants in the interest of national security, and assuring conformity with antitrust laws.

The NRC licenses for Georgia Power's Plant Hatch Units 1 and 2 expire in 2034 and 2038, respectively. The NRC licenses for Alabama Power's Plant Farley Units 1 and 2 expire in 2037 and 2041, respectively. The NRC licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 expire in 2047 and 2049, respectively.

In 2012, the NRC issued combined construction and operating licenses (COLs) for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Receipt of the COLs allowed full construction to begin. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Retail Regulatory Matters – Nuclear Construction" of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" and Georgia Power under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Nuclear Construction" in Item 8 herein for additional information.

See Notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations

The electric utilities' operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air, water, and land resources. Compliance with these existing environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions or through market-based contracts. There is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered.

Compliance with the federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been, and will continue to be, a significant focus for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, and SEGCO. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be changed or new laws and regulations may be adopted or otherwise become applicable to the Southern Company system, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, water, CCRs, global climate change,



I-12



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



or other environmental and health concerns. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters" of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for additional information about the Clean Air Act and other environmental issues, including, but not limited to, the litigation brought by the EPA under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act and proposed and final regulations related to air quality, water, greenhouse gases, and CCRs. Also see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters" of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for additional information about environmental issues and climate change regulation.

Compliance with any new federal or state legislation or regulations relating to air quality, water, CCRs, global climate change, or other environmental and health concerns could significantly affect the Southern Company system. Although new or revised environmental legislation or regulations could affect many areas of the electric utilities' operations, the full impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this time. Additionally, many of the electric utilities' commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which for some may have the potential to ultimately affect their demand for electricity. See "Construction Program" herein for additional information.



Rate Matters

Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans

The rates and service regulations of the traditional operating companies are uniform for each class of service throughout their respective retail service territories. Rates for residential electric service are generally of the block type based upon KWHs used and include minimum charges. Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are presently of the block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers' rates are generally based upon usage by the customer and include rates with special features to encourage off-peak usage. Additionally, Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms and cost of service, however, are subject to final state PSC approval.

The traditional operating companies recover their respective costs through a variety of forward-looking, cost-based rate mechanisms. Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as needed or on schedules as required by the respective PSCs. Approved environmental compliance, storm damage, and certain other costs are recovered at Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power through specific cost recovery mechanisms approved by their respective PSCs. Certain similar costs at Georgia Power are recovered through various base rate tariffs as approved by the Georgia PSC. Costs not recovered through specific cost recovery mechanisms are recovered at Alabama Power and Mississippi Power through annual, formulaic cost recovery proceedings and at Georgia Power and Gulf Power through base rate proceedings.

See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Retail Regulatory Matters" of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies under "Retail Regulatory Matters" in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters and certain cost recovery mechanisms. Also, see Note 1 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 8 herein for a discussion of recovery of fuel costs, storm damage costs, and environmental compliance costs through rate mechanisms.



I-13



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



See "Integrated Resource Planning" herein for a discussion of Georgia PSC certification of new demand-side or supply-side resources and decertification of existing supply-side resources for Georgia Power. In addition, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Retail Regulatory Matters – Nuclear Construction" of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" and Georgia Power under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Nuclear Construction" in Item 8 herein for a discussion of the Georgia Nuclear Energy Financing Act and the Georgia PSC certification of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which have allowed Georgia Power to recover financing costs for construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 during the construction period beginning in 2011.

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Mississippi Power under "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle" in Item 8 herein and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle – Rate Recovery of Kemper IGCC Costs" of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein for information on cost recovery plans and a settlement agreement between Mississippi Power and the Mississippi PSC with respect to the Kemper IGCC.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power Company and certain of its generation subsidiaries are authorized by the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate.

Gulf Power serves long-term contracts associated with Gulf Power's co-ownership of a unit with Georgia Power at Plant Scherer, covering 100% of Gulf Power's ownership of that unit in 2015, and 41% for the next five years. These capacity revenues represented 82% of Gulf Power's total wholesale capacity revenues for 2014. Gulf Power is actively pursuing replacement wholesale contracts but the expiration of current contracts could have a material negative impact on Gulf Power's earnings.

Mississippi Power serves long-term contracts with rural electric cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern Mississippi under cost-based electric tariffs which are subject to regulation by the FERC. The contracts with these wholesale customers represented 21.9% of Mississippi Power's operating revenues in 2014 and are largely subject to rolling 10-year cancellation notices.

Integrated Resource Planning

Each of the traditional operating companies continually evaluates its electric generating resources in order to ensure that it maintains a cost-effective and reliable mix of resources to meet the existing and future demand requirements of its customers. See "Environmental Statutes and Regulations" above for a discussion of existing and potential environmental regulations that may impact the future generating resource needs of the traditional operating companies.

Certain of the traditional operating companies periodically file IRPs with their respective state PSC as discussed below.

Georgia Power

Triennially, Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to meet the future electrical needs of its customers through a combination of demand-side and supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC, under state law, must certify any new demand-side or supply-side resources for Georgia Power to receive cost recovery. Once certified, the lesser of actual or certified construction costs and purchased power costs is recoverable through rates. Certified costs may be excluded from recovery only on the basis of fraud, concealment, failure to disclose a material fact, imprudence, or criminal misconduct.

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under "Retail Regulatory Matters - Georgia Power - Rate Plans" and "– Nuclear Construction" and Note 3 to the financial statements of Georgia Power under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Integrated Resource Plans," "– Renewables Development," and "– Nuclear Construction" in Item 8 herein for additional information.

Gulf Power

Annually by April 1, Gulf Power must file a 10-year site plan with the Florida PSC containing Gulf Power's estimate of its power-generating needs in the period and the general location of its proposed power plant sites. The 10-year site plans submitted by the state's electric utilities are reviewed by the Florida PSC and subsequently classified as either "suitable" or "unsuitable." The Florida PSC then reports its findings along with any suggested revisions to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection for its consideration at any subsequent electrical power plant site certification proceedings. Under Florida law, any 10-year site plans submitted by an electric utility are considered tentative information for planning purposes only and may be amended at any time at the discretion of the utility with written notification to the Florida PSC.



I-14



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Gulf Power's most recent 10-year site plan was classified by the Florida PSC as "suitable" in November 2014. Gulf Power's most recent 10-year site plan and environmental compliance plan identify environmental regulations and potential legislation or regulation that would impose mandatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations – Air Quality," "Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations – Coal Combustion Residuals," and "Environmental Matters – Global Climate Issues" of Gulf Power in Item 7 herein. Gulf Power continues to evaluate the economics of various potential planning scenarios for units at certain Gulf Power coal-fired generating plants as EPA and other regulations develop.

Subsequent to December 31, 2014, Gulf Power announced plans to retire its coal-fired generation at Plant Smith Units 1 and 2 (357 MWs) by March 31, 2016. The plant will continue to operate and produce electricity with its other generating units on site. The retirement of these units is not expected to have a material impact on the Gulf Power's financial statements. Gulf Power expects to recover through its rates the remaining book value of the retired units and certain costs associated with the retirements; however, recovery will be considered by the Florida PSC in future rate proceedings. The net book value of these units at December 31, 2014 was approximately $80 million.

Gulf Power also has determined it is not economical to add the environmental controls at Plant Scholz necessary to comply with the MATS rule and that coal-fired generation at Plant Scholz will cease by April 2015. The plant is scheduled to be fully depreciated by April 2015.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mississippi Power

Mississippi Baseload Act

In 2008, the Baseload Act was signed by the Governor of Mississippi. The Baseload Act authorizes, but does not require, the Mississippi PSC to adopt a cost recovery mechanism that includes in retail base rates, prior to and during construction, all or a portion of the prudently-incurred pre-construction and construction costs incurred by a utility in constructing a base load electric generating plant. Prior to the passage of the Baseload Act, such costs would traditionally be recovered only after the plant was placed in service. The Baseload Act also provides for periodic prudence reviews by the Mississippi PSC and prohibits the cancellation of any such generating plant without the approval of the Mississippi PSC. In the event of cancellation of the construction of the plant without approval of the Mississippi PSC, the Baseload Act authorizes the Mississippi PSC to make a public interest determination as to whether and to what extent the utility will be afforded rate recovery for costs incurred in connection with such cancelled generating plant. In February 2015, the Mississippi Supreme Court declined to rule on the constitutionality of the Baseload Act.

For information regarding Mississippi Power's construction of the Kemper IGCC, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle" of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Mississippi Power under "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle" in Item 8 herein.

For information regarding the February 2015 decision of the Mississippi Supreme Court related to the Baseload Act and the rates implemented in March 2013, see Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle – 2015 Mississippi Supreme Court Decision" and Note 3 to the financial statements of Mississippi Power under "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle - 2015 Mississippi Supreme Court Decision" in Item 8 herein.



I-15



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.



Employee Relations

The Southern Company system had a total of 26,369 employees on its payroll at December 31, 2014.

Employees at December 31, 2014Alabama Power6,935Georgia Power7,909Gulf Power1,384Mississippi Power1,478SCS4,395Southern Nuclear4,036Southern Power*0Other232Total26,369

*Southern Power has no employees. Southern Power has agreements with SCS and the traditional operating companies whereby employee services are rendered at amounts in compliance with FERC regulations.

The traditional operating companies have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW generally covering wages, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance, and construction employees.

Alabama Power has agreements with the IBEW in effect through August 15, 2019. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Georgia Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through June 30, 2016.

Gulf Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through April 15, 2019. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Mississippi Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through May 1, 2019. In 2013, Mississippi Power signed a separate agreement with the IBEW related solely to the Kemper IGCC, which is in effect through March 15, 2016.

Southern Nuclear has an agreement with the IBEW covering certain employees at Plants Hatch and Vogtle which is in effect through June 30, 2016. A five-year agreement between Southern Nuclear and the IBEW representing certain employees at Plant Farley is in effect through August 15, 2019. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

The agreements also make the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above subject to collective bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon union and company actions.



I-16





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



