Item 1.BUSINESS

Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern Company is registered and qualified to do business under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do business as a foreign corporation under the laws of Alabama. Southern Company owns all of the outstanding common stock of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating public utility company. The traditional operating companies supply electric service in the states of Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the traditional operating companies is as follows:

Alabama Poweris a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10, 1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company, and Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence since its incorporation in 1906.

Georgia Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930 and was admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948 and in Florida on October 13, 1997.

Gulf Poweris a Florida corporation that has had a continuous existence since it was originally organized under the laws of the State of Maine on November 2, 1925. Gulf Power was admitted to do business in Florida on January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976, and in Georgia on November 20, 1984. Gulf Power became a Florida corporation after being domesticated under the laws of the State of Florida on November 2, 2005.

Mississippi Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972, was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924 and was admitted to do business in Mississippi on December 23, 1924 and in Alabama on December 7, 1962.

In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power Company, which is also an operating public utility company. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern Power Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001 and was admitted to do business in the States of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia on January 10, 2001, in the State of Mississippi on January 30, 2001, in the State of North Carolina on February 19, 2007, and in the State of South Carolina on March 31, 2009. Certain of Southern Power Company's subsidiaries are also admitted to do business in the States of California, Nevada, New Mexico, and Texas.

Southern Company also owns all of the outstanding common stock or membership interests of SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Nuclear, SCS, Southern Holdings, and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and markets these services to the public and also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Alabama Power's and Georgia Power's nuclear plants and is currently developing Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which are co-owned by Georgia Power. SCS is the system service company providing, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary companies. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary, primarily for Southern Company's investments in leveraged leases.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. SEGCO is an operating public utility company that owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of 1,019,680 KWs at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama. Alabama Power and Georgia Power are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO's capacity and energy. Alabama Power acts as SEGCO's agent in the operation of SEGCO's units and furnishes fuel to SEGCO for its units. SEGCO also owns one 230,000 volt transmission line extending from Plant Gaston to the Georgia state line at which point connection is made with the Georgia Power transmission line system.

Southern Company's segment information is included in Note 12 to the financial statements of Southern Company in Item 8 herein.

The registrants' Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company's website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Southern Company's internet address is www.southerncompany.com.



I-1





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



The Southern Company System

Traditional Operating Companies

The traditional operating companies own generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. See PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein for additional information on the traditional operating companies' generating facilities. Each company's transmission facilities are connected to the respective company's own generating plants and other sources of power (including certain generating plants owned by Southern Power) and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other traditional operating companies and SEGCO. For information on the State of Georgia's integrated transmission system, see "Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power" herein.

Agreements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems provide for capacity and energy transactions that may be entered into from time to time for reasons related to reliability or economics. Additionally, the traditional operating companies have entered into voluntary reliability agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power Coordinating Group, and Tennessee Valley Authority and with Duke Energy Progress, Inc., Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company, and Virginia Electric and Power Company, each of which provides for the establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast (including some of those referred to above) to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply. Through the SERC, the traditional operating companies are represented on the National Electric Reliability Council.

The utility assets of the traditional operating companies and certain utility assets of Southern Power are operated as a single integrated electric system, or power pool, pursuant to the IIC. Activities under the IIC are administered by SCS, which acts as agent for the traditional operating companies and Southern Power Company. The fundamental purpose of the power pool is to provide for the coordinated operation of the electric facilities in an effort to achieve the maximum possible economies consistent with the highest practicable reliability of service. Subject to service requirements and other operating limitations, system resources are committed and controlled through the application of centralized economic dispatch. Under the IIC, each traditional operating company and Southern Power Company retains its lowest cost energy resources for the benefit of its own customers and delivers any excess energy to the power pool for use in serving customers of other traditional operating companies or Southern Power Company or for sale by the power pool to third parties. The IIC provides for the recovery of specified costs associated with the affiliated operations thereunder, as well as the proportionate sharing of costs and revenues resulting from power pool transactions with third parties.

Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power Company, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO, and other subsidiaries have contracted with SCS to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon request, the following services: general and design engineering, operations, purchasing, accounting, finance and treasury, tax, information technology, marketing, auditing, insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless communications, and other services with respect to business and operations, construction management, and power pool transactions. Southern Power Company and SouthernLINC Wireless have also secured from the traditional operating companies certain services which are furnished at cost and, in the case of Southern Power Company, which are subject to FERC regulations.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have a contract with Southern Nuclear to operate the Southern Company system's existing nuclear plants, Plants Farley, Hatch, and Vogtle. In addition, Georgia Power has a contract with Southern Nuclear to develop, license, construct, and operate Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. See "Regulation – Nuclear Regulation" herein for additional information.

Southern Power

Southern Power Company is an electric wholesale generation subsidiary with market-based rate authority from the FERC. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern Power continually seeks opportunities to execute its strategy to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions and sales of assets, construction of new power plants, and entry into PPAs primarily with investor owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities, and electric cooperatives. Southern Power Company's business activities are not subject to traditional state regulation like the traditional operating companies but are subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has attempted to insulate itself from significant fuel supply, fuel transportation, and electric transmission risks by generally making such risks the responsibility of the counterparties to its PPAs. However, Southern Power's future earnings will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market and the efficient operation of its wholesale generating assets. For additional information on Southern Power's business activities, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – OVERVIEW – "Business Activities" of Southern Power in Item 7 herein.



I-2





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



In June 2012, Southern Power completed construction of Plant Nacogdoches, a biomass generating plant near Sacul, Texas with a nameplate capacity of approximately 116 MWs. Nacogdoches Power, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Power Company, has a PPA covering the entire output of the plant from 2012 through 2032.

In December 2012, Southern Power completed construction of Plant Cleveland Units 1 through 4, a combustion turbine natural gas generating plant, in Cleveland County, North Carolina. The plant has a nameplate capacity of 720 MWs. Southern Power has long-term PPAs for 540 MWs of the generating capacity of the plant (180 MWs through 2031 and 360 MWs through 2036).

In 2012, Southern Power and Turner Renewable Energy, Inc. (TRE), through Southern Turner Renewable Energy LLC (STR), a jointly-owned subsidiary owned 90% by a subsidiary of Southern Power Company, acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of Apex Nevada Solar, LLC (Apex), Spectrum Nevada Solar, LLC (Spectrum), and Granville Solar, LLC (Granville). Apex owns a 20-MW solar photovoltaic facility in North Las Vegas, Nevada, which began commercial operation in July 2012. Apex has a PPA covering the entire output of the plant from 2012 through 2037. Granville owns a 2.5-MW solar photovoltaic facility in Oxford, North Carolina, which began commercial operation in October 2012. Granville has a PPA covering the entire output of the plant from 2012 through 2032. Spectrum owns a 30-MW solar photovoltaic facility in North Las Vegas, Nevada, which began commercial operation on September 23, 2013. Spectrum has a PPA covering the entire output of the plant from 2013 through 2038.

On April 23, 2013, Southern Power and TRE, through STR,  acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of Campo Verde Solar, LLC (Campo Verde). Campo Verde owns an approximately 139-MW solar facility in Southern California, which began commercial operation on October 25, 2013. The output of the plant is contracted under a 20-year PPA with San Diego Gas & Electric Company, a subsidiary of Sempra Energy.

On August 27, 2013, Southern Power and TRE, through STR, entered into a purchase agreement with Sun Edison, LLC, the developer of the project, which provides for the acquisition of all of the outstanding membership interests of Adobe Solar, LLC (Adobe) by STR. Adobe is constructing an approximately 20-MW solar generating facility in Kern County, California. The solar facility is expected to begin commercial operation in spring 2014. Southern Power's purchase of Adobe for approximately $100 million is expected to occur in spring 2014. The output of the plant is contracted under a 20-year PPA with Southern California Edison.

As of December 31, 2013, Southern Power had 8,924 MWs of nameplate capacity in commercial operation.

See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Power Sales Agreements" and "Acquisitions" of Southern Power in Item 7 herein and Note 2 to the financial statements of Southern Power in Item 8 herein for additional information.

Other Businesses

Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary, primarily for Southern Company's investments in leveraged leases.

SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and markets its services to non-affiliates within the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless delivers multiple wireless communication options including push to talk, cellular service, text messaging, wireless internet access, and wireless data. Its system covers approximately 127,000 square miles in the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast under the name Southern Telecom.

These efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities offer potential returns exceeding those of rate-regulated operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of risk.



I-3





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements







Construction Programs

The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. For estimated construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2014 through 2016, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY – "Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations" of Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power in Item 7 herein. The Southern Company system's construction program consists of capital investment and capital expenditures to comply with environmental statutes and regulations. In 2014, the construction program is expected to be apportioned approximately as follows:





SouthernCompanysystem *AlabamaPowerGeorgiaPowerGulfPowerMississippiPower(in millions)New Generation$1,148$—$658$—$490Environmental **1,457505543255154Transmission & Distribution Growth4121212542215Maintenance (Generation, Transmission, and Distribution)1,85887079210888Nuclear Fuel325141184——General Plant222971069105,4221,7342,537394757Southern Power477————Other subsidiaries163————Total$6,062$1,734$2,537$394$757

*These amounts include the amounts for the traditional operating companies (as detailed in the table above) as well as the amounts for Southern Power and the other subsidiaries. See "Other Businesses" herein for additional information.**Reflects cost estimates for environmental regulations. The Southern Company system continues to monitor the development of the EPA's proposed water and coal combustion residuals rules and to evaluate compliance options. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations" and FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY – "Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations" of Southern Company and each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for additional information.

The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; changes in load projections; changes in the expected environmental compliance program; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; changes in generating plants, including unit retirements and replacements and adding or changing fuel sources at existing units, to meet regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; PSC approvals; changes in legislation; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; project scope and design changes; storm impacts; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

In addition, the construction program includes the development and construction of new generating facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed, including “first-of-its-kind” technology which may result in revised estimates during construction. The ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the development and construction of new facilities is subject to a number of factors, including changes in labor costs and productivity factors, adverse weather conditions, shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction or other agreements, delays associated with start-up activities, including major equipment failure, system integration, and operations, and/or unforeseen engineering problems.

See "Regulation – Environmental Statutes and Regulations" herein for additional information with respect to certain existing and proposed environmental requirements and PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional



I-4



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



information concerning Alabama Power's, Georgia Power's, and Southern Power's joint ownership of certain generating units and related facilities with certain non-affiliated utilities. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Georgia Power under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" and "Retail Regulatory Matters – Nuclear Construction," respectively, for additional information regarding Georgia Power’s construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Also see Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Mississippi Power under "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle" for additional information regarding Mississippi Power’s construction of the Kemper IGCC.



Financing Programs

See each of the registrant's MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY in Item 7 herein and Note 6 to the financial statements of each registrant in Item 8 herein for information concerning financing programs.



Fuel Supply

The traditional operating companies' and SEGCO's supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas and coal. Southern Power's supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – "Electricity Business – Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses" of Southern Company and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – "Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses" of each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for information regarding the electricity generated and the average cost of fuel in cents per net KWH generated for the years 2011 through 2013.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power Company, has agreements in place for the natural gas burn requirements of the Southern Company system. For 2014, SCS has contracted for 431 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply under agreements with remaining terms up to seven years. In addition to natural gas supply, SCS has contracts in place for both firm natural gas transportation and storage. Management believes these contracts provide sufficient natural gas supplies, transportation, and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company system's natural gas generating units.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have numerous contracts covering a portion of their nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services, and fuel fabrication. These contracts have varying expiration dates and most of them are for less than 10 years. Management believes sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment of normal operations of the Southern Company system's nuclear generating units.

Changes in fuel prices to the traditional operating companies are generally reflected in fuel adjustment clauses contained in rate schedules. See "Rate Matters – Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans" herein for additional information. Southern Power's PPAs generally provide that the counterparty is responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE, that provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power have pursued and are pursuing legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power under "Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs" in Item 8 herein for additional information.



Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power

The territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service comprises most of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the northwestern portion of Florida and southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems that obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the traditional



I-5



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



operating companies. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles and an estimated population of approximately 16 million. Southern Power sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market primarily to investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and electric cooperatives.

Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity, at retail in approximately 400 cities and towns (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery, and Tuscaloosa), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to 14 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly through sales to Alabama Municipal Electric Authority, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. Alabama Power owns coal reserves near its Plant Gorgas and uses the output of coal from the reserves in its generating plants. Alabama Power also sells, and cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances.

Georgia Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia, at retail in over 600 communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome, and Savannah), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to OPC, MEAG Power, Dalton, various electric membership corporations, and non-affiliated utilities.

Gulf Power is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity, at retail in 71 communities (including Pensacola, Panama City, and Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to a non-affiliated utility.

Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity within 23 counties in southeastern Mississippi, at retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian, and Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric distribution cooperative associations, and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

For information relating to KWH sales by customer classification for the traditional operating companies, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of revenues for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power, reference is made to Item 7 herein.

The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or corporations to enable them to provide electric service to customers in rural sections of the country. There are 71 electric cooperative organizations operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

One of these organizations, PowerSouth, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems, and other customers in south Alabama and northwest Florida. PowerSouth owns generating units with approximately 2,027 MWs of nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in Alabama Power's Plant Miller Units 1 and 2. PowerSouth's facilities were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts requiring distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from PowerSouth to the extent such energy is available. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for details of Alabama Power's joint-ownership with PowerSouth of a portion of Plant Miller.

Alabama Power and Gulf Power have entered into separate agreements with PowerSouth involving interconnection between their respective systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from PowerSouth to certain distributing cooperatives in the service territories of Alabama Power and Gulf Power is governed by the Southern Company/PowerSouth Network Transmission Service Agreement. The rates for this service to PowerSouth are on file with the FERC.

Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within Gulf Power's service territory. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from PowerSouth and SEPA (a federal power marketing agency). A non-affiliated utility also operates within Gulf Power's service territory and purchases its full requirements from Gulf Power.

Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with SMEPA, a generating and transmitting cooperative, pursuant to which various services are provided. In 2010, Mississippi Power and SMEPA entered into an asset purchase agreement whereby SMEPA agreed to purchase a 17.5% undivided interest in the Kemper IGCC. In February 2012, the Mississippi PSC approved the sale and transfer of 17.5% of the Kemper IGCC to SMEPA. In June 2012, Mississippi Power and SMEPA signed an amendment to the asset purchase agreement whereby SMEPA reduced its purchase commitment percentage from a 17.5% to a 15% undivided interest in the Kemper IGCC, subject to approval by the Mississippi PSC. On March 29, 2013, Mississippi Power and SMEPA signed an amendment to the asset purchase agreement whereby Mississippi Power and SMEPA agreed to amend the PPA entered into by the parties in April 2011 to reduce the capacity amounts to be received by SMEPA by half (approximately 75 MWs) effective with the sale and transfer of an undivided interest in the Kemper IGCC to SMEPA. On December 24, 2013, Mississippi Power and SMEPA agreed to extend SMEPA's option to purchase through December 31, 2014. The sale and transfer of an interest in the Kemper IGCC to SMEPA is subject to approval by the Mississippi PSC. The closing



I-6



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



of this transaction is conditioned upon execution of a joint ownership and operating agreement, receipt of all construction permits, appropriate regulatory approvals, financing, and other conditions.

There are also 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

Forty-eight municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system receive their requirements through MEAG Power, which was established by a Georgia state statute in 1975. MEAG Power serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and purchases from other resources. MEAG Power also has a pseudo scheduling and services agreement with Georgia Power. Dalton serves its requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and through purchases from Georgia Power and Southern Power through a service agreement. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia Transmission Corporation, MEAG Power, and Dalton providing for the establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of all parties. The agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in proportion to its respective share of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Southern Power has PPAs with some of the traditional operating companies and with other investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, electric cooperatives, and an energy marketing firm. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Power Sales Agreements" of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for additional information concerning Southern Power's PPAs.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA providing for the use of the traditional operating companies' facilities at government expense to deliver to certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated to them by SEPA from certain United States government hydroelectric projects.

Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued "Grandfather Certificates" of public convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them to distribute electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state. The six cooperatives serve approximately 325,000 retail customers in a certificated area of approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a "Grandfather Certificate," the utility holding such certificate may, without further certification, extend its lines up to five miles; other extensions within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and necessity. Areas included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be served by the holder of the certificate, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.



Competition

The electric utility industry in the United States is continuing to evolve as a result of regulatory and competitive factors. Among the early primary agents of change was the Energy Policy Act of 1992 which allowed IPPs to access a utility's transmission network in order to sell electricity to other utilities.

The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by various factors, including price, availability, technological advancements, service, and reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory, political, and environmental considerations, taxation, and supply.

The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the Territorial Electric Service Act of 1973. Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, all areas within existing municipal limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier therein. Areas outside of such municipal limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer choice of supplier by action of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth in this Act. Consistent with such standards, the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides that any new customer locating outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 KWs may exercise a one-time choice for the life of the premises to receive electric service from the supplier of its choice.

Generally, the traditional operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in varying degrees from the development and deployment of alternative energy sources such as self-generation (as described below) and distributed generation technologies, as well as other factors.

Southern Power competes with investor owned utilities, IPPs, and others for wholesale energy sales primarily in the Southeastern U.S. wholesale market. The needs of this market are driven by the demands of end users in the Southeast and the



I-7



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



generation available. Southern Power's success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and availability of Southern Power's plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price, and Southern Power's ability to contain costs.

Alabama Power currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with 12 industrial customers. Under the terms of these contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess energy generated by such companies. During 2013, Alabama Power purchased approximately 151 million KWHs from such companies at a cost of $5.0 million.

Georgia Power currently has contracts in effect with 25 small power producers whereby Georgia Power purchases their excess generation. During 2013, Georgia Power purchased 393 million KWHs from such companies at a cost of $25 million. Georgia Power also has a PPA for electricity with one cogeneration facility. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to meet minimum capacity output. During 2013, Georgia Power purchased 73 million KWHs at a cost of $16 million from this facility.

Also during 2013, Georgia Power purchased energy from four customer-owned generating facilities. These customers provide only energy to Georgia Power and make no capacity commitment and are not dispatched by Georgia Power.  During 2013, Georgia Power purchased a total of 34 million KWHs from the four customers at a cost of approximately $1 million.

Gulf Power currently has agreements in effect with various industrial, commercial, and qualifying facilities pursuant to which Gulf Power purchases "as available" energy from customer-owned generation. During 2013, Gulf Power purchased 266 million KWHs from such companies for approximately $10.2 million.

Mississippi Power currently has a cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation. During 2013, Mississippi Power did not purchase any excess generation from this customer.



Seasonality

The demand for electric power generation is affected by seasonal differences in the weather. At the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, the demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices reflecting the demand of power and available generating resources at that time. Power demand peaks can also be recorded during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder.



Regulation

State Commissions

The traditional operating companies are subject to the jurisdiction of their respective state PSCs. The PSCs have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the Mississippi PSC), and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail service territories. See "Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power" and "Rate Matters" herein for additional information.

Federal Power Act

The traditional operating companies, Southern Power Company and certain of its generation subsidiaries, and SEGCO are all public utilities engaged in wholesale sales of energy in interstate commerce and therefore are subject to the rate, financial, and accounting jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. The FERC must approve certain financings and allows an "at cost standard" for services rendered by system service companies such as SCS and Southern Nuclear. The FERC is also authorized to establish regional reliability organizations which enforce reliability standards, address impediments to the construction of transmission, and prohibit manipulative energy trading practices.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect to their hydroelectric developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,662,400 KWs and 18 existing Georgia Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,087,296 KWs.

In 2005, Alabama Power filed two applications with the FERC for new 50-year licenses for its seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay, Mitchell, Jordan, and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior River. The FERC licenses for all of these nine projects expired in 2007. Since the FERC did not act on Alabama Power's new license applications prior to the expiration of the existing licenses, the FERC is required by law to issue annual licenses to Alabama Power, under the terms and conditions of the existing licenses, until action is taken on the new license applications.



I-8



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



The FERC issued annual licenses for the Coosa developments and the Warrior River developments in 2007. These annual licenses are automatically renewed each year without further action by the FERC to allow Alabama Power to continue operation of the projects under the terms of the previous license while the FERC completes review of the applications for new licenses. Though the Coosa application remains pending before the FERC, in 2010, the FERC issued a new 30 year license to Alabama Power for the Warrior River developments. In 2010, the Smith Lake Improvement and Stakeholders' Association filed a request for rehearing of the FERC order granting the new Warrior license. Following the FERC's denials of the requests for rehearings, on March 18, 2013, the Smith Lake Improvement and Stakeholders' Association filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit regarding the FERC's orders related to the Warrior River relicensing proceedings.

In 2011, Alabama Power filed an application with the FERC to relicense the Martin Dam project located on the Tallapoosa River. The Martin license expired on June 8, 2013. Since the FERC did not act on Alabama Power's license application prior to the expiration of the existing license, the FERC issued an annual license to Alabama Power for the Martin Dam project on June 18, 2013.

On August 16, 2013, Alabama Power filed an application with the FERC to relicense the Holt hydroelectric project located on the Warrior River. The current Holt license will expire on August 31, 2015.

In December 2012, Georgia Power filed an application with the FERC to relicense the Bartlett's Ferry project located on the Chattahoochee River near Columbus, Georgia. The current Bartlett's Ferry license will expire on December 14, 2014.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "FERC Matters" of Alabama Power in Item 7 herein for additional information.

Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky Mountain Plant, a pure pumped storage facility of 847,800 KW capacity. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the period 2023-2034 in the case of Alabama Power's projects and in the period 2020-2039 in the case of Georgia Power's projects.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the U.S. Government, by act of Congress, may take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a new licensee. In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the fair value of the property, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance therefrom of the property.

Nuclear Regulation

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Nuclear are subject to regulation by the NRC. The NRC is responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978; and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and other applicable statutes. These responsibilities also include protecting public health and safety, protecting the environment, protecting and safeguarding nuclear materials and nuclear power plants in the interest of national security, and assuring conformity with antitrust laws.

The NRC licenses for Georgia Power's Plant Hatch Units 1 and 2 expire in 2034 and 2038, respectively. The NRC licenses for Alabama Power's Plant Farley Units 1 and 2 expire in 2037 and 2041, respectively. The NRC licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 expire in 2047 and 2049, respectively.

In February 2012, the NRC issued combined construction and operating licenses (COLs) for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Receipt of the COLs allowed full construction to begin. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "PSC Matters – Nuclear Construction" of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" and Georgia Power under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Nuclear Construction" in Item 8 herein for additional information.

See Notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations

The Southern Company system's operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media, including air, water, and land resources. Compliance with these existing environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions or long-term wholesale agreements for the traditional



I-9



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



operating companies or market-based rates for Southern Power. There is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered.

Compliance with the federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been, and will continue to be, a significant focus for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, and SEGCO. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be changed or new laws and regulations may be adopted or otherwise become applicable to the Southern Company system, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, water, management of waste materials and coal combustion residuals, global climate change, or other environmental and health concerns. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters" of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for additional information about the Clean Air Act and other environmental issues, including, but not limited to, the litigation brought by the EPA under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act, proposed and final regulations related to air quality, water, greenhouse gases, and coal combustion residuals. Also see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters" of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for additional information about environmental issues and climate change regulation.

The Southern Company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations and regulations relating to global climate change that are promulgated, including the proposed environmental regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. Compliance costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system, and adding or changing fuel sources for certain existing units. Also see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters" of Southern Company, each of the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in Item 7 herein for additional information. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

SEGCO is jointly owned by Alabama Power and Georgia Power. As part of its environmental compliance strategy, SEGCO plans to add natural gas as the primary fuel source for its generating units in 2015. The capacity of SEGCO's units is sold equally to Alabama Power and Georgia Power through a PPA. If such compliance costs cannot continue to be recovered by Alabama Power or Georgia Power through retail rates, they could have a material financial impact on the financial statements of Southern Company and the applicable traditional operating company. See Note 4 to the financial statements of Alabama Power and Georgia Power for additional information.

Compliance with any new federal or state legislation or regulations relating to air quality, water, coal combustion residuals, global climate change, or other environmental and health concerns could significantly affect the Southern Company system. Although new or revised environmental legislation or regulations could affect many areas of the electric utilities' operations, the full impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this time. Additionally, many of the electric utilities' commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which for some may have the potential to ultimately affect their demand for electricity. See "Construction Program" herein for additional information.



Rate Matters

Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans

The rates and service regulations of the traditional operating companies are uniform for each class of service throughout their respective service territories. Rates for residential electric service are generally of the block type based upon KWHs used and include minimum charges. Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are presently of the block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers' rates are generally based upon usage by the customer and include rates with special features to encourage off-peak usage. Additionally, Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms and cost of service, however, are subject to final state PSC approval.

The traditional operating companies recover their respective costs through a variety of forward-looking, cost-based rate mechanisms. Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as needed or on schedules as required by the respective PSCs. Approved environmental compliance, storm damage, and certain other costs are recovered at Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power through specific cost recovery mechanisms approved by their respective PSCs. Certain similar costs at Georgia Power are recovered through various base rate tariffs as approved by the Georgia PSC. Costs not recovered through specific cost recovery mechanisms are recovered at Alabama Power and Mississippi Power  through annual, formulaic cost recovery proceedings and at Georgia Power and Gulf Power through base rate proceedings.



I-10



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "PSC Matters" of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies under "Retail Regulatory Matters" in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters and certain cost recovery mechanisms. Also, see Note 1 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 8 herein for a discussion of recovery of fuel costs, storm damage costs, and environmental compliance costs through rate mechanisms.

See "Integrated Resource Planning" herein for a discussion of Georgia PSC certification of new demand-side or supply-side resources and decertification of existing supply-side resources for Georgia Power. In addition, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "PSC Matters – Nuclear Construction" of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" and Georgia Power under "Retail Regulatory Matters – Nuclear Construction" in Item 8 herein for a discussion of the Georgia Nuclear Energy Financing Act and the Georgia PSC certification of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which have allowed Georgia Power to recover financing costs for construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 during the construction period beginning in 2011.

See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Mississippi Power under "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle" in Item 8 herein and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle – Rate Recovery of Kemper IGCC Costs" of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein for information on cost recovery plans and a settlement agreement between Mississippi Power and the Mississippi PSC with respect to the Kemper IGCC.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power Company and certain of its generation subsidiaries are authorized by the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate.

Mississippi Power serves long-term contracts with rural electric cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern Mississippi under cost-based electric tariffs which are subject to regulation by the FERC. The contracts with these wholesale customers represented 22% of Mississippi Power's operating revenues in 2013 and are largely subject to rolling 10-year cancellation notices.

Integrated Resource Planning

Each of the traditional operating companies continually evaluates its electric generating resources in order to ensure that it maintains a cost-effective and reliable mix of resources to meet the existing and future demand requirements of its customers. See "Environmental Statutes and Regulations" above for a discussion of existing and potential environmental regulations that may impact the future generating resource needs of the traditional operating companies.

Certain of the traditional operating companies periodically file IRPs with their respective state PSC as discussed below.

Georgia Power

Triennially, Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to meet the future electrical needs of its customers through a combination of demand-side and supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC, under state law, must certify any new demand-side or supply-side resources for Georgia Power to get cost recovery. Once certified, the lesser of actual or certified construction costs and purchased power costs is recoverable through rates. Certified costs may be excluded from recovery only on the basis of fraud, concealment, failure to disclose a material fact, imprudence, or criminal misconduct.

See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "PSC Matters – Georgia Power – Rate Plans" of Southern Company and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under "Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "PSC Matters – Integrated Resource Plans," "– Renewables Development," and "– Nuclear Construction" of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein for additional information.

Gulf Power

Annually by April 1, Gulf Power must file a 10-year site plan with the Florida PSC containing Gulf Power's estimate of its power-generating needs in the period and the general location of its proposed power plant sites. The 10-year site plans submitted by the state's electric utilities are reviewed by the Florida PSC and subsequently classified as either "suitable" or "unsuitable." The Florida PSC then reports its findings along with any suggested revisions to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection for its consideration at any subsequent electrical power plant site certification proceedings. Under Florida law, any 10-year site plans submitted by an electric utility are considered tentative information for planning purposes only and may be amended at any time at the discretion of the utility with written notification to the Florida PSC.



I-11



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Gulf Power's most recent 10-year site plan was classified by the Florida PSC as "suitable" in October 2013. Gulf Power's most recent 10-year site plan and environmental compliance plan identify environmental regulations and potential legislation or regulation that would impose mandatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations – Air Quality," "Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations – Coal Combustion Residuals," and "Environmental Matters – Global Climate Issues" of Gulf Power in Item 7 herein. Gulf Power continues to  evaluate the economics of various potential planning scenarios for units at certain Gulf Power coal-fired generating plants as EPA and other regulations develop.

At least every five years, the Florida PSC must conduct proceedings to establish numerical goals for all investor-owned electric utilities and certain municipal or cooperative electric utilities in the state to reduce the growth rates of weather-sensitive peak demand, to reduce and control the growth rates of electric consumption, and to increase the conservation of expensive resources, such as petroleum fuels. Overall residential KWs and KWH goals and overall commercial/industrial KWs and KWH goals for each utility are set by the Florida PSC for each year over a 10-year period. The goals are to be based on an estimate of the total cost effective KWs and KWH savings reasonably achievable through demand-side management in each utility's service territory over a 10-year period. Once goals have been set, each affected utility must develop and submit plans and programs to meet the overall goals within its service territory to the Florida PSC for review and approval. Once approved, the utilities are required to submit periodic reports which the Florida PSC then uses to prepare its annual report to the Florida Governor and legislature of the goals that have been established and the progress towards meeting those goals.

In 2009, the Florida PSC adopted new numerical conservation goals for Gulf Power along with other electric utilities in the state. Gulf Power's plans and programs to meet the new goals were approved by the Florida PSC. The costs of implementing Gulf Power's conservation plans and programs are recovered through specific conservation recovery rates set annually by the Florida PSC.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mississippi Power

Mississippi Power's 2010 IRP indicated that Mississippi Power plans to construct the Kemper IGCC to meet its identified needs, to add environmental controls at Plant Daniel Units 1 and 2, to defer environmental controls at Plant Watson Units 4 and 5, and to continue operation of the combined cycle Plant Daniel Units 3 and 4. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations – Air Quality" and "Environmental Matters – Global Climate Issues" of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein. Depending on the final requirements in the anticipated EPA regulations and any legislation or regulation relating to greenhouse gas emissions, as well as estimates of long-term fuel prices, Mississippi Power may conclude that it is more economical to discontinue burning coal at certain coal-fired generating units than to install the required controls. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mississippi Baseload Act

For information regarding Mississippi Power's construction of the Kemper IGCC, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle" of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Mississippi Power under "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle" in Item 8 herein.



I-12



Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



For information regarding certain legal challenges to the Baseload Act, see Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under "Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle – Baseload Act" and Note 3 to the financial statements of Mississippi Power under "Retail Regulatory Matters - Baseload Act" in Item 8 herein.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.



Employee Relations

The Southern Company system had a total of 26,300 employees on its payroll at December 31, 2013.



Employees at December 31, 2013Alabama Power6,896Georgia Power7,886Gulf Power1,410Mississippi Power1,344SCS4,459Southern Nuclear4,049Southern Power*0Other256Total26,300

*Southern Power has no employees. Southern Power has agreements with SCS and the traditional operating companies whereby employee services are rendered at amounts in compliance with FERC regulations.

The traditional operating companies have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW generally covering wages, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance, and construction employees.

Alabama Power has agreements with the IBEW in effect through August 15, 2014. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Georgia Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through June 30, 2016.

Gulf Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through September 14, 2014. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Mississippi Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through May 1, 2019. On February 11, 2013, Mississippi Power signed a separate agreement with the IBEW related solely to the Kemper IGCC, which is in effect through March 15, 2016.

Southern Nuclear has an agreement with the IBEW covering certain employees at Plants Hatch and Vogtle which is in effect through June 30, 2016. A five-year agreement between Southern Nuclear and the IBEW representing certain employees at Plant Farley is in effect through August 15, 2014. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

The agreements also make the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above subject to collective bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon union and company actions.



I-13





Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements







