Item 1. BUSINESS

Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern Company is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do business as a foreign corporation
under the laws of Alabama. Southern Company owns all of the outstanding common stock of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating public utility company. The traditional operating companies supply
electric service in the states of Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the traditional operating companies is as follows:

Alabama Poweris a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10, 1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company, and
Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence since its incorporation in 1906.

Georgia Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930 and was admitted to do business in
Alabama on September 15, 1948.

Gulf Poweris a Florida corporation that has had a continuous existence since it
was originally organized under the laws of the State of Maine on November 2, 1925. Gulf Power was admitted to do business in Florida on January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976, and in Georgia on November 20, 1984.
Gulf Power became a Florida corporation after being domesticated under the laws of the State of Florida on November 2, 2005.

Mississippi Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972, was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972, and effective
December 21, 1972, by the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of
Maine on November 24, 1924 and was admitted to do business in Mississippi on December 23, 1924 and in Alabama on December 7, 1962.

In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power, which is also an operating public utility company. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets,
including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern Power is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001 and was admitted to do business in the States of
Alabama, Florida, and Georgia on January 10, 2001, in the State of Mississippi on January 30, 2001, in the State of North Carolina on February 19, 2007, in the State of South Carolina on March 31, 2009, in the State of Texas on
October 26, 2009, and in the State of New Mexico on February 11, 2010.

Southern Company also owns all of the outstanding common
stock or membership interests of SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Nuclear, SCS, Southern Holdings, and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies and markets these services to the public and also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Alabama Power’s and Georgia
Power’s nuclear plants and is currently developing new nuclear generation at Plant Vogtle, which is co-owned by Georgia Power. SCS is the system service company providing, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its subsidiary
companies. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary primarily for Southern Company’s investments in leveraged leases.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. SEGCO is an operating public utility company that owns electric
generating units with an aggregate capacity of 1,019,680 KWs at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama. Alabama Power and Georgia Power are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO’s capacity and energy. Alabama Power acts as
SEGCO’s agent in the operation of SEGCO’s units and furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its units. SEGCO also owns one 230,000 volt transmission line extending from Plant Gaston to the Georgia state line at which point connection is made
with the Georgia Power transmission line system.



I-1




Index to Financial Statements

Southern Company’s segment information is included in Note 12 to the financial statements of Southern
Company in Item 8 herein.

The registrants’ Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company’s website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Southern
Company’s internet address is www.southerncompany.com.

The Southern Company System

Traditional Operating Companies

The
traditional operating companies own generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. See PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein for additional information on the traditional operating companies’ generating facilities. Each company’s
transmission facilities are connected to the respective company’s own generating plants and other sources of power (including certain generating plants owned by Southern Power) and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the
other traditional operating companies and SEGCO. For information on the State of Georgia’s integrated transmission system, see “Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power” herein.

Agreements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems provide for capacity and energy transactions that may be entered into from time to time
for reasons related to reliability or economics. Additionally, the traditional operating companies have entered into voluntary reliability agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power Coordinating Group, and
Tennessee Valley Authority and with Carolina Power & Light Company (d/b/a Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc.), Duke Energy Corporation, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company, and Virginia Electric and Power Company, each of which
provides for the establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency operations, and other matters affecting
the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast (including some of those referred to above) to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power
supply. Through the SERC, the traditional operating companies are represented on the National Electric Reliability Council.

The utility assets
of the traditional operating companies and certain utility assets of Southern Power are operated as a single integrated electric system, or power pool, pursuant to the IIC. Activities under the IIC are administered by SCS, which acts as agent for
the traditional operating companies and Southern Power. The fundamental purpose of the power pool is to provide for the coordinated operation of the electric facilities in an effort to achieve the maximum possible economies consistent with the
highest practicable reliability of service. Subject to service requirements and other operating limitations, system resources are committed and controlled through the application of centralized economic dispatch. Under the IIC, each traditional
operating company and Southern Power retains its lowest cost energy resources for the benefit of its own customers and delivers any excess energy to the power pool for use in serving customers of other traditional operating companies or Southern
Power or for sale by the power pool to third parties. The IIC provides for the recovery of specified costs associated with the affiliated operations thereunder, as well as the proportionate sharing of costs and revenues resulting from power pool
transactions with third parties.

Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO, and other
subsidiaries have contracted with SCS to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon request, the following services: general and design engineering, operations, purchasing, accounting, finance and treasury, tax, information technology, marketing,
auditing, insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless communications, and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool transactions. Southern Power and SouthernLINC
Wireless have also secured from the traditional operating companies certain services which are furnished at cost and, in the case of Southern Power, which are subject to FERC regulations, in compliance with such regulations.



I-2




Index to Financial Statements

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have a contract with Southern Nuclear to operate Plant Farley and
Plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. In addition, Georgia Power has a contract with Southern Nuclear to develop, license, construct, and operate Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. See “Regulation – Nuclear Regulation” herein for additional
information.

Southern Power

Southern Power is an electric wholesale generation subsidiary with market-based rate authority from the FERC. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns,
and manages generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market. Southern Power’s business activities are not subject to traditional state regulation like the traditional
operating companies but are subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has attempted to insulate itself from significant fuel supply, fuel transportation, and electric transmission risks by generally making such risks the responsibility of
the counterparties to its PPAs. However, Southern Power’s future earnings will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market and the efficient operation of its wholesale generating assets. For additional information on Southern Power’s
business activities, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – OVERVIEW – “Business Activities” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein.

Southern Power is constructing a 720 MW electric generating plant in Cleveland County, North Carolina. This new plant is expected to go into commercial operation in December 2012. The total estimated
construction cost is expected to be between $335 million and $365 million.

Southern Power is constructing a biomass generating plant in Sacul,
Texas with an estimated capacity of 100 MWs. The generating plant will be fueled from wood waste and is expected to begin commercial operation in June 2012. The total estimated cost of the project is expected to be between $470 million and $490
million.

On March 15, 2011, Southern Company transferred its ownership in its wholly-owned subsidiary, SRE, to Southern Power. SRE was
formed in January 2010 to construct, acquire, own, and manage renewable generation assets and sell electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market. In March 2010, SRE and Turner Renewable Energy, Inc., through a subsidiary, entered into
an engineering, construction, and procurement agreement with First Solar, Inc. for Plant Cimarron, a 30 MW solar photovoltaic plant near Cimarron, New Mexico, and assumed the associated PPA. In November 2010, Plant Cimarron began commercial
operation. The transfer of net assets was accounted for by Southern Power as a transfer of net assets among entities under common control; therefore, the assets and liabilities of SRE were transferred from Southern Company to Southern Power at
historical cost. The consolidated financial statements of Southern Power have been revised to include the financial condition and the results of operations of SRE since its inception in January 2010.

As of December 31, 2011, Southern Power had 7,908 MWs of nameplate capacity in commercial operation.

Other Businesses

Southern Holdings is
an intermediate holding subsidiary primarily for Southern Company’s investments in leveraged leases.

SouthernLINC Wireless provides
digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and markets its services to non-affiliates within the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless delivers multiple wireless communication options including push to talk,
cellular service, text messaging, wireless internet access, and wireless data. Its system covers approximately 127,000 square miles in the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication
providers in the Southeast under the name Southern Telecom.

These efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities offer potential
returns exceeding those of rate-regulated operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of risk.



I-3




Index to Financial Statements

Construction Programs

The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their
respective systems. For estimated construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2012 through 2014, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY – “Capital Requirements and Contractual
Obligations” and Note 7 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each traditional operating company under “Construction Program” and Note 7 to the financial statements of Southern Power under “Expansion
Program” in Item 8 herein. The Southern Company system’s construction program consists of a base level capital investment and capital expenditures to comply with existing environmental statutes and regulations. In 2012, the base level
capital investment and capital expenditures are expected to be apportioned approximately as follows:



SouthernCompanysystem
*AlabamaPowerGeorgiaPowerGulfPowerMississippiPowerSouthernPower(in millions)New Generation$2,325$1$861$0$1,335$128Environmental **4252223720087—Transmission & Distribution Growth5501603374013—Maintenance (Generation, Transmission, and Distribution)1,23348853214752—Long-Term Service Agreements Capital1264751——28Nuclear fuel333135198———General plant275848715931Total$5,267$937$2,303$402$1,496$187



*These amounts include the amounts for the traditional operating companies and Southern Power (as detailed in the table above) as well as the amounts for the other
subsidiaries. See “Other Businesses” herein for additional information.



**The 2012 base level capital investments for Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power include certain environmental compliance investments associated with the
EPA’s Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) rule (formerly referred to as the Utility Maximum Achievable Control Technology rule). The 2012 base level capital investment for Alabama Power does not include potential incremental environmental
compliance investments associated with complying with the MATS rule. The Southern Company system is assessing the potential costs of complying with the MATS rule, as well as the EPA’s proposed water and coal combustion byproducts rules. The
potential incremental environmental compliance investments in 2012, based on the assumption that coal combustion byproducts will continue to be regulated as non-hazardous solid waste under the proposed rule, are as follows:



SouthernCompany systemAlabamaPowerGeorgiaPowerGulfPowerMississippiPower(in millions)MATS ruleUp to $370Up to $170—Up to $45Up to $30Proposed water and coal combustion byproducts rulesUp to $40Up to $5Up to $30Up to $5Up to $1Total potential incremental environmental compliance
investmentsUp to $410Up to $175Up to $30Up to $50Up to $31

For Southern Power, any incremental investments to comply with existing statutes and regulations, the MATS
rule, or anticipated new environmental regulations in 2012 are expected to be immaterial.



I-4




Index to Financial Statements

The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may
vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; changes in load projections; changes in environmental statutes and regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental
rules; changes in generating plants, including unit retirements and replacements, to meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; PSC approvals; changes in legislation; the cost and efficiency of construction labor,
equipment, and materials; project scope and design changes; storm impacts; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

See “Regulation – Environmental Statutes and Regulations” herein for additional information with respect to certain existing and proposed
environmental requirements and PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information concerning Alabama Power’s, Georgia Power’s, and Southern Power’s joint ownership of certain
generating units and related facilities with certain non-affiliated utilities.

Financing Programs

See each of the registrant’s MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY in Item 7
herein and Note 6 to the financial statements of each registrant in Item 8 herein for information concerning financing programs.

Fuel Supply

The traditional operating companies’ and SEGCO’s supply of electricity is derived mainly from coal. Southern Power’s supply of electricity
is primarily fueled by natural gas. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – “Electricity Business – Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses” of Southern Company and MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – “Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses” of each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for information regarding the electricity generated and the average cost of fuel in cents per net
kilowatt-hour generated for the years 2009 through 2011.

SCS,
acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, has agreements in place for the natural gas burn requirements of the Southern Company system. For 2012, SCS has contracted for 378 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply
under agreements with remaining terms up to nine years. In addition to natural gas supply, SCS has contracts in place for both firm natural gas transportation and storage. Management believes that these contracts provide sufficient natural gas
supplies, transportation, and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company system’s natural gas generating units.

Changes
in fuel prices to the traditional operating companies are generally reflected in fuel adjustment clauses contained in rate schedules. See “Rate Matters – Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans” herein for additional information.
Southern Power’s PPAs generally provide that the counterparty is responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel.



I-5




Index to Financial Statements

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have numerous contracts covering a portion of their nuclear fuel needs for
uranium, conversion services, enrichment services, and fuel fabrication. These contracts have varying expiration dates and most of them are for less than 10 years. Management believes that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing
exists to preclude the impairment of normal operations of the Southern Company system’s nuclear generating units.

Alabama Power and
Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE, that provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and
Georgia Power have pursued and are pursuing legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power under “Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs” in
Item 8 herein for additional information.

Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and
Southern Power

The territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service comprises most of the states of Alabama
and Georgia together with the northwestern portion of Florida and southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems which obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly
from the traditional operating companies. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles and an estimated population of approximately 16 million. Southern Power sells electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market
primarily to investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and electric cooperatives.

Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama,
in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity, at retail in approximately 400 cities and towns (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery, and Tuscaloosa), as well as
in rural areas, and at wholesale to 15 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly through sales to Alabama Municipal Electric Authority, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. Alabama Power owns
coal reserves near its Plant Gorgas and uses the output of coal from the reserves in its generating plants. Alabama Power also sells, and cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances.

Georgia Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity within the State
of Georgia, at retail in over 600 communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome, and Savannah), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to OPC, MEAG Power, Dalton, Hampton, various electric membership
corporations, and non-affiliated utilities.

Gulf Power is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the generation and purchase
of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity, at retail in 71 communities (including Pensacola, Panama City, and Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to a non-affiliated utility and
a municipality.

Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of
such electricity within 23 counties in southeastern Mississippi, at retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian, and Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural
electric distribution cooperative associations, and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

For information relating to KWH sales by
customer classification for the traditional operating companies, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the
sources of revenues for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power, reference is made to Item 7 herein.

The
RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or corporations to enable them to provide electric service to customers in rural sections of the country. There are 71 electric cooperative organizations operating in the territory in which
the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.



I-6




Index to Financial Statements

One of these organizations, PowerSouth, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power to
several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems, and other customers in south Alabama and northwest Florida. PowerSouth owns generating units with approximately 2,027 MWs of nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in
Alabama Power’s Plant Miller Units 1 and 2. PowerSouth’s facilities were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts requiring distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from PowerSouth to the extent such energy is
available.

Alabama Power and Gulf Power have entered into separate agreements with PowerSouth involving interconnection between their
respective systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from PowerSouth to certain distributing cooperatives in the service territories of Alabama Power and Gulf Power is governed by the Southern Company/PowerSouth Network Transmission Service
Agreement. The rates for this service to PowerSouth are on file with the FERC. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for details of Alabama Power’s joint-ownership with PowerSouth of a portion of
Plant Miller.

Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within Gulf Power’s service territory. These
cooperatives purchase their full requirements from PowerSouth and SEPA (a federal power marketing agency). A non-affiliated utility also operates within Gulf Power’s service territory and purchases its full requirements from Gulf Power.

Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with SMEPA, a generating and transmitting cooperative, pursuant to which various services are
provided, including the furnishing of protective capacity by Mississippi Power to SMEPA. In July 2010, Mississippi Power and SMEPA entered into an asset purchase agreement whereby SMEPA agreed to purchase an undivided 17.5% interest in the Kemper
IGCC. The closing of this transaction is conditioned upon execution of a joint ownership and operating agreement, receipt of all construction permits, appropriate regulatory approvals, financing, and other conditions. In December 2010, Mississippi
Power and SMEPA filed a joint petition with the Mississippi PSC requesting regulatory approval for SMEPA’s 17.5% ownership of the Kemper IGCC.

There are also 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

Forty-eight municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system receive their requirements through MEAG Power, which was
established by a Georgia state statute in 1975. MEAG Power serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and purchases from other resources. MEAG Power also has a pseudo
scheduling and services agreement with Georgia Power. Dalton serves its requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and through purchases from Georgia Power and Southern Power through a
service agreement. In addition, Georgia Power serves the full requirements of Hampton’s electric distribution system under a market-based contract. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for
additional information.

Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia Transmission Corporation, MEAG Power, and
Dalton providing for the establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of all parties. The agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in proportion to its respective share
of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Southern Power has PPAs with some of the traditional operating companies and with other investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, electric
cooperatives, and an energy marketing firm. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Power Sales Agreements” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for additional information
concerning Southern Power’s PPAs.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA providing
for the use of the traditional operating companies’ facilities at government expense to deliver to certain cooperatives and



I-7




Index to Financial Statements

municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated to them by SEPA from certain United
States government hydroelectric projects.

Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued “Grandfather Certificates” of
public convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them to distribute electricity in certain
specified geographically described areas of the state. The six cooperatives serve approximately 325,000 retail customers in a certificated area of approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a “Grandfather Certificate,”
the utility holding such certificate may, without further certification, extend its lines up to five miles; other extensions within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except upon a showing of, and a grant of a
certificate of, public convenience and necessity. Areas included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be served by the holder of the certificate, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the
annexing municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.

Competition

The electric utility industry in the United States
is continuing to evolve as a result of regulatory and competitive factors. Among the early primary agents of change was the Energy Policy Act of 1992 which allowed IPPs to access a utility’s transmission network in order to sell electricity to
other utilities.

The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by various factors, including
price, availability, technological advancements, service, and reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory, political, and environmental considerations, taxation, and supply.

The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the Territorial Electric Service Act of 1973. Pursuant to the
provisions of this Act, all areas within existing municipal limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier therein. Areas outside of such municipal limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer choice of supplier by
action of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth in this Act. Consistent with such standards, the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides
that any new customer locating outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 KWs may exercise a one-time choice for the life of the premises to receive electric service from the supplier of its choice.

Generally, the traditional operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition in their respective retail service
territories in varying degrees as the result of self-generation (as described below) by customers and other factors.

Southern Power competes
with investor owned utilities, IPPs, and others for wholesale energy sales primarily in the Southeastern U.S. wholesale market. The needs of this market are driven by the demands of end users in the Southeast and the generation available. Southern
Power’s success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and availability of Southern Power’s plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price, and Southern Power’s ability to
contain costs.

Alabama Power currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with nine industrial customers. Under the terms of these
contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess generation of such companies. During 2011, Alabama Power purchased approximately 115 million KWHs from such companies at a cost of $5 million.

Georgia Power currently has contracts in effect with 10 small power producers whereby Georgia Power purchases their excess generation. During 2011, Georgia Power purchased 18 million KWHs from such
companies at a cost of $0.6 million. Georgia Power also has PPAs for electricity with two cogeneration facilities. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to meet minimum capacity output. During 2011, Georgia Power purchased 261 million
KWHs at a cost of $26 million from these facilities.



I-8




Index to Financial Statements

Also during 2011, Georgia Power purchased energy from eight customer-owned generating facilities. Seven of
the eight customers provide only energy to Georgia Power. These seven customers make no capacity commitment and are not dispatched by Georgia Power. Georgia Power does have a contract with the remaining customer for eight MWs of dispatchable
capacity and energy. During 2011, Georgia Power purchased a total of 37 million KWHs from the eight customers at a cost of approximately $1 million.

Gulf Power currently has agreements in effect with various industrial, commercial, and qualifying facilities pursuant to which Gulf Power purchases “as available” energy from customer-owned
generation. During 2011, Gulf Power purchased 240 million KWHs from such companies for approximately $11 million.

Mississippi Power
currently has a cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation. During 2011, Mississippi Power did not purchase any excess generation from
this customer.

Seasonality

The demand for electric power generation is affected by seasonal differences in the weather. At the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, the demand for power peaks during the summer months,
with market prices reflecting the demand of power and available generating resources at that time. Power demand peaks can also be recorded during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, and Southern Power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder.

Regulation

State Commissions

The traditional operating companies are subject to the jurisdiction of
their respective state PSCs. The PSCs have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the Mississippi PSC), and, in
the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail service territories. See “Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power” and “Rate Matters” herein for additional information.

Federal Power Act

The
traditional operating companies, Southern Power and its generation subsidiaries, and SEGCO are all public utilities engaged in wholesale sales of energy in interstate commerce and therefore are subject to the rate, financial, and accounting
jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. The FERC must approve certain financings and allows an “at cost standard” for services rendered by system service companies such as SCS and Southern Nuclear. The FERC is also authorized
to establish regional reliability organizations which are authorized to enforce reliability standards, to address impediments to the construction of transmission, and to prohibit manipulative energy trading practices.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees
with respect to their hydroelectric developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,662,400 KWs and 18 existing Georgia
Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,087,296 KWs.

In 2005, Alabama Power filed two applications with the FERC
for new 50-year licenses for its seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay, Mitchell, Jordan, and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior River. The FERC licenses for all
of these nine projects expired in 2007. Since the FERC did not act on Alabama Power’s new license applications prior to the expiration of the existing licenses, the FERC is required by law to issue annual licenses to Alabama Power, under the
terms and conditions of the existing license, until action is taken on the new license applications.



I-9




Index to Financial Statements

The FERC issued annual licenses to the Coosa developments and the Warrior River developments in
2007. These annual licenses are automatically renewed each year without further action by the FERC to allow Alabama Power to continue operation of the projects under the terms of the previous license while the FERC completes review of the
applications for new licenses. Though the Coosa application remains pending before the FERC, in March 2010, the FERC issued a new 30 year license to Alabama Power for the Warrior River developments. In April 2010, the Smith Lake
Improvement and Stakeholder Association filed a request for rehearing of the FERC order granting the new Warrior license. In May 2010, the FERC granted the rehearing request for the limited purpose of allowing the FERC additional time to
consider the substantive issues raised in the request.

In 2006, Alabama Power initiated the process of developing an application to relicense
the Martin Dam Project located on the Tallapoosa River. The current Martin license will expire on June 8, 2013. On June 8, 2011, Alabama Power filed an application with the FERC to relicense the Martin Dam Project.

In 2010, Alabama Power initiated the process of developing an application to relicense the Holt hydroelectric project located on the Warrior River. The
current Holt license will expire on August 31, 2015, and the application for a new license is expected to be filed with the FERC no later than August 31, 2013.

In 2007, Georgia Power began the relicensing process for Bartlett’s Ferry which is located on the Chattahoochee River near Columbus, Georgia. The current Bartlett’s Ferry license expires in 2014
and the application for a new license is expected to be submitted to the FERC in late 2012.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “FERC Matters” of Alabama Power in Item 7 herein for additional information.

Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky Mountain Plant, a pure pumped storage facility of 847,800 KW capacity. See
PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Licenses for all projects,
excluding those discussed above, expire in the period 2023-2034 in the case of Alabama Power’s projects and in the period 2020-2039 in the case of Georgia Power’s projects.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the U.S. Government, by act of Congress, may take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a new licensee.
In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess
of the fair value of the property, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance therefrom of the property.

Nuclear Regulation

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Nuclear are subject to
regulation by the NRC. The NRC is responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; the
Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978; and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and other applicable statutes. These responsibilities also include
protecting public health and safety, protecting the environment, protecting and safeguarding nuclear materials and nuclear power plants in the interest of national security, and assuring conformity with antitrust laws.

In 2002, the NRC extended the licenses of Georgia Power’s Plant Hatch Units 1 and 2 until 2034 and 2038, respectively. In 2005, the NRC extended the
licenses of Alabama Power’s Plant Farley Units 1 and 2 until 2037 and 2041, respectively. In 2009, the NRC extended the licenses of Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 to 2047 and 2049, respectively.

Also in 2009, the NRC issued an Early Site Permit and Limited Work Authorization to Southern Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power, OPC, MEAG Power, and
Dalton (collectively, Owners), related to Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. In



I-10




Index to Financial Statements

2008, Southern Nuclear filed an application with the NRC for combined construction and operating licenses (COLs) for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. The NRC certified the Westinghouse Electric
Company LLC’s Design Certification Document, as amended, for the AP1000 reactor design, effective December 30, 2011. On February 9, 2012, the NRC affirmed a decision directing the NRC staff to proceed with issuance of the COLs for
Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 in accordance with its regulations. The COLs were received on February 10, 2012. Receipt of the COLs allows full construction to begin on Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which are expected to attain commercial operation
in 2016 and 2017, respectively. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction — Nuclear” of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of
Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Nuclear Construction” and Georgia Power under “Construction — Nuclear” in Item 8 herein for additional information.

See Notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear
decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations

Southern Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and
regulations governing environmental media, including air, water, and land resources. Compliance with these existing environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered
through existing ratemaking provisions for the traditional operating companies or market-based rates for Southern Power. There is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered.

Compliance with the federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been, and will continue to be, a significant focus for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, and
SEGCO. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be changed or new laws and regulations may be adopted or otherwise become applicable to the Southern Company system, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality,
water, management of waste materials and coal combustion byproducts, global climate change, or other environmental and health concerns. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental
Matters” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for additional information about the Clean Air Act and other environmental issues, including, but not limited to, the litigation brought by the
EPA under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act, proposed and final regulations related to air quality, water, greenhouse gases, and coal combustion byproducts. Also see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for additional information about environmental issues and climate change regulation.

The Southern Company system’s compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures are dependent on a final assessment of
the MATS rule and will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations that are promulgated, including proposed environmental regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; the cost,
availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. These costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system,
the addition of new generating resources, and changing fuel sources for certain existing units. The Southern Company system’s preliminary analysis further indicates that the short timeframe for compliance with the MATS rule could significantly
affect electric system reliability and cause an increase in costs of materials and services. Also see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters” of Southern Company and each of
the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein for additional information. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

As of December 31, 2011, the Southern Company system had total generating capacity of approximately 43,555 MWs, of which 20,212 MWs are coal-fired. Over the past several years, the Southern Company
system has installed various pollution control technologies on coal-fired units, including both selective catalytic reduction equipment and scrubbers on the 17 largest coal units making up 11,036 MWs of the Southern Company system’s coal-fired
generating capacity. As a result of the EPA’s final and anticipated rules and regulations, the Southern Company system is evaluating its coal-fired generating capacity and is developing a compliance strategy which may include unit retirements,
installation of additional environmental controls (including its units with existing pollution control technologies), and changing fuel sources for certain units.



I-11




Index to Financial Statements

SEGCO is also developing an environmental compliance strategy for its 1,000 MWs of coal-fired generating
capacity, which may result in unit retirements, installation of controls, or changing fuel source. The capacity of SEGCO’s units is sold to Alabama Power and Georgia Power through a PPA. The impact of SEGCO’s compliance strategy on
such PPA costs cannot be determined at this time; however, if such costs cannot continue to be recovered through retail rates, they could have a material financial impact on Southern Company’s, Alabama Power’s, or Georgia Power’s
financial statements. See Note 4 to the financial statements for additional information.

Compliance with any new federal or state legislation
or regulations relating to global climate change, air quality, coal combustion byproducts, water, or other environmental and health concerns could significantly affect the Southern Company system. Although new or revised environmental legislation or
regulations could affect many areas of the electric utilities’ operations, the full impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this time. Additionally, many of the electric utilities’ commercial and industrial customers may also be
affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which for some may have the potential to ultimately affect their demand for electricity. See “Construction Program” herein for additional information.

Rate Matters

Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans

The rates and service regulations of the traditional operating companies are uniform for each class of service throughout their respective service
territories. Rates for residential electric service are generally of the block type based upon KWHs used and include minimum charges. Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are presently of the
block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers’ rates are generally based upon usage by the customer and include rates with special features to
encourage off-peak usage. Additionally, Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms and cost of service, however, are
subject to final state PSC approval.

The traditional operating companies recover their respective costs through a variety of forward-looking,
cost-based rate mechanisms. Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as needed or on schedules
as required by the respective PSCs. Approved environmental compliance, storm damage, and certain other costs are recovered at Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power through specific cost recovery mechanisms approved by their respective
PSCs. Certain similar costs at Georgia Power are recovered through various base rate tariffs as approved by the Georgia PSC. Costs not recovered through specific cost recovery mechanisms are recovered at Alabama Power and Mississippi Power through
annual, formulaic cost recovery proceedings and at Georgia Power and Gulf Power through base rate proceedings.

See MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “PSC Matters” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern
Company and each of the traditional operating companies under “Retail Regulatory Matters” in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters. Also, see Note 1 to the financial statements of Southern Company and each of the
traditional operating companies in Item 8 herein for a discussion of recovery of fuel costs, storm damage costs, and environmental compliance costs through rate mechanisms.

See “Integrated Resource Planning” herein for a discussion of Georgia PSC certification of new demand-side or supply-side resources for Georgia Power. In addition, see MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction — Nuclear” of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters
– Georgia Power — Nuclear Construction” and Georgia Power under “Construction – Nuclear” in Item 8 herein for a discussion of the Georgia Nuclear Energy Financing Act and the Georgia PSC certification of Plant
Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which allow Georgia Power to recover financing costs for construction of the new nuclear units during the construction period beginning in 2011.



I-12




Index to Financial Statements

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power and its generation subsidiaries are authorized by the
FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate.

Integrated Resource Planning

Each of
the traditional operating companies continually evaluates its electric generating resources in order to ensure that it maintains a cost-effective and reliable mix of resources to meet the existing and future demand requirements of its customers. See
“Environmental Statutes and Regulations” above for a discussion of existing and potential environmental regulations that may impact the future generating resource needs of the traditional operating companies.

Certain of the traditional operating companies periodically file IRPs with their respective state PSC. The following is a summary of the most recent IRP
filings by certain of the traditional operating companies.

Georgia Power

Triennially, Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to meet the future electrical needs of its customers
through a combination of demand-side and supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC, under state law, must certify any new demand-side or supply-side resources for Georgia Power to get cost recovery. Once certified, the lesser of actual or certified
construction costs and purchased power costs is recoverable through rates. Certified costs may be excluded from recovery only on the basis of fraud, concealment, failure to disclose a material fact, imprudence, or criminal misconduct.

In January 2010, Georgia Power filed its 2010 IRP with the Georgia PSC. The 2010 IRP projected that Georgia Power’s current supply-side and
demand-side resources are sufficient to provide a cost-effective and reliable source of capacity and energy at least through 2014. The 2010 IRP identified a number of potential new or modified federal environmental statutes and regulations that
could significantly impact Georgia Power’s existing coal-fired generating units. In addition, under the State of Georgia’s Multi-Pollutant Rule, Georgia Power is required to install specific emissions controls on certain coal-fired
generating units by specific dates between December 31, 2008 and June 1, 2015. See “Environmental Statutes and Regulations” above.

In July 2010, the Georgia PSC approved Georgia Power’s 2010 IRP including the following provisions: (1) restarting a request for proposal to enable the potential replacement of coal units that
may be retired beginning in approximately 2015; (2) expanding energy efficiency efforts; (3) implementing seven new demand-side management and energy efficiency programs; (4) collecting incentives totaling 10% of the net benefit of
energy efficiency programs annually, with certain conditions, for the certified programs; (5) developing a one MW self-build portfolio of solar photovoltaic demonstration projects; (6) delaying capital spending on the conversion of Plant
Mitchell Unit 3 from a coal-fired generating unit to a renewable biomass generating unit until the EPA issues applicable maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards under the Clean Air Act; (7) considering conversion of additional
coal units to biomass, if such conversions appear to be economic and feasible; and (8) continuing to suspend work on environmental controls for Units 6 and 7 at Plant Yates and Units 3 and 4 at Plant Branch until the EPA issues applicable MACT
standards and regulations for coal combustion byproducts.

In addition, Georgia Power’s 2010 IRP reflected the construction of Plant
McDonough Units 4, 5, and 6 (natural gas) and Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 (nuclear) as certified by the Georgia PSC in 2007 and 2009, respectively. The 2010 IRP also reflected the related retirement of Plant McDonough Units 1 and 2 (coal), which were
decertified by the Georgia PSC in connection with construction of the new units. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction” of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Nuclear Construction” and “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Other Construction” in Item 8 herein and
Note 3 to the financial statements of Georgia Power under “Construction” in Item 8 herein for additional information.



I-13




Index to Financial Statements

In addition, Georgia Power filed a request with the Georgia PSC on August 4, 2011 for the certification of 562 MWs of certain wholesale capacity that
is scheduled to be returned to retail service in 2015 and 2016 under a September 2010 agreement with Georgia PSC. On January 30, 2012, Georgia Power entered into a stipulation with the Georgia PSC Advocacy Staff to grant the Georgia PSC an
extension to the Georgia PSC’s termination option date from February 1, 2012 to March 27, 2012. The Georgia PSC can exercise the termination option under specific conditions, such as changes in the cost of compliance with EPA rules
and coal unit retirement decisions.

The Georgia PSC is expected to vote on these requests in March 2012. The ultimate outcome of these matters
cannot be determined at this time.

Gulf Power

Gulf Power’s most recent 10-year site plan was classified by the Florida PSC as “suitable” on November 22, 2011. Gulf
Power’s most recent 10-year site plan and environmental compliance plan identify environmental regulations and potential legislation or regulation that would impose mandatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS —FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters — Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Air Quality,” “Environmental Matters – Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Coal
Combustion Byproducts,” and “Environmental Matters — Global Climate Issues” of Gulf Power in Item 7 herein. The site plan and environmental compliance plan include preliminary retirement studies under a variety of potential
scenarios for units at each of Gulf Power’s coal-fired generating plants. These studies



I-14




Index to Financial Statements

indicate that, depending on the final requirements in these anticipated EPA regulations and any legislation or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions, as well as estimates of long-term
fuel prices, Gulf Power may conclude that it is more economical to retire certain of its coal-fired generating units prior to 2021 and to replace such units with new or purchased capacity.

In 2009, the Florida PSC adopted new numerical conservation goals for Gulf Power along with other electric utilities in the state. The Florida PSC adopted more aggressive goals due in part to the
consideration of possible greenhouse gas emissions costs incurred in connection with possible climate change legislation and a change in the manner in which the Florida PSC considers the effect of so-called “free-riders” on the level of
conservation reasonably achievable through utility programs. Gulf Power’s plans and programs to meet the new goals were submitted to the Florida PSC for review in March 2010 and were approved on January 25, 2011. The costs of
implementing Gulf Power’s conservation plans and programs are recovered through specific conservation recovery rates set annually by the Florida PSC.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mississippi Power

In 2009, Mississippi Power filed its 2010 IRP with the Mississippi PSC. The filing was made in connection with the Mississippi PSC
certification proceedings relating to the Kemper IGCC. In the 2010 IRP, Mississippi Power projected that it will have a need for new capacity in the 2013 to 2015 timeframe. The 2010 IRP indicated a need range of approximately 200 MWs to 300 MWs in
2014, which reflects growth in load and the anticipated retirement of older gas steam units Plant Eaton Units 1 through 3 and Plant Watson Units 1 through 3 in 2012 and 2013, respectively. In addition, due to potential retirements of existing coal
units, the Mississippi PSC found a need in 2015 that ranges from 304 MWs to 1,276 MWs.

The range of needs for 2015 is based on Mississippi
Power’s preliminary analysis of the MATS rule, as well as potential legislation or regulations that would impose mandatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL
— “Environmental Matters — Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Air Quality” and “Environmental Matters — Global Climate Issues” of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein. Depending on Mississippi
Power’s final assessment of the MATS rule, the final requirements in the anticipated EPA regulations, and any legislation or regulation relating to greenhouse gas emissions, as well as estimates of long-term fuel prices, Mississippi Power may
conclude that it is more economical to discontinue burning coal at certain coal-fired generating units than to install the required controls.

Mississippi Power’s 2010 IRP indicated that Mississippi Power plans to construct the Kemper IGCC to meet its identified needs, to add environmental
controls at Plant Daniel Units 1 and 2, to defer environmental controls at Plant Watson Units 4 and 5, and to continue operation of the combined cycle Plant Daniel Units 3 and 4.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mississippi Base
Load Construction Legislation

In the 2008 regular session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill was passed and signed by the Governor in
2008 to enhance the Mississippi PSC’s authority to facilitate development and construction of base load generation in the State of Mississippi (Baseload Act). The Baseload Act authorizes, but does not require, the Mississippi PSC to adopt a
cost recovery mechanism that includes in retail base rates, prior to and during construction, all or a portion of the prudently incurred pre-construction and construction costs incurred by a utility in constructing a base load electric generating
plant. Prior to the passage of the Baseload Act, such costs would traditionally be recovered only after the plant was placed in service. The Baseload Act also provides for periodic prudence reviews by the Mississippi PSC and prohibits the
cancellation of any such generating plant without the approval of the Mississippi PSC. In the event of cancellation of the construction of the plant without approval of the Mississippi PSC, the Baseload Act authorizes the Mississippi PSC to make a
public interest determination as to whether and to what extent the utility will be afforded rate recovery for costs incurred in connection with such cancelled generating plant. The effect of this legislation on Southern Company and Mississippi Power
cannot be determined at this time.



I-15




Index to Financial Statements

In May 2010, Mississippi Power filed a motion with the Mississippi PSC accepting the
conditions contained in the Mississippi PSC order confirming Mississippi Power’s application for a certification of public convenience and necessity (CPCN) authorizing the acquisition, construction, and operation of the Kemper IGCC. In June
2010, the Mississippi PSC issued the CPCN. The estimated cost of the plant is $2.4 billion, net of $245.3 million of grants awarded to the project by the DOE under the Clean Coal Power Initiative Round 2. The Mississippi PSC’s order
(1) approved a construction cost cap of up to $2.88 billion (exemptions from the cost cap include the cost of the lignite mine and equipment and the carbon dioxide (CO


) pipeline facilities), (2) provided for the establishment of operational cost and revenue parameters based upon
assumptions in the Mississippi Power proposal, and (3) approved financing cost recovery on construction work in progress (CWIP) balances, which provided for the accrual of an allowance for funds used during construction in 2010 and 2011 and
provides for the recovery of financing costs on 100% of CWIP in 2012, 2013, and through May 1, 2014 (provided that the amount of CWIP allowed is (i) reduced by the amount of state and federal government construction cost incentives
received by Mississippi Power in excess of $296 million to the extent that such amount increases cash flow for the pertinent regulatory period and (ii) justified by a showing that such CWIP allowance will benefit customers over the life of the
plant). The Mississippi PSC order established periodic prudence reviews during the annual CWIP review process. Of the costs incurred through March 2009, $46 million has been reviewed and approved by the Mississippi PSC. A decision regarding the
remaining $5 million has been deferred to a later date. The timing of the review of the remaining Kemper IGCC costs is uncertain.

On
April 27, 2011 and August 9, 2011, Mississippi Power submitted to the Mississippi PSC proposed rate schedules detailing Certificated New Plant-A (CNP-A) and Certificated New Plant-B (CNP-B), respectively. CNP-A and CNP-B are proposed
cost recovery mechanisms authorized by the Baseload Act. CNP-A is designed specifically to recover financing costs during the construction phase of the Kemper IGCC and CNP-B is designed to govern rates after the Kemper IGCC is placed into commercial
service.

See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “PSC Matters — Certificated New
Plant” of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” and Mississippi Power under “Retail Regulatory Matters —
Certificated New Plant” in Item 8 herein for additional information.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at
this time.

Employee Relations

The Southern Company system had a total of 26,377 employees on its payroll at December 31, 2011.



Employees at December 31, 2011Alabama Power6,632Georgia Power8,310Gulf Power1,424Mississippi Power1,264SCS4,533Southern Nuclear3,933Southern Power*0Other281Total26,377



*Southern Power has no employees. Southern Power has agreements with SCS and the traditional operating companies whereby employee services are rendered at amounts in
compliance with FERC regulations.

The traditional operating companies have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW
generally covering wages, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance, and construction employees.



I-16




Index to Financial Statements

Alabama Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect
through August 15, 2014.

Georgia Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect
through June 30, 2016.

Gulf Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through
September 14, 2014.

Mississippi Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through
August 15, 2014.

Southern Nuclear and the IBEW ratified a new five-year labor agreement for certain employees at Plants Hatch and Vogtle
on September 16, 2011. The agreement is effective through June 30, 2016. A five-year agreement between Southern Nuclear and the IBEW representing certain employees at Plant Farley, which was ratified in 2009, remains in effect through
August 15, 2014.

The agreements also make the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above subject to collective
bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon union and company actions.



I-17




Index to Financial Statements

