Item 1. BUSINESS

Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern
Company is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do business as a foreign
corporation under the laws of Alabama. Southern Company owns all of the outstanding common stock
of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating
public utility company. The traditional operating companies supply electric service in the states
of Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the
traditional operating companies is as follows:

Alabama Poweris a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10,
1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company, and
Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence
since its incorporation in 1906.

Georgia Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930 and was
admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948.

Gulf Poweris a Florida corporation that has had a continuous existence since it was originally
organized under the laws of the State of Maine on November 2, 1925. Gulf Power was admitted to
do business in Florida on January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976, and in Georgia
on November 20, 1984. Gulf Power became a Florida corporation after being domesticated under
the laws of the State of Florida on November 2, 2005.

Mississippi Powerwas incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972,
was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by
the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and
properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924 and was admitted to do business in
Mississippi on December 23, 1924 and in Alabama on December 7, 1962.

In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power, which is also an
operating public utility company. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages
generation assets and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern
Power is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001 and was admitted to
do business in the States of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia on January 10, 2001, in the State of
Mississippi on January 30, 2001, and in the State of North Carolina on February 19, 2007.

Southern Company also owns all of the outstanding common stock or membership interests of
SouthernLINC Wireless, Southern Nuclear, SCS, Southern Holdings, Southern Renewable Energy, and
other direct and indirect subsidiaries. SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless
communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and markets these services
to the public and also provides wholesale fiber optic solutions to telecommunication providers in
the Southeast. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to Alabama Power’s and Georgia
Power’s nuclear plants and is currently developing new nuclear generation at Plant Vogtle. SCS is
the system service company providing, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern
Company’s investments in leveraged leases. Southern Renewable Energy was formed in January 2010 to
construct, acquire, own, and manage renewable generation assets.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. SEGCO is an
operating public utility company that owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of
1,019,680 kilowatts at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama. Alabama Power
and Georgia Power are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO’s capacity and energy. Alabama Power acts
as SEGCO’s agent in the operation of SEGCO’s units and furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its
units. SEGCO also owns one 230,000 volt transmission line extending from Plant Gaston to the
Georgia state line at which point connection is made with the Georgia Power transmission line system.

I-1




Southern Company’s segment information is included in Note 12 to the financial statements of
Southern Company in Item 8 herein.

The registrants’ Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company’s website,
free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with
or furnished to the SEC. Southern Company’s internet address is www.southerncompany.com.



The Southern Company System

Traditional Operating Companies

The traditional operating companies own generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. See
PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein for additional information on the traditional operating companies’
generating facilities. Each company’s transmission facilities are connected to the respective
company’s own generating plants and other sources of power (including certain generating plants
owned by Southern Power) and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other
traditional operating companies and SEGCO. For information on the State of Georgia’s integrated
transmission system, see “Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern
Power” herein.

Agreements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems provide for capacity and energy
transactions that may be entered into from time to time for reasons related to reliability or
economics. Additionally, the traditional operating companies have entered into voluntary
reliability agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power
Coordinating Group, and TVA and with Progress Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy, South Carolina
Electric & Gas Company, and Virginia Electric and Power Company, each of which provides for the
establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of
generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency
operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional
operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast (including some of those
referred to above) to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power
supply. Through the SERC, the traditional operating companies are represented on the National
Electric Reliability Council.

The utility assets of the traditional operating companies and certain utility assets of Southern
Power are operated as a single integrated electric system, or power pool, pursuant to the IIC.
Activities under the IIC are administered by SCS, which acts as agent for the traditional operating
companies and Southern Power. The fundamental purpose of the power pool is to provide for the
coordinated operation of the electric facilities in an effort to achieve the maximum possible
economies consistent with the highest practicable reliability of service. Subject to service
requirements and other operating limitations, system resources are committed and controlled through
the application of centralized economic dispatch. Under the IIC, each traditional operating
company and Southern Power retains its lowest cost energy resources for the benefit of its own
customers and delivers any excess energy to the power pool for use in serving customers of other
traditional operating companies or Southern Power or for sale by the power pool to third parties.
The IIC provides for the recovery of specified costs associated with the affiliated operations
thereunder, as well as the proportionate sharing of costs and revenues resulting from power pool
transactions with third parties.

Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO, and
other subsidiaries have contracted with SCS to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon
request, the following services: general and design engineering, operations, purchasing,
accounting, finance and treasury, tax, information technology, marketing, auditing, insurance and
pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless communications,
and other services with respect to business and operations and power pool transactions. Southern
Power and SouthernLINC Wireless have also secured from the traditional operating companies certain
services which are furnished at cost and, in the case of Southern Power, which are subject to FERC
regulations, in compliance with such regulations.

I-2




Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have a contract with Southern Nuclear to operate Plant Farley
and Plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. In addition, Georgia Power has a contract with Southern
Nuclear to develop, license, construct, and operate additional generating units at Plant Vogtle.
See “Regulation – Nuclear Regulation” herein for additional information.

Southern Power

Southern Power is an electric wholesale generation subsidiary with market-based rate authority from
the FERC. Southern Power constructs, acquires, owns, and manages generation assets and sells
electricity at market-based prices in the wholesale market. Southern Power’s business activities
are not subject to traditional state regulation like the traditional operating companies but are
subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has attempted to insulate itself from
significant fuel supply, fuel transportation, and electric transmission risks by making such risks
the responsibility of the counterparties to its PPAs. However, Southern Power’s future earnings
will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market, federal regulation, and the efficient
operation of its wholesale generating assets. For additional information on Southern Power’s
business activities, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – OVERVIEW – “Business Activities”
of Southern Power in Item 7 herein.

In 2008, Southern Power completed construction on Plant Franklin Unit 3 which added 659 megawatts
to the Southern Company system generating capacity. Southern Power is constructing a 720-megawatt
electric generating plant in Cleveland County, North Carolina. This new plant is expected to go
into commercial operation in 2012. The total estimated construction cost is expected to be between
$350 million and $400 million.

In October 2009, Southern Power acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of Nacogdoches
Power LLC from American Renewables LLC, the original developer of a biomass project in Sacul,
Texas. Southern Power continues to construct the Nacogdoches biomass generating plant with an
estimated capacity of 100 megawatts. The generating plant will be fueled from wood waste and is
expected to begin commercial operation in 2012. The total estimated cost of the project is
expected to be between $475 million and $500 million.

In December 2009, Southern Power acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of West
Georgia Generating Company, LLC (West Georgia) from Broadway Gen Funding, LLC, an affiliate of LS
Power. West Georgia was merged into Southern Power as of the acquisition date and Southern Power
now owns a dual-fueled generating plant near Thomaston, Georgia with nameplate capacity of
approximately 669 megawatts. The plant consists of four combustion turbine natural gas generating
units with oil back-up.

As of December 31, 2010, Southern Power had 7,880 megawatts of nameplate capacity in commercial
operation.

Other Businesses

Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary for Southern Company’s investments in
leveraged leases.

SouthernLINC Wireless provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its
subsidiary companies and markets its services to non-affiliates within the Southeast. SouthernLINC
Wireless delivers multiple wireless communication options including push to talk, cellular service,
text messaging, wireless internet access, and wireless data. Its system covers approximately
127,000 square miles in the Southeast. SouthernLINC Wireless also provides wholesale fiber optic
solutions to telecommunication providers in the Southeast under the name Southern Telecom.

On January 25, 2010, Southern Renewable Energy was formed to construct, acquire, own, and manage
renewable generation assets. On March 12, 2010, Southern Renewable Energy and Turner Renewable
Energy acquired from First Solar, Inc. the Cimarron project, a 30-megawatt solar photovoltaic plant
near Cimarron, New Mexico. On November 25, 2010, the Cimarron plant began commercial operation.

These efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities offer potential returns exceeding
those of rate-regulated operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of
risk.

I-3






Construction Programs

The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs
to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. For estimated
construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2011 through 2013, see Note 7 to the
financial statements of Southern Company and each traditional operating company under “Construction
Program” and Note 7 to the financial statements of Southern Power under “Expansion Program” in Item
8 herein. Base level estimated construction costs in 2011 are expected to be apportioned
approximately as follows: (in millions)

SouthernCompanyAlabamaGeorgiaGulfMississippiSouthernSystem *PowerPowerPowerPowerPowerNew Generation$2,171$—$934$—$665$572Environmental **341477317645—Transmission & Distribution Growth5301233493920—Maintenance (Generation,
Transmission & Distribution)1,27053248915479—Nuclear fuel299129170———General plant278869512927Total ***$4,889$917$2,110$381$818$599



*These amounts include the traditional operating companies and Southern Power (as detailed in
the table above) as well as the amounts for the other subsidiaries. See “Other Businesses”
herein for additional information.**These amounts reflect estimated capital expenditures in 2011 to comply with existing statutes
and regulations. In addition, each of Southern Company and the traditional operating
companies has estimated of a range of potential incremental investments to comply with
proposed environmental regulations. These additional estimated amounts for 2011 are: from $74
million to $289 million for the Southern Company system; up to $48 million for Alabama Power;
from $69 million to $289 million for Georgia Power; and up to $17 million for Gulf Power.
Mississippi Power and Southern Power have no anticipated incremental
investments to comply with anticipated new environmental regulation in 2011.***The estimated 2011 total for Southern Power includes cash
payments for  long-term service agreements.

The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction
costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in
business conditions; changes in load projections; changes in environmental statutes and
regulations; changes in generating plants, including unit retirement and replacement decisions, to
meet new regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; PSC approvals; changes in
legislation; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; project scope
and design changes; storm impacts; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance
that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

See “Regulation – Environmental Statutes and Regulations” herein for additional information with
respect to certain existing and proposed environmental requirements and PROPERTIES –
“Jointly-Owned Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information concerning Alabama Power’s,
Georgia Power’s, and Southern Power’s joint ownership of certain generating units and related
facilities with certain non-affiliated utilities.



Financing Programs

See each of the registrant’s MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
LIQUIDITY in Item 7 herein and Note 6 to the financial statements of each registrant in Item 8
herein for information concerning financing programs.

I-4






Fuel Supply

The traditional operating companies’ and SEGCO’s supply of electricity is derived mainly from
coal. Southern Power’s supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas. See MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – “Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses” of Southern
Company and each traditional operating company in Item 7 herein for information regarding the
electricity generated and the average cost of fuel in cents per net kilowatt-hour generated for the
years 2008 through 2010.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, has agreements in
place for the natural gas burn requirements of the Southern Company system. For 2011, SCS has
contracted for 255 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply under agreements with remaining terms
up to 10 years. In addition to gas supply, SCS has contracts in place for both firm gas
transportation and storage. Management believes that these contracts provide sufficient natural
gas supplies, transportation, and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company
system’s natural gas generating units.

Changes in fuel prices to the traditional operating companies are generally reflected in fuel
adjustment clauses contained in rate schedules. See “Rate Matters – Rate Structure and Cost
Recovery Plans” herein for additional information. Southern Power’s PPAs generally provide that
the counterparty is responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have numerous contracts covering a portion of their nuclear fuel
needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services, and fuel fabrication. These contracts
have varying expiration dates and most of them are for less than 10 years. Management believes
that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment
of normal operations of the Southern Company system’s nuclear generating units.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE, that
provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of
spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power are pursuing
legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. See Note 3 to the financial
statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power under “Nuclear Fuel Disposal
Costs” in Item 8 herein for additional information.



Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern Power

The territory in which the traditional operating companies provide electric service comprises
most of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the northwestern portion of Florida and
southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems
which obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the
traditional operating companies. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles
and an estimated population of approximately 13 million. Southern Power sells electricity at
market-based prices in the wholesale market to investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and
electric cooperatives.

I-5




Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and purchase of
electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity at retail in over 650
communities (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery, and Tuscaloosa), as well
as in rural areas, and at wholesale to 15 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, 11 of
which are served indirectly through sales to AMEA, and two rural distributing cooperative
associations. Alabama Power owns coal reserves near its Plant Gorgas and uses the output of coal
from the reserves in its generating plants. Alabama Power also sells, and cooperates with dealers
in promoting the sale of, electric appliances.

Georgia Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission,
distribution, and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia at retail in over 600
communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome, and Savannah), as well as
in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to OPC, MEAG Power, Dalton, Hampton, and various
electric membership corporations.

Gulf Power is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the generation and purchase
of electricity and the transmission, distribution, and sale of such electricity at retail in 71
communities (including Pensacola, Panama City, and Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas,
and at wholesale to a non-affiliated utility and a municipality.

Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the transmission,
distribution, and sale of such electricity within 23 counties in southeastern Mississippi, at
retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian, and
Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric
distribution cooperative associations, and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

For information relating to kilowatt-hour sales by customer classification for the traditional
operating companies, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of each
traditional operating company in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of
revenues for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, and Southern Power, reference is
made to Item 7 herein.

The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or corporations to enable them to
provide electric service to customers in rural sections of the country. There are 71 electric
cooperative organizations operating in the territory in which the traditional operating companies
provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

One of these organizations, PowerSouth, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power
to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems, and other customers in south Alabama and
northwest Florida. PowerSouth owns generating units with approximately 1,776 megawatts of
nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in Alabama Power’s Plant Miller
Units 1 and 2. PowerSouth’s facilities were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts
requiring distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from PowerSouth to the extent such
energy is available.

Alabama Power and Gulf Power have entered into separate agreements with PowerSouth involving
interconnection between their respective systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from
PowerSouth to certain distributing cooperatives in the service areas of Alabama Power and Gulf
Power is governed by the Southern Company/PowerSouth Network Transmission Service Agreement. The
rates for this service to PowerSouth are on file with the FERC. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned
Facilities” in Item 2 herein for details of Alabama Power’s joint-ownership with PowerSouth of a
portion of Plant Miller.

Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within Gulf Power’s service
area. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from PowerSouth and SEPA (a federal
power marketing agency). A non-affiliated utility also operates within Gulf Power’s service area
and purchases its full requirements from Gulf Power.

Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with SMEPA, a generating and transmitting
cooperative, pursuant to which various services are provided, including the furnishing of
protective capacity by Mississippi Power to

I-6




SMEPA. On July 27, 2010, Mississippi Power and SMEPA entered into an asset purchase agreement
whereby SMEPA will purchase an undivided 17.5% interest in the Kemper IGCC. The closing of this
transaction is conditioned upon execution of a joint ownership and operating agreement, receipt of
all construction permits, appropriate regulatory approvals, financing, and other conditions. On
December 2, 2010, Mississippi Power and SMEPA filed a joint petition with the Mississippi PSC
requesting regulatory approval for SMEPA’s 17.5% ownership of the Kemper IGCC.

There are also 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in
which the traditional operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

Forty-eight municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system receive
their requirements through MEAG Power, which was established by a Georgia state statute in 1975.
MEAG Power serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are
jointly-owned with Georgia Power, power purchased from Georgia Power, and purchases from other
resources. MEAG Power also has a pseudo scheduling and services agreement with Georgia Power.
Dalton serves its requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are
jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and through purchases from Georgia Power and Southern Power
through a service agreement. In addition, Georgia Power serves the full requirements of Hampton’s
electric distribution system under a market-based contract. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned
Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia Transmission
Corporation (formerly OPC’s transmission division), MEAG Power, and Dalton providing for the
establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of all parties.
The agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in
proportion to its respective share of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned
Facilities” in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Southern Power has PPAs with some of the traditional operating companies and with other
investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and electric cooperatives. See MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “Power Sales Agreements” of Southern Power
in Item 7 herein for additional information concerning Southern Power’s PPAs.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA
providing for the use of the traditional operating companies’ facilities at government expense to
deliver to certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in
the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated
to them by SEPA from certain United States government hydroelectric projects.

Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued “Grandfather Certificates” of public
convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating
in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them
to distribute electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state. The
six cooperatives serve approximately 325,000 retail customers in a certificated area of
approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a “Grandfather Certificate,” the utility
holding such certificate may, without further certification, extend its lines up to five miles;
other extensions within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except
upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and necessity. Areas
included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be
served by the holder of the certificate, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing
municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into
such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.



Competition

The electric utility industry in the United States is continuing to evolve as a result of
regulatory and competitive factors. Among the early primary agents of change was the Energy Act of
1992 which allowed IPPs to access a utility’s transmission network in order to sell electricity to
other utilities.

The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by
various factors,

I-7




including price, availability, technological advancements, service, and reliability. These factors
are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory, political, and environmental
considerations, taxation, and supply.

The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the
Territorial Electric Service Act of 1973. Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, all areas within
existing municipal limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier therein. Areas outside of
such municipal limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer choice of
supplier by action of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth in this Act. Consistent with
such standards, the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a
supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides that any new customer locating
outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 kilowatts may exercise
a one-time choice for the life of the premises to receive electric service from the supplier of its
choice.

Generally, the traditional operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in varying degrees as the
result of self-generation (as described below) by customers and other factors.

Southern Power competes with investor owned utilities, IPPs, and others for wholesale energy sales
primarily in the Southeastern United States wholesale market. The needs of this market are driven
by the demands of end users in the Southeast and the generation available. Southern Power’s
success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and
availability of Southern Power’s plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price,
and Southern Power’s ability to contain costs.

Alabama Power currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with 10 industrial customers. Under
the terms of these contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess generation of such companies. During
2010, Alabama Power purchased approximately 194 million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a
cost of $8.2 million.

Georgia Power currently has contracts in effect with 11 small power producers whereby Georgia Power
purchases their excess generation. During 2010, Georgia Power purchased 45 million kilowatt-hours
from such companies at a cost of $1.6 million. Georgia Power has PPAs for electricity with two
cogeneration facilities. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to meet minimum capacity
output. During 2010, Georgia Power purchased 178 million kilowatt-hours at a cost of $27.7 million
from these facilities.

Also during 2010, Georgia Power purchased energy from eight customer-owned generating facilities.
Seven of the eight customers provide only energy to Georgia Power. These seven customers make no
capacity commitment and are not dispatched by Georgia Power. Georgia Power does have a contract
with the remaining customer for eight megawatts of dispatchable capacity and energy. During 2010,
Georgia Power purchased a total of 49 million kilowatt-hours from the eight customers at a cost of
approximately $1.9 million.

Gulf Power currently has agreements in effect with various industrial, commercial, and qualifying
facilities pursuant to which Gulf Power purchases “as available” energy from customer-owned
generation. During 2010, Gulf Power purchased 111.7 million kilowatt-hours from such companies for
approximately $6.3 million.

Mississippi Power currently has a cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial
customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation.
During 2010, Mississippi Power did not purchase any excess generation from this customer.



Seasonality

The demand for electric power generation is affected by seasonal differences in the weather.
At the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, the demand for power peaks during the
summer months, with market prices reflecting the demand of power and available generating resources
at that time. Power demand peaks can also be recorded during the winter. As a result, the overall
operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in
the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Southern Company, the
traditional operating companies, and Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather
conditions are milder.

I-8






Regulation

State Commissions

The traditional operating
companies are subject to the jurisdiction of their respective state PSCs.
The PSCs have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the
respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the
Mississippi PSC), and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail
service territories. See “Territory Served by the Traditional Operating Companies and Southern
Power” and “Rate Matters” herein for additional information.

Federal Power Act

The traditional operating companies,
Southern Power and its generation subsidiaries, SEGCO, and
Southern Renewable Energy’s generation subsidiary are all public utilities engaged in
wholesale sales of energy in interstate commerce and therefore are subject to the rate, financial,
and accounting jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. The FERC must approve certain
financings and allows an “at cost standard” for services rendered by system service companies such
as SCS. The FERC is also authorized to establish regional reliability organizations which are
authorized to enforce reliability standards, to address impediments to the construction of
transmission, and to prohibit manipulative energy trading practices.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the
earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect to their hydroelectric
developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing
Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,662,400 kilowatts and
18 existing Georgia Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,087,296
kilowatts.

In July 2005, Alabama Power filed two applications with the FERC for new 50-year licenses for its
seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay, Mitchell,
Jordan, and Bouldin) and for the Lewis Smith and Bankhead developments on the Warrior River. The
FERC licenses for all of these nine developments expired in July and August 2007. Since the FERC
did not act on any of the new license applications prior to the expiration of the existing
licenses, the FERC is required by law to issue annual licenses under the terms and conditions of
the existing licenses, until action is taken on the new license applications. The FERC issued an
annual license to the Coosa developments in August 2007, which was automatically renewed in 2008,
2009, and 2010. On March 31, 2010, the FERC issued a new 30-year license for the Lewis Smith and
Bankhead developments on the Warrior River. The new license authorizes Alabama Power to continue
operating these facilities in a manner consistent with past operations. On April 30, 2010, a
stakeholders group filed a request for rehearing of the FERC order issuing the new license. On May
27, 2010, the FERC granted the rehearing request for the limited purpose of allowing the FERC
additional time to consider the substantive issues in the request.

In 2006, Alabama Power initiated the process of developing an application to relicense the Martin
hydroelectric project located on the Tallapoosa River. The current Martin license will expire in
2013 and the application for a new license is expected to be filed with the FERC in 2011. In 2010,
Alabama Power initiated the process of developing an application to relicense the Holt
hydroelectric project located on Warrior River. The current Holt license will expire in August
2015 and the application for a new license is expected to be filed prior to that time.

In 2007, Georgia Power began the relicensing process for Bartlett’s Ferry which is located on the
Chattahoochee River near Columbus, Georgia. The current Bartlett’s Ferry license expires in 2014
and the application for a new license is expected to be submitted to the FERC in 2012.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. See MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – “FERC Matters” of Alabama Power in Item 7
herein for additional information.

Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky Mountain Plant, a pure
pumped storage facility of 847,800 kilowatt capacity. See PROPERTIES – “Jointly-Owned Facilities”
in Item 2 herein for additional information.

I-9




Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the period 2023-2034 in the
case of Alabama Power’s projects and in the period 2020-2039 in the case of Georgia Power’s
projects.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the United States Government, by act of Congress, may
take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a
new licensee. In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be
compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to
reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the fair value of the
property, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance
therefrom of the property.

Nuclear Regulation

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Nuclear are subject to regulation by the NRC. The NRC
is responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting
research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act
of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear
Nonproliferation Act of 1978; and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969,
as amended, and other applicable statutes. These responsibilities also include protecting public
health and safety, protecting the environment, protecting and safeguarding nuclear materials and
nuclear power plants in the interest of national security, and assuring conformity with antitrust
laws.

In January 2002, the NRC extended the licenses of Georgia Power’s Plant Hatch Units 1 and 2 until
2034 and 2038, respectively. In May 2005, the NRC extended the licenses of Alabama Power’s Plant
Farley Units 1 and 2 until 2037 and 2041, respectively. In June 2009, the NRC extended the
licenses of Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 to 2047 and 2049, respectively.

In August 2009, the NRC issued an Early Site Permit and Limited Work Authorization to Southern
Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power, OPC, MEAG Power, and City of Dalton (collectively, Owners),
related to two additional nuclear units on the site of Plant Vogtle (Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4).
In March 2008, Southern Nuclear filed an application with the NRC for a combined construction and
operating license (COL) for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which, if licensed by the NRC, are scheduled to
be placed in service in 2016 and 2017, respectively.
Georgia Power currently expects to receive the Vogtle  3 and 4
COLs from the NRC in late 2011 based on the NRC’s February 16,
2011 release of its COL schedule framework.

See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS —
FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction — Nuclear” of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3
to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power -
Nuclear Construction” and Georgia Power under “Construction — Nuclear” in Item 8 herein for
additional information.

See Notes 1 and 9 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia Power
in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance.

Environmental Statutes and Regulations

Southern Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal
environmental agencies under a variety of statutes and regulations governing environmental media,
including air, water, and land resources. Compliance with these existing environmental
requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected
to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions or market-based rates for Southern Power.
There is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered.

Compliance with the federal Clean Air Act and resulting regulations has been, and will continue to
be, a significant focus for Southern Company, each traditional operating company, Southern Power,
and SEGCO. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be changed or new laws and
regulations may be adopted or otherwise become applicable to Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, Southern Power, or SEGCO, including laws and regulations designed to address
global climate change, air quality, water quality, management of waste materials and coal
combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other environmental, public health, and welfare
concerns. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental
Matters” of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in

I-10




Item 7 herein for additional information about the Clean Air Act and other environmental issues,
including, but not limited to, the litigation brought by the EPA under the New Source Review
provisions of the Clean Air Act, possible additional and/or revised regulations related to air and
water quality, possible climate change legislation and regulation, and possible regulation of coal
combustion byproducts. Also see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL
— “Environmental Matters” of Southern Power in Item 7 herein for information about environmental
issues, possible climate change legislation and regulation and possible regulation of coal
combustion byproducts.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, Southern Power, and SEGCO are unable to
predict at this time what additional steps they may be required to take as a result of the
implementation of existing or future requirements pertaining to climate change, air quality, water
quality, and management of waste materials and coal combustion byproducts, including coal ash, but
such steps could adversely affect system operations and result in substantial additional costs.
For example, potential regulations relating to air quality could require the installation of
additional environmental controls, potential regulations relating to water quality could require
the installation of cooling towers at certain existing generating units, and potential regulations
relating to coal combustion byproducts could require closure of or significant change to existing
storage units and construction of lined landfills, as well as additional waste management and
groundwater monitoring requirements.

Depending on the final outcome of the wide range of proposed environmental regulations currently
under consideration by the EPA, the retirement and replacement of certain existing generating units
may be more economically efficient than installing required controls necessary to remain in
compliance. In addition, while the outcome of these matters cannot now be determined, potential
additional environmental regulations could result in delays in obtaining appropriate licenses for
generating facilities, increased construction and operating costs, or reduced generation, the
nature and extent of which, while not determinable at this time, could be substantial. See
“Construction Program” herein for additional information.



Rate Matters

Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans

The rates and service regulations of the traditional operating companies are uniform for each class
of service throughout their respective service areas. Rates for residential electric service are
generally of the block type based upon kilowatt-hours used and include minimum charges.
Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are
presently of the block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to
determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers’ rates are generally based upon
usage by the customer and include rates with special features to encourage off-peak usage.
Additionally, Alabama Power, Gulf Power, and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their
respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms
and cost of service, however, are subject to final state PSC approval.

Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions at
the traditional operating companies. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect
increases or decreases in such costs as needed. Gulf Power’s and Mississippi Power’s fuel cost
recovery provisions are adjusted annually to reflect increases or decreases in such costs. Georgia
Power is currently required to file its next fuel case by March 1, 2011, with a new rate to be effective June
1, 2011. Alabama Power’s fuel cost recovery rates are adjusted
as required; a new rate
is scheduled to be effective on April 1, 2011. Revenues are adjusted for differences between
recoverable costs and amounts actually recovered in current rates.

Approved environmental compliance and storm damage costs are recovered at Alabama Power and
Mississippi Power through cost recovery provisions approved by their respective state PSCs. Within
limits approved by their respective PSCs, these rates are adjusted to reflect increases or
decreases in such costs as required.

Georgia Power’s environmental compliance costs are recovered through its ECCR tariff. On December
21, 2010, the Georgia PSC voted to approve the 2010 ARP effective January 1, 2011 and continuing
through December 31, 2013 under which the ECCR tariff has been continued. See Note 3 to the
financial statements of Southern Company

I-11




under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Retail Rate Plans” and Georgia Power under
“Retail Regulatory Matters — Rate Plans” in Item 8 herein for additional information.

See “Integrated Resource Planning” herein for a discussion of Georgia PSC certification of new
demand-side or supply-side resources for Georgia Power. In addition, see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Construction — Nuclear” of Georgia Power in Item 7
herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters
— Georgia Power — Nuclear Construction” and Georgia Power under “Construction — Nuclear” in Item
8 herein for a discussion of the Georgia Nuclear Energy Financing Act and the Georgia PSC
certification of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which allow Georgia Power to recover financing costs
for construction of the new nuclear units during the construction period beginning in 2011. On
December 21, 2010, as a part of the 2010 ARP, the Georgia PSC approved Georgia Power’s Nuclear
Construction Cost Recovery tariff effective January 1, 2011.

Alabama Power recovers the cost of certificated new plant and purchased power capacity through cost
recovery provisions which are approved annually. Gulf Power files a rate clause request annually
with the Florida PSC to recover costs associated with purchased power capacity, energy
conservation, and environmental compliance. Revenues are adjusted for differences between
recoverable costs and amounts actually recovered in current rates.

See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “PSC Matters” of Southern
Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the
financial statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters” and Note 3 to the
financial statements of each of the traditional operating companies under “Retail Regulatory
Matters” in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters. Also, see Note 1 to the financial
statements of Southern Company and each of the traditional operating companies in Item 8 herein for
a discussion of recovery of fuel costs, storm damage costs, and environmental compliance costs
through rates.

The traditional operating companies,
Southern Power and its generation subsidiaries, and Southern Renewable
Energy’s generation subsidiary are authorized
by the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at
market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based
contract with an affiliate.

Integrated Resource Planning

Each of the traditional operating companies continually evaluates its electric generating resources
in order to ensure that it maintains a cost-effective and reliable mix of resources to meet the
existing and future demand requirements of its customers. See “Environmental Statutes and
Regulations” above for a discussion of existing and potential environmental regulations that may
impact the future generating resource needs of the traditional operating companies.

Certain of the traditional operating companies periodically file IRPs with their respective state
PSC. The following is a summary of the most recent IRP filings by certain of the traditional
operating companies.

Georgia Power

Triennially, Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to
meet the future electrical needs of its customers through a combination of demand-side and
supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC, under state law, must certify any new demand-side or
supply-side resources for Georgia Power to get cost recovery. Once certified, the lesser of actual
or certified construction costs and purchased power costs is recoverable through rates.

On January 29, 2010, Georgia Power filed its 2010 IRP with the Georgia PSC. The 2010 IRP projected
that Georgia Power’s current supply-side and demand-side resources are sufficient to provide a
cost-effective and reliable source of capacity and energy at least through 2014. The 2010 IRP
identified a number of potential new or modified federal environmental statutes and regulations
that could significantly impact Georgia Power’s existing coal-fired generating units. In addition,
under the State of Georgia’s Multi-Pollutant Rule, Georgia Power is required to install specific
emissions controls on certain coal-fired generating units by specific dates between December 31,
2008 and June 1, 2015. See “Environmental Statutes and Regulations” above.

I-12




On July 6, 2010, the Georgia PSC approved Georgia Power’s 2010 IRP including the following
provisions: (1) restarting an RFP to enable the potential replacement of coal units that may be
retired beginning in approximately 2015; (2) expanding energy efficiency efforts; (3) implementing
seven new demand-side management and energy efficiency programs; (4) collecting incentives totaling
10% of the net benefit of energy efficiency programs annually, with certain conditions, for the
certified programs; (5) developing a one megawatt self-build portfolio of solar photovoltaic
demonstration projects; (6) delaying capital spending on the conversion of Plant Mitchell Unit 3
from a coal-fired generating unit to a renewable biomass generating unit until the EPA issues
applicable maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards under the Clean Air Act; (7)
considering conversion of additional coal units to biomass, if such conversions appear to be
economic and feasible; and (8) continuing to suspend work on environmental controls for Units 6 and
7 at Plant Yates and Units 1 and 2 at Plant Branch until the EPA issues applicable MACT standards
and regulations for coal combustion byproducts.

In addition, Georgia Power’s 2010 IRP reflected the construction of Plant McDonough Units 4, 5, and
6 (natural gas) and Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 (nuclear) as certified by the Georgia PSC in 2007
and 2009, respectively. In addition, the 2010 IRP also reflected the related retirement of Plant
McDonough Units 1 and 2 (coal), which were decertified by the Georgia PSC in connection with
construction of the new units. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS
POTENTIAL — “Construction” of Georgia Power in Item 7 herein and Note 3 to the financial
statements of Southern Company under “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Nuclear
Construction” and “Retail Regulatory Matters — Georgia Power — Other Construction” in Item 8
herein and Note 3 to the financial statements of Georgia Power under “Construction” in Item 8
herein for additional information

Georgia Power currently expects to file an update to its IRP in June 2011. Georgia Power is
continuing to analyze the potential costs and benefits of installing environmental controls on its
remaining coal-fired generating units in light of the potential new or modified environmental
regulations. As contemplated in the 2010 IRP, Georgia Power may determine that retiring and
replacing certain of these existing units with new generating resources or purchased power is more
economically efficient than installing the required environmental controls. On April 20, 2010,
Georgia Power issued an RFP for approximately 1,000 megawatts to assure a reliable and economic
supply in the event replacement capacity is needed and is currently negotiating with counterparties
that offered the most competitive proposals. Certification of any needed resources procured
through the RFP would be expected by approximately February 2012.

Under the terms of Georgia Power’s 2010 ARP, any costs associated with changes to Georgia Power’s
approved environmental operating or capital budgets (resulting from new or revised environmental
regulations) through 2013 that are approved by the Georgia PSC in connection with Georgia Power’s
updated IRP will be deferred as a regulatory asset to be recovered over a time period deemed
appropriate by the Georgia PSC. Such costs that may be deferred as a regulatory asset include any
impairment losses that may result from a decision to retire certain units that are no longer cost
effective in light of new or modified environmental regulations. In addition, in connection with
Georgia Power’s 2010 ARP, the Georgia PSC also approved revised depreciation rates that will
recover the remaining book value of certain of Georgia Power’s existing coal-fired units by
December 31, 2014.

In addition, Georgia Power expects to file a request with the Georgia PSC in spring 2011 for the
certification of 562 megawatts of certain wholesale capacity that will be returned to retail
service on January 1, 2015 (312 megawatts) and April 1, 2016 (250 megawatts). On September 20,
2010, the Georgia PSC accepted Georgia Power’s offer to return this generating capacity to retail
service.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Gulf Power

Annually by April 1, Gulf Power must file a 10-year site plan with the Florida PSC containing Gulf
Power’s estimate of its power-generating needs in the period and the general location of its
proposed power plant sites. The 10-year site plans submitted by the state’s electric utilities are
reviewed by the Florida PSC and subsequently classified as either “suitable” or “unsuitable.” The
Florida PSC then reports its findings along with any suggested revisions to the Florida Department
of Environmental Protection for its consideration at any subsequent electrical

I-13




Gulf Power’s most recent 10-year site plan was classified by the Florida PSC as “suitable” in
December 2010. Gulf Power’s most recent 10-year site plan and environmental compliance plan
identify potential environmental regulations relating to maximum achievable control technology for
hazardous air pollutants and potential legislation or regulation that would impose mandatory
restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE
EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters — Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Air
Quality,” “Environmental Matters — Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Coal Combustion
Byproducts,” and “Environmental Matters — Global Climate Issues” of Gulf Power in Item 7 herein.
The site plan and environmental compliance plan include preliminary retirement studies under a
variety of potential scenarios for units at each of Gulf Power’s coal-fired generating plants.
These studies indicate that, depending on the final requirements in these anticipated EPA
regulations and any legislation or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions, as well as
estimates of long-term fuel prices, Gulf Power may conclude that it is more economical to retire
certain of its coal-fired generating units prior to 2020 and to replace such units with new or
purchased capacity.

Also in December 2009, the Florida PSC adopted new numerical conservation goals for Gulf Power
along with other electric utilities in the state. The Florida PSC adopted more aggressive goals
due in part to the consideration of possible greenhouse gas emissions costs incurred in connection
with possible climate change legislation and a change in the manner in which the Florida PSC
considers the effect of so-called “free-riders” on the level of conservation reasonably achievable
through utility programs. Gulf Power’s plans and programs to meet the new goals were submitted to
the Florida PSC for review on March 30, 2010 and were approved on January 25, 2011. The costs of
implementing Gulf Power’s conservation plans and programs are recovered through specific
conservation recovery rates set annually by the Florida PSC.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mississippi Power

In December 2009, Mississippi Power filed its 2010 IRP with the Mississippi PSC. The filing was
made in connection with the Mississippi PSC certification proceedings relating to a new electric
generating plant located in Kemper County, Mississippi that would utilize an IGCC technology. In
the 2010 IRP, Mississippi Power projected that it will have a need for new capacity in the 2013 to
2015 timeframe. The 2010 IRP indicated a need range of approximately 200 megawatts to 300
megawatts in 2014, which reflects growth in load and the anticipated retirement of older gas steam
units Plant Eaton Units 1 through 3 and Plant Watson Units 1 through 3 in 2012 and 2013,
respectively. In addition, due to potential retirements of existing coal units, the Mississippi
PSC found a need in 2015 that ranges from 304 megawatts to 1,276 megawatts.

The range of needs for 2015 is based on potential environmental regulations relating to maximum
achievable control technology for hazardous air pollutants, as well as potential legislation or
regulations that would impose mandatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. See
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS — FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL — “Environmental Matters —
Environmental Statutes and Regulations — Air Quality” and “Environmental Matters — Global Climate
Issues” of Mississippi Power in Item 7 herein. Depending on the final

I-14




requirements in the anticipated EPA regulations and any legislation or regulation relating to
greenhouse gas emissions, as well as estimates of long-term fuel prices, Mississippi Power may
conclude that it is more economical to discontinue burning coal at certain coal-fired generating
units than to install the required controls.

Mississippi Power’s 2010 IRP indicated that Mississippi Power plans to construct the Kemper IGCC to
meet its identified needs, to add environmental controls at Plant Daniel Units 1 and 2, to defer
environmental controls at Plant Watson Units 4 and 5, and to continue operation of the combined
cycle Plant Daniel Units 3 and 4.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Mississippi Base Load Construction Legislation

In the 2008 regular session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill was passed and signed by the
Governor in May 2008 to enhance the Mississippi PSC’s authority to facilitate development and
construction of base load generation in the State of Mississippi (Baseload Act). The Baseload
Act authorizes, but does not require, the Mississippi PSC to adopt a cost recovery mechanism
that includes in retail base rates, prior to and during construction, all or a portion of the
prudently incurred pre-construction and construction costs incurred by a utility in constructing
a base load electric generating plant. Prior to the passage of the Baseload Act, such costs
would traditionally be recovered only after the plant was placed in service. The Baseload Act
also provides for periodic prudence reviews by the Mississippi PSC and prohibits the
cancellation of any such generating plant without the approval of the Mississippi PSC. In the
event of cancellation of the construction of the plant without approval of the Mississippi PSC,
the Baseload Act authorizes the Mississippi PSC to make a public interest determination as to
whether and to what extent the utility will be afforded rate recovery for costs incurred in
connection with such cancelled generating plant. The effect of this legislation on Southern
Company and Mississippi Power cannot now be determined.

In January 2009, Mississippi Power filed for a CPCN with the Mississippi PSC to allow construction
of the Kemper IGCC. On April 29, 2010, the Mississippi PSC issued an order finding that
Mississippi Power’s application to acquire, construct, and operate the plant did not satisfy the
requirement of public convenience and necessity in the form that the project and the related cost
recovery were originally proposed by Mississippi Power, unless Mississippi Power accepted certain
conditions on the issuance of the CPCN, including a cost cap of approximately $2.4 billion. On May
10, 2010, Mississippi Power filed a motion in response to the April 29, 2010 order of the
Mississippi PSC relating to the Kemper IGCC, or in the alternative, for alteration or rehearing of
such order.

On May 26, 2010, the Mississippi PSC issued an order revising its findings from the April 29, 2010
order. Among other things, the Mississippi PSC’s May 26, 2010 order approved an alternate
construction cost cap of up to $2.88 billion (and any amounts that fall within specified exemptions
from the cost cap; such exemptions include the costs of the lignite
mine and equipment and the carbon dioxide pipeline facilities), subject to
determinations by the Mississippi PSC that such costs in excess of $2.4 billion are prudent and
required by the public convenience and necessity. On May 27, 2010, Mississippi Power filed a
motion with the Mississippi PSC accepting the conditions contained in the order. On June 3, 2010,
the Mississippi PSC issued the final certificate order which granted Mississippi Power’s motion and
issued a CPCN authorizing acquisition, construction, and operation of the plant. The Kemper IGCC,
subject to federal and state reviews and certain regulatory approvals, is expected to begin
commercial operation in May 2014. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and
Mississippi Power in Item 8 herein for additional information.

I-15






Employee Relations

The Southern Company system had a total of 25,940 employees on its payroll at December 31,
2010.

Employees at December 31, 2010Alabama Power6,552Georgia Power8,330Gulf Power1,330Mississippi Power1,280SCS4,465Southern Holdings*—Southern Nuclear3,676Southern Power**—Other307Total25,940



*Southern Holdings has agreements with SCS whereby all employee services are rendered at cost.**Southern Power has no employees. Southern Power has agreements with SCS and the traditional
operating companies whereby employee services are rendered at amounts in compliance with FERC
regulations.

The traditional operating companies have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW
generally covering wages, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and
arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance, and
construction employees.

Alabama Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions which is in
effect through August 15, 2014.

Georgia Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in
effect through June 30, 2011. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations
will be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Gulf Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect
through September 14, 2014.

Mississippi Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in
effect through August 15, 2014.

Southern Nuclear and the IBEW ratified a labor agreement for certain employees at Plants Hatch and
Vogtle on May 21, 2009. The agreement is effective through June 30, 2011. Upon notice given at
least 60 days prior to June 30, 2011, negotiations may be initiated with respect to a new agreement
after such date. A five-year agreement between Southern Nuclear and the IBEW representing certain
employees at Plant Farley was ratified on July 8, 2009. The agreement became effective on August
15, 2009 and will remain in effect through August 15, 2014.

Following certification of the United Government Security Officers of America (UGSOA) as the
bargaining representative for Southern Nuclear Security Officers at Plant Farley in April 2010,
negotiations continue between the UGSOA and Southern Nuclear. A
collective bargaining agreement has not yet been ratified.

The agreements also make the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above subject
to collective bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon
union and company actions.

I-16






