
10-K405


                                    FORM 10-K
                                        
                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994        Commission File Number 1-6351
                                        
                                        
                              ELI LILLY AND COMPANY
                                        
        An Indiana Corporation          I.R.S. Employer Number 35-0470950
                                        
         Address:   Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285
                                        
             Telephone number, including area code:   (317) 276-2000
                                        
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                              Name Of Each Exchange
       Title Of Each Class                     On Which Registered
       -------------------                    ---------------------
          Common Stock                       New York Stock Exchange
                                               Pacific Stock Exchange

Contingent Payment Obligation Units          American Stock Exchange

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights              New York Stock Exchange
                                               Pacific Stock Exchange

8-1/8% Notes Due December 1, 2001            New York Stock Exchange

8-3/8% Notes Due December 1, 2006            New York Stock Exchange

       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days. Yes   X   No
                       ---      ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy statement
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. (X)

Aggregate market value of voting stock of the Registrant held by non-affiliates
as of February 10, 1995 (Common Stock):  $15,909,739,084

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 10, 1995:
292,260,706

Portions of the following documents have been incorporated by reference into
this report:

          Document                               Parts Into Which Incorporated
          --------                               -----------------------------
Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders             Parts I, II, and IV
    for fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 6, 1995       Part III
                                        
                                     PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS

   Eli Lilly and Company was incorporated in 1901 under the laws of Indiana to
succeed to the drug manufacturing business founded in Indianapolis, Indiana, in
1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly.  The Company*, including its subsidiaries, is engaged
in the discovery, development, manufacture, and sale of products and the
provision of services in one industry segment----Life Sciences.  Products are
manufactured or distributed through owned or leased facilities in the United
States, Puerto Rico, and 26 other countries, in 19 of which the Company owns or
has an interest in manufacturing facilities.  Its products are sold in
approximately 117 countries.  Through its PCS Health Systems subsidiary, the
Company provides pharmacy benefit management services in the United States.

   Most of the Company's products were discovered or developed through the
Company's research and development activities, and the success of the Company's
business depends to a great extent on the introduction of new products resulting
from these research and development activities.  Research efforts are primarily
directed toward the discovery of products to diagnose and treat diseases in
human beings and animals and to increase the efficiency of animal food
production.  Research efforts are also directed toward developing medical
devices.


                               RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
                                        
Divestiture of Medical Device and Diagnostics Businesses

   On January 18, 1994, the Company announced its intent to divest itself of
its medical device and diagnostics ("MDD") businesses.  During the year, the
Company completed the following transactions in furtherance of its divestiture
plan:
   
   Formation of Guidant Corporation; Initial Public Offering.  In September,
1994, the Company formed Guidant Corporation, a Company subsidiary comprising
five of the nine MDD businesses ---- Advanced Cardiovascular Systems, Inc.,
Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc., Devices for Vascular Intervention, Inc., Heart Rhythm
Technologies, Inc. and Origin Medsystems, Inc.  On December 20, 1994, Guidant
completed an initial public offering of approximately 20% of its outstanding
shares of common stock.  The Company currently owns the remaining 80% of the
shares.  Under current plans, which are subject to market and other conditions,
the Company intends to distribute the remaining Guidant shares to Company
shareholders on a tax-free basis in the latter half of 1995 through a "split-
off," an exchange offer pursuant to which Company shareholders would be given
the opportunity to exchange some or all of their Company shares for Guidant
shares.
   
   Sale of Remaining MDD Companies.  During 1994 and early 1995, the Company
sold three of the four MDD companies that are not part of Guidant.  On July 29,
1994, the Company sold Physio-Control Corporation to Bain Capital, Inc.  On
December 30, 1994, the Company sold IVAC Corporation to River Acquisition
Corporation, an affiliate of River Medical Corporation.  Finally, on January 5,
1995, the Company sold Pacific Biotech, Inc. to Quidel Corporation.  The Company
is continuing its efforts to sell the last remaining MDD company, Hybritech
Incorporated.  Any divestiture of Hybritech will be consistent with the
Company's obligations under its Contingent Payment Obligation Units issued in
connection with the Hybritech acquisition.
   
   In light of the divestiture, the results of operations of the MDD businesses
are reflected as "discontinued operations" in the Company's consolidated
statements of income that are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.  For
   comparability, the other financial and quantitative information contained in
this Form 10-K excludes the MDD businesses unless specifically noted to the
contrary.
   
Acquisition of PCS Health Systems, Inc.
   
   On November 21, 1994, the Company acquired PCS Health Systems, Inc. and an
affiliated corporation, Clinical Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (together, "PCS") from
McKesson Corporation for approximately $4.1 billion in cash.  PCS is the largest
provider of pharmacy benefit management services in the United States.  For a
description of PCS's business, see "Pharmacy Benefit Management Services" at
page 3 of this Form 10-K.

                                        
                   FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY
                        SEGMENTS AND CLASSES OF PRODUCTS

   Financial information relating to industry segments and classes of products,
set forth in the Company's 1994 Annual Report at pages 28-29 under "Review of
Operations----Segment Information" (pages 12-13 of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-
K), is incorporated herein by reference.

   Due to several factors, including the introduction of new products by the
Company and other manufacturers, the relative contribution of any particular
Company product to consolidated net sales is not necessarily constant from year
to year, and its contribution to net income is not necessarily the same as its
contribution to consolidated net sales.

                              PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Pharmaceutical Products

    Pharmaceutical products include

        Central-nervous-system agents, including the antidepressant agent
     Prozac(R), a highly specific serotonin uptake inhibitor, indicated for the
     treatment of depression and, in many countries, for bulimia and obsessive-
     compulsive disorder; the analgesic Darvocet-N(R) 100, which is indicated
     for the relief of mild-to-moderate pain; and Permax(R), a treatment for
     Parkinson's disease;
        
        Anti-infectives, including the oral cephalosporin antibiotics Ceclor(R),
     Keflex(R), and Keftab(R), used in the treatment of a wide range of
     bacterial infections; the oral carbacephem antibiotic LorabidTM, used to
     treat a variety of infections; the oral macrolide antibiotic Dynabac(R),
     approved in certain overseas countries; the injectable cephalosporin
     antibiotics Mandol(R), Tazidime(R), Kefurox(R), and Kefzol(R), used to
     treat a wide range of infections in the hospital setting; Nebcin(R), an
     injectable aminoglycoside antibiotic used in hospitals to treat various
     infections caused by staphylococci and Gram-negative bacteria; Vancocin(R)
     HCl, an injectable antibiotic used primarily to treat staphylococcal
     infections; and cefaclor, a generic formulation of Ceclor;
        
        Diabetic care products, including Iletin(R) (insulin) in its various
     pharmaceutical forms; and Humulin(R), human insulin produced through
     recombinant DNA technology;
        
        An antiulcer agent, Axid(R), an H2 antagonist, indicated for the
     treatment of active duodenal ulcer, for maintenance therapy for duodenal
     ulcer patients after healing of an active duodenal ulcer, and for reflux
     esophagitis;
        
        Oncolytic agents, including Oncovin(R), indicated for treatment of acute
     leukemia and, in combination with other oncolytic agents, for treatment of
     several different types of advanced cancers; Velban(R), used in a variety
     of malignant neoplastic conditions; and Eldisine(R), indicated for
     treatment of acute childhood leukemia resistant to other drugs; and
        
        Additional pharmaceuticals, including cardiovascular therapy products,
     principally Dobutrex(R); hormones, including Humatrope(R), human growth
     hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology; hematinics; sedatives; and
     vitamins.

Medical Devices and Diagnostic Products

   Medical devices, marketed by Guidant Corporation, include implantable cardiac
pacemakers and implantable cardioverter/defibrillators, coronary angioplasty
catheter systems, peripheral and coronary atherectomy catheter systems, and
devices for use during minimally-invasive surgery procedures.

   Diagnostic products, marketed by Hybritech Incorporated, include monoclonal-
antibody-based diagnostic tests for colon, prostate, and testicular cancer, as
well as for infertility, pregnancy, heart attack, thyroid deficiencies, anemia,
dwarfism, and infectious diseases.

Animal Health Products

   Animal health products include Tylan(R), an antibiotic used to control
certain diseases in cattle, swine, and poultry and to improve feed efficiency
and growth; Rumensin(R), a cattle feed additive that improves feed efficiency
and growth; Compudose(R), a controlled-release implant that improves feed
efficiency and growth in cattle; Coban(R), Monteban(R) and Maxiban(R),
anticoccidial agents for use in poultry; Apralan(R), an antibiotic used to
control enteric infections in calves and swine; Micotil(R), an antibiotic used
to treat bovine respiratory disease; and other products for livestock and
poultry.

Pharmacy Benefit Management Services

   PCS provides computer-based prescription drug claims processing and pharmacy
benefit design, administration and management services to health plan sponsors,
including insurance companies, third-party administrators, self-insured
employers, health maintenance organizations, and Blue Cross/Blue Shield
organizations that underwrite or administer prescription benefit plans.  PCS
helps these customers manage prescription benefit costs by providing drug
utilization reviews, clinically-based formularies and generic substitution
programs.  PCS also operates an on-line electronic network to transmit medical,
hospital, laboratory, clinical and billing information that links health care
providers (physicians, hospitals and clinics) with health plan sponsors.
RECAP(R), PCS's on-line prescription claims management system, is linked with
over 95% of retail pharmacies in the U.S.
   
   
                                    MARKETING

   Most of the Company's major products are marketed worldwide.  Pharmacy
benefit management services are marketed primarily in the United States.

   In the United States, the Company's Pharmaceutical Division distributes
pharmaceutical products principally through approximately 232 wholesale
distributing outlets.  Marketing policy is designed to assure immediate
availability of these products to physicians, pharmacies, hospitals, and
appropriate health care professionals throughout the country.  Five wholesale
distributing companies in the United States accounted for approximately 13%,
10%, 9%, 8%, and 6% respectively, of consolidated net sales in 1994.  No other
distributor accounted for as much as 5% of consolidated net sales.  The Company
also makes direct sales of its pharmaceutical products to the United States
government and to other manufacturers, but those direct sales do not constitute
a material portion of consolidated net sales.

   The Company's pharmaceutical products are promoted in the United States under
the Lilly and Dista trade names by one hospital and three retail sales forces
employing salaried sales representatives.  These sales representatives,
approximately half of whom are registered pharmacists, call upon physicians,
wholesalers, hospitals, managed-care organizations, retail pharmacists, and
other health care professionals.  Their efforts are supported by the Company
through advertising in medical and drug journals, distribution of literature and
samples of certain products to physicians, and exhibits for use at medical
meetings.  In 1994, the Company created a new sales force dedicated to diabetes
care.
   
   In the past few years, large purchasers of pharmaceuticals, such as managed-
care groups and government and long-term care institutions, have begun to
account for an increasing portion of total pharmaceutical purchases in the
United States.  The Company has created special sales groups to service
government and long-term care institutions, and expanded its managed-care sales
organization.  In response to competitive pressures, the Company has entered
into arrangements with a number of these organizations providing for discounts
or rebates on one or more Company products or other cost-sharing arrangements.
During 1994, the Company also entered into agreements with a generic
pharmaceutical company for the promotion, distribution and/or supply of generic
forms of certain brand name products of both Lilly and other companies.  In
addition, in 1994 the Company formed Integrated Disease Management, Inc. ("IDM")
and acquired Control Diabetes Services, Inc.  IDM will provide disease-
management services, including capitation and risk-sharing arrangements, to
managed-care customers.  Control Diabetes provides education to diabetics to
help them aggressively manage their disease and thereby minimize their long-term
risk of serious complications.

   Outside the United States, pharmaceutical products are promoted by salaried
sales representatives.  While the products marketed vary from country to
country, anti-infectives constitute the largest single group in total sales.
Distribution patterns vary from country to country.  In recent years, the
Company has significantly expanded its marketing efforts in a number of overseas
markets, including emerging markets in Central and Eastern Europe, Latin
America, and Asia.

   Guidant Corporation markets its medical device products in the United States
substantially through its direct sales forces.  Outside the Unites States,
Guidant's products are marketed by both direct sales representative and
independent distributors.
   
   Hybritech Incorporated markets its immunodiagnostic products to hospitals,
commercial laboratories, clinics, and physicians.  Sales are conducted by direct
sales representatives and by independent distributors both inside and outside
the United States.

   Elanco Animal Health, a division of the Company, employs field salespeople
throughout the United States to market animal health products.  Sales are made
to wholesale distributors, retailers, feed manufacturers, or producers in
conformance with varying distribution patterns applicable to the various types
of products.  The Company also has an extensive sales force outside the United
States to market its animal health products.

                                  RAW MATERIALS

   Most of the principal materials used by the Company in manufacturing
operations are chemical, plant, and animal products that are available from more
than one source.  Certain raw materials are available or are purchased
principally from only one source.  Unavailability of certain materials from
present sources could cause an interruption in production pending establishment
of new sources or, in some cases, implementation of alternative processes.

   Although the major portion of the Company's sales abroad are of products
manufactured wholly or in part abroad, a principal source of active ingredients
for these manufactured products continues to be the Company's facilities in the
United States.

                              PATENTS AND LICENSES

   The Company owns, has applications pending for, or is licensed under, a
substantial number of patents, both in the United States and in other countries,
relating to products, product uses, and manufacturing processes.  There can be
no assurance that patents will result from the Company's pending applications.
Moreover, patents relating to particular products, uses, or processes do not
preclude other manufacturers from employing alternative processes or from
successfully marketing substitute products to compete with the patented products
or uses.  Patent protection of certain products, processes, and uses----
particularly that relating to Ceclor,  Humulin, Prozac, Axid, and Lorabid----is
considered to be important to the operations of the Company.  The United States
patent covering Humulin expires in 2001, the Prozac patent expires in 2001, the
Axid patent expires in 2002, and the Lorabid patent expires in 2004.
   
   The United States product patent covering Ceclor, the Company's second
largest selling product, expired in December 1992, and a U.S. patent on a key
intermediate material expired in December 1994.    It has been reported that
several abbreviated new drug applications for generic formulations of cefaclor
(the active ingredient in Ceclor) have been filed in the U.S.  To date, the
Company has experienced only limited competition from generic cefaclor in
markets outside the United States and the Company is not aware that any
competitor has received U.S. FDA approval for the product.  However, the Company
expects that within the near term competitors will be entering the U.S. market
with generic cefaclor.  The Company believes that the quantity of available
competitive product will be limited initially by manufacturing capacity
constraints but that those constraints will likely lessen over time.  In
October, 1994, the Company's subsidiary STC Pharmaceuticals, Inc., entered into
an agreement with Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to market and distribute a generic
form of cefaclor in the U.S.  The Company anticipates that the combined impact
of the continued competition from other anti-infectives and the introduction of
generic cefaclor could have a material adverse effect on the Company's 1995
consolidated results of operations.  However, the Company believes that the
patent expirations and increased competition will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's near-term consolidated financial position.
   
   The United States patent covering Dobutrex expired in October 1993.  The
patent expiration has resulted in a significant decline in U.S. Dobutrex sales.
   
   The Company also grants licenses under patents and know-how developed by the
Company and manufactures and sells products and uses technology and know-how
under licenses from others.  Royalties received by the Company in relation to
licensed pharmaceuticals amounted to approximately $5 million in 1994, and
royalties paid by it in relation to pharmaceuticals amounted to approximately
$89 million in 1994.

                                   COMPETITION

   The Company's pharmaceutical products compete with products manufactured by
numerous other companies in highly competitive markets in the United States and
throughout the world.  Guidant Corporation's medical devices compete with
numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers of  implantable cardiac pacemakers
and cardioverter/defibrillators, angioplasty catheter systems, and minimally-
invasive surgery devices.  Hybritech's diagnostic products compete with
conventional immunodiagnostic assays as well as with monoclonal-antibody-based
products marketed by numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers.  The Company's
animal health products compete on a worldwide basis with products of
pharmaceutical, chemical, and other companies that operate animal health
divisions or subsidiaries.  PCS faces strong competition from other pharmacy
benefit management companies and claims processors in the United States.  For
certain accounts, PCS competes with some retail pharmacy chains, mail order
programs and organized groups of independent pharmacists.

   Important competitive factors include price and demonstrated cost-
effectiveness, product characteristics and dependability, service, and research
and development of new products and processes.  The introduction of new products
and the development of new processes by domestic and foreign companies can
result in progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales of competing
products, or both.  New products introduced with patent protection usually must
compete with other products already on the market at the time of introduction or
products developed by competitors after introduction.  The Company believes its
competitive position in these markets is dependent upon its research and
development endeavors in the discovery and development of new cost-effective
products, together with increased productivity resulting from improved
manufacturing methods, marketing efforts, and customer service.  There can be no
assurance that products manufactured or processes used by the Company will not
become outmoded from time to time as a result of products or processes developed
by its competitors.

                             GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

   The Company's operations have for many years been subject to extensive
regulation by the federal government, to some extent by state governments, and
in varying degrees by foreign governments.  The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act, other federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and
regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern testing,
approval, production, labeling, distribution, post-market surveillance,
advertising, promotion, and in some instances, pricing, of most of the Company's
products.  In addition, the Company's operations are subject to complex federal,
state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations.  It is anticipated
that compliance with regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current
products and the introduction of new products will continue to require
substantial scientific and technical effort, time, and expense and significant
capital investment.
   
   In the United States, health care reform was debated at the federal level in
1994 but no legislation was adopted.  It is expected that Congress will resume
the debate in 1995.  Many state legislatures are also considering health care
reform measures.  The nature of the changes that may ultimately be enacted and
their impact on the Company and the pharmaceutical industry are unknown.
However, several of the measures currently under discussion, if enacted, could
affect the industry and the Company by, among other things, increasing pressures
on pricing and reducing pricing flexibility, restricting physicians' choice of
therapies, and reducing incentives to invest in research and development.
Outside the United States, governments in several countries are implementing
health care cost-control measures that may adversely affect pharmaceutical
industry revenues.  The Company is unable to predict the extent to which its
business may be affected by these or other future legislative and regulatory
developments.

                            RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

   The Company's research and development activities are responsible for the
discovery or development of most of the products offered by the Company today.
Its commitment to research and development dates back more than 100 years.  The
growth in research and development expenditures and personnel over the past
several years demonstrates both the continued vitality of the Company's
commitment and the increasing costs and complexity of bringing new products to
the market.  At the end of 1994, approximately 4,200 people, including a
substantial number who are physicians or scientists holding graduate or
postgraduate degrees or highly skilled technical personnel, were engaged in
pharmaceutical and animal health research and development activities.  The
Company expended $731.0 million on these research and development activities in
1992, $755.0 million in 1993, and $838.7 million in 1994.

   The Company's research is concerned primarily with the effects of synthetic
chemicals and natural products on biological systems.  The results of that
research are applied to the development of products for use by or on humans and
animals, and for other uses.  Major effort is devoted to pharmaceutical
products.  The Company now concentrates its pharmaceutical research and
development efforts in five therapeutic categories:  central nervous system and
related diseases; endocrine diseases, including diabetes and osteoporosis;
infectious diseases; cancer; and cardiovascular diseases.  The Company is
engaged in biotechnology research programs involving recombinant DNA and
monoclonal antibodies.  The Company's biotechnology research is supplemented
through its Hybritech subsidiary, which conducts research using monoclonal-
antibody-based product technology for diagnosis of certain diseases or medical
conditions.

   In September 1994, the Company acquired Sphinx Pharmaceuticals Corporation of
Durham, North Carolina.  Sphinx, which is now a division of Lilly Research
Laboratories, uses a proprietary combinatorial chemistry technology to create
large libraries of small organic molecules and screen them at high speeds for
biological activity.
   
   In addition to the research activities carried on in the Company's own
laboratories, the Company sponsors and underwrites the cost of research and
development by independent organizations, including educational institutions and
research-based human health care companies, and contracts with others for the
performance of research in their facilities.  It utilizes the services of
physicians, hospitals, medical schools, and other research organizations in the
United States and numerous other countries to establish through clinical
evidence the safety and effectiveness of new products.  The Company's business-
development groups actively seek out opportunities to invest in external
research and technologies that hold the promise to complement and strengthen the
Company's own research efforts in the five chosen therapeutic categories.  Such
investments can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, co-
development and co-marketing agreements, and outright acquisitions.

   Extensive work is also conducted in the animal sciences, including animal
nutrition and physiology and veterinary medicine.  Certain of the Company's
research and development activities relating to pharmaceutical products may be
applicable to animal health products.  An example is the search for agents that
will cure infectious disease.
   
   Guidant Corporation conducts research and development in the area of medical
devices, seeking to introduce clinically advanced new products, to enhance the
effectiveness, ease of use, safety and reliability of existing products, and to
expand uses of existing products.

                                QUALITY ASSURANCE

   The Company's success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in
the quality of the Company's products and in the integrity of the data that
support their safety and effectiveness.  The quality of the Company's products
arises from the total commitment to quality in all parts of the Company,
including research and development, purchasing, facilities planning,
manufacturing, and distribution.  Quality-assurance procedures have been
developed relating to the quality and integrity of the Company's scientific
information and production processes.
   
   With respect to pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and animal health products,
control of production processes involves rigid specifications for ingredients,
equipment, facilities, manufacturing methods, packaging materials, and labeling.
Control tests are made at various stages of production processes and on the
final product to assure that the product meets the Company's standards.  These
tests may involve chemical and physical chemical analyses, microbiological
testing, testing in animals, or a combination of these tests.  Additional
assurance of quality is provided by a corporate quality-assurance group that
monitors existing pharmaceutical and animal health manufacturing procedures and
systems in the parent company, subsidiaries, and affiliates.

   The quality of medical devices is assured through specifications of
components and finished products, inspection of certain components,
certification of certain vendors, control of the manufacturing environment, and
use of statistical process controls.  Final products are tested to assure
conformance with specifications.
   
                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

   The following table sets forth certain information regarding the executive
officers of the Company.  All but four of the executive officers have been
employed by the Company in executive or managerial positions during the last
five years.  Randall L. Tobias became Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer in June 1993.  He had served as Vice Chairman of the Board of American
Telephone and Telegraph Company from 1986 until he assumed his present position.
He has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Company since 1986.  From
1987 until he joined the Company in August 1990, Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr.,
President, North American Pharmaceutical Operations, Pharmaceutical Division,
served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Hudson Institute and was
of counsel to Baker & Daniels.  From 1985 to 1987 he served on former President
Reagan's staff as Assistant to the President for Political and Intergovernmental
Affairs.  Thomas Trainer joined the Company in January 1995.  Since 1991 he had
served as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Reebok International
Ltd.  Prior to joining Reebok, he was Senior Vice President of Operations of
A.C. Nielson Co.  August M. Watanabe joined the Company in 1990 as Vice
President of Lilly Research Laboratories.  Previously he had served as Chairman
of the Department of Medicine at Indiana University School of Medicine from 1983
through 1990.
   
   Except as indicated in the table below, the term of office for each executive
officer indicated herein expires on the date of the annual meeting of the Board
of Directors, to be held on April 17, 1995, or on the date his or her successor
is chosen and qualified.  No director or executive officer of the Company has a
"family relationship" with any other director or executive officer of the
Company, as that term is defined for purposes of this disclosure requirement.
There is no understanding between any executive officer of the Company and any
other person pursuant to which the executive officer was selected.

      NAME                    AGE                 OFFICES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Randall L. Tobias              53  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
                                   Officer (since June 1993) and a Director

Sidney Taurel                  46  Executive Vice President and President,
                                   Pharmaceutical Division (since January 1993)
                                   and a Director

James M. Cornelius             51  Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
                                   Officer (since January 1983) and a Director

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr.       45  President, North American Pharmaceutical
                                   Operations, Pharmaceutical Division (since
                                   April 1993)1

Ronald W. Dollens              48  President and Chief Executive Officer,
                                   Guidant Corporation, a majority-owned
                                   subsidiary of the Company (since
                                   September 1994)2

Michael L. Eagle               47  Vice President, Manufacturing (since January
                                   1994)

Brendan P. Fox                 51  President, Elanco Animal Health Division
                                   (since January 1991)1

Rebecca O. Goss                47  Vice President and General Counsel (since
                                   March 1995)3

Michael E. Hanson              47  President, Internal Medicine Business Unit,
                                   Pharmaceutical Division (since
                                   August 1994)1,4

James A. Harper                47  President, Endocrine Business Unit,
                                   Pharmaceutical Division (since August
                                   1994)1,4

Pedro P. Granadillo            47  Vice President, Human Resources (since April
                                   1993)

J. B. King                     65  Vice President and General Counsel (since
                                   October 1987)5

Gerhard N. Mayr                48  President, European Pharmaceutical Operations
                                   (Europe, Africa, Middle East and India),
                                   Pharmaceutical Division (since January
                                   1993)1,4

Robert N. Postlethwait         46  President, Central Nervous System Business
                                   Unit, Pharmaceutical Division (since August
                                   1994)1,4

Stephen A. Stitle              49  Vice President, Corporate Affairs (since
                                   April 1993) and a Director

W. Leigh Thompson, Ph.D., M.D. 56  Chief Scientific Officer (since January
                                   1993)6

Thomas Trainer                 48  Vice President, Information Technology, and
                                   Chief Information Officer (since January
                                   1995)1,4

August M. Watanabe, M.D.       53  Vice President and President, Lilly Research
                                   Laboratories (since January 1994) and a
                                   Director
                                        
                                    EMPLOYEES

   At the end of 1994, the Company had approximately 24,900 employees, including
approximately 10,500 employees outside the United States.  A substantial number
of the Company's employees have long records of continuous service.

        FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS

   Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations, set forth
in the Company's 1994 Annual Report at pages 28-29 under "Review of Operations--
--Segment Information" (pages 12-13 of Exhibit 13), is incorporated herein by
reference.

   Eli Lilly International Corporation, a subsidiary, coordinates the Company's
manufacture and sale of products outside the United States.

   Local restrictions on the transfer of funds from branches and subsidiaries
located abroad (including the availability of dollar exchange) have not to date
been a significant deterrent in the Company's overall operations abroad.  The
Company cannot predict what effect these restrictions or the other risks
inherent in foreign operations, including possible nationalization, might have
on its future operations or what other restrictions may be imposed in the
future.


Item 2.  PROPERTIES

   The Company's principal domestic and international executive offices are
located in Indianapolis.  At December 31, 1994, the Company owned 14 production
plants and facilities in the United States and Puerto Rico.  These plants and
facilities contain an aggregate of approximately 12 million square feet of floor
area.  Most of the plants and facilities involve production of both
pharmaceutical and animal health products.    Guidant Corporation owns
manufacturing, research, and administrative facilities for medical devices,
containing an aggregate of approximately 1.2 million square feet, in four cities
in the United States and Puerto Rico, and leases manufacturing, research, and
administrative facilities in the United States containing an aggregate of
approximately 350,000 square feet.  The Company also leases sales offices in a
number of cities located in the United States.  PCS owns administrative
facilities in Scottsdale, Arizona, containing an aggregate of approximately
350,000 square feet and leases a total of approximately 120,000 square feet of
administrative space in other cities in the United States.  Hybritech leases a
manufacturing, research, and administrative facility in San Diego, containing an
aggregate of approximately 350,000 square feet.

   The Company (including Guidant and Hybritech) has 26 production plants and
facilities in 19 countries outside the United States, containing an aggregate of
approximately 4.2 million square feet of floor space.  Leased production and
warehouse facilities are utilized in Puerto Rico and 14 other countries outside
the United States.

   The Company's main research and development laboratories in Indianapolis and
Greenfield, Indiana, consist of approximately 2.8 million square feet.  Its
major research and development facilities abroad are located in Belgium and the
United Kingdom and contain approximately 435,000 square feet.  The Company also
owns two tracts of land, containing an aggregate of approximately 1,700 acres, a
portion of which is used for field studies of products.

   The Company believes that none of its properties is subject to any
encumbrance, easement, or other restriction that would detract materially from
its value or impair its use in the operation of the business of the Company.
The buildings owned by the Company are of varying ages and in good condition.


Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   The Company is currently a defendant in a variety of product and patent
litigation matters.  In approximately 200 actions, including several with
multiple claimants, plaintiffs seek to recover damages on behalf of children or
grandchildren of women who ingested diethylstilbestrol during pregnancy.  In
another approximately 135 actions, plaintiffs seek to recover damages as a
result of the ingestion of Prozac.  In the patent suits, it is asserted that one
or more Company products or processes infringe issued patents.  The holders of
those patents seek monetary damages and injunctions against further
infringement.  Products involved include Humulin, Humatrope, bovine somatotropin
and certain medical devices.
   
   A federal grand jury in Baltimore, Maryland is conducting an inquiry into the
Company's compliance with the Food and Drug Administration's regulatory
requirements affecting the Company's pharmaceutical manufacturing operations.
The Company is cooperating fully with the inquiry.
   
   The Company has been named, together with numerous other U.S. prescription
pharmaceutical manufacturers and in some cases wholesalers or distributors, as a
defendant in a large number of related actions brought by retail pharmacies in
the United States alleging violations of federal or state antitrust laws, or
both, based on the practice of providing discounts or rebates to managed-care
organizations and certain other large purchasers.  The federal cases have been
consolidated or coordinated for pre-trial proceedings in the Northern District
of Illinois.  The federal suits include a certified class action on behalf of
nearly all retail pharmacies in the United States.  The class plaintiffs allege
an industrywide agreement in violation of the Sherman Act to deny favorable
pricing on sales of brand-name prescription pharmaceuticals to certain retail
pharmacies in the United States.  The other federal suits, brought as individual
claims by several thousand pharmacies, allege price discrimination in violation
of the Robinson-Patman Act as well as Sherman Act claims.  Defense motions to
dismiss have been denied and discovery has begun.  The federal class action case
is scheduled to begin trial in February, 1996.  In addition, there are related
state court cases pending in Alabama, California, Minnesota, and Wisconsin
brought by large numbers of retail pharmacies alleging violations of various
state antitrust and pricing laws, purporting to be class actions on behalf of
retail pharmacies in those states.  There are also cases in California and
Washington that purport to be class actions on behalf of consumers of
prescription pharmaceuticals.
   
   The Company is also a defendant in other litigation, including product
liability suits, of a character regarded as normal to its business.
   
   While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcome of the legal
actions pending against the Company, in the opinion of the Company such actions
will not ultimately result in any liability that would have a material adverse
effect on its consolidated financial position.


Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   During the fourth quarter of 1994, no matters were submitted to a vote of
security holders.


                                     PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   Information relating to the principal market for the Company's common stock
and related stockholder matters, set forth in the Company's 1994 Annual Report
under "Review of Operations----Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)," at page 30
(page 14 of Exhibit 13), and "Review of Operations----Selected Financial Data
(unaudited)," at page 31 (page 15 of Exhibit 13), is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

   Selected financial data for each of the Company's five most recent fiscal
years, set forth in the Company's 1994 Annual Report under "Review of
Operations----Selected Financial Data (unaudited)," at page 31 (page 15 of
Exhibit 13), are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF
         OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

   The following portions of the Company's 1994 Annual Report (found at pages 1-
7 of Exhibit 13) constitute management's discussion and analysis of results of
operations and financial condition and are incorporated herein by reference:
   
   "Review of Operations----Strategic Actions" (page 18)
   "Review of Operations----Operating Results of Continuing Operations----1994"
   (pages 18-19 and 21)
   "Review of Operations----Operating Results of Continuing Operations----1993"
   (pages 21-23)
   "Review of Operations----Financial Condition" (pages 23 and 26)
   "Review of Operations----Environmental and Legal Matters" (page 26)

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

   The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries,
listed in Item 14(a)1 and included in the Company's 1994 Annual Report at pages
20, 24-25, and 27 (Consolidated Statements of Income, Consolidated Balance
Sheets, and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows), pages 28-29 (Segment
Information), and pages 32-46 (Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements)
(together, pages 8-13 and 16-31 of Exhibit 13), and the Report of Independent
Auditors set forth in the Company's 1994 Annual Report at page 47 (page 33 of
Exhibit 13), are incorporated herein by reference.

   Information on quarterly results of operations, set forth in the Company's
1994 Annual Report under "Review of Operations----Selected Quarterly Data
(unaudited)," at page 30 (page 14 of Exhibit 13), is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   None.
                                        
                                        
                                    PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   Information relating to the Company's directors, set forth in the Company's
Proxy Statement dated March 6, 1995, under "Election of Directors----Nominees
for Election," at pages 1-5, is incorporated herein by reference.  Information
relating to the Company's executive officers is set forth at pages 7-9 of this
Form 10-K under "Executive Officers of the Company."

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   Information relating to executive compensation, set forth in the Company's
Proxy Statement dated March 6, 1995, under "Election of Directors----Executive
Compensation," at pages 10-19, is incorporated herein by reference, except that
the Compensation and Management Development Committee Report and Performance
Graph are not so incorporated.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

   Information relating to ownership of the Company's common stock and Guidant's
common stock by persons known by the Company to be the beneficial owners of more
than 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock and by management, set forth
in the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 6, 1995, under "Election of
Directors----Common Stock Ownership by Directors and Executive Officers," at
pages 6-8, and "Election of Directors----Principal Holders of Common Stock," at
page 8, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   Information relating to a Registration Rights Agreement between Guidant
Corporation and Lilly Endowment, Inc., set forth in the Company's Proxy
Statement dated March 6, 1995, under "Election of Directors----Principal Holders
of Common Stock," at page 8, is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)1.     Financial Statements

   The following consolidated financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries, included in the Company's 1994 Annual Report at the pages
indicated in parentheses, are incorporated by reference in Item 8:

     Consolidated Statements of Income----Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993,
     and 1992 (page 20) (page 8 of Exhibit 13)
     
     Consolidated Balance Sheets----December 31, 1994 and 1993 (pages 24-25)
     (pages 9-10 of Exhibit 13)
     
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows----Years Ended December 31, 1994,
     1993, and 1992 (page 27) (page 11 of Exhibit 13)
     
     Segment Information (pages 28-29) (pages 12-13 of Exhibit 13)
     
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 32-46) (pages 16-31 of
     Exhibit 13)

(a)2.  Financial Statement Schedules

   The consolidated financial statement schedules of the Company and its
subsidiaries have been omitted because they are not required, are inapplicable,
or are adequately explained in the financial statements.

   Financial statements of interests of 50% or less, which are accounted for by
the equity method, have been omitted because they do not, considered in the
aggregate as a single subsidiary, constitute a significant subsidiary.
  
(a)3.  Exhibits

     2.1  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 10, 1994, among McKesson
          Corporation, Eli Lilly and Company, and ECO Acquisition Corporation(7)
     
     2.2  Reorganization and Distribution Agreement dated as of July 10, 1994,
          by and among McKesson Corporation (a Delaware corporation), McKesson
          Corporation (a Maryland corporation), Clinical Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
          PCS Health Systems, Inc., and SP Ventures, Inc.(7)
     
     3.1  Amended Articles of Incorporation
     
     3.2  By-laws
     
     4.1  Form of Indenture with respect to Contingent Payment Obligation Units
          dated March 18, 1986, between Eli Lilly and Company and Harris Trust
          and Savings Bank, as Trustee
     
     4.2  Rights Agreement dated as of July 18, 1988, between Eli Lilly and
          Company and Bank One, Indianapolis, NA
     
     4.3  Form of Indenture dated as of February 21, 1989, between Eli Lilly and
          Company and Merchants National Bank & Trust Company of Indianapolis,
          as Trustee
     
     4.4  Form of Eli Lilly and Company Five Year Convertible Note
     
     4.5  Form of Indenture with respect to Debt Securities dated as of February
          1, 1991, between Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee
     
     4.6  Form of Standard Multiple-Series Indenture Provisions dated, and filed
          with the Securities and Exchange Commission on, February 1, 1991
     
     4.7  Form of Indenture dated as of September 5, 1991, among the Lilly
          Savings Plan Master Trust Fund C, as Issuer; Eli Lilly and Company, as
          Guarantor; and Chemical Bank, as Trustee(8)
     
     4.8  Form of Fiscal and Paying Agency Agreement dated July 8, 1993, between
          Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal and Paying Agent,
          including forms of Notes, relating to 5-1/2% Notes Due 1998(8)
     
     4.9  Form of Fiscal and Paying Agency Agreement dated February 7, 1995,
          between Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal and Paying
          Agent, including forms of Notes, relating to 8-1/8%% Notes Due
          February 7, 2000(8)
     
     4.10 Form of Fiscal and Paying Agency Agreement dated February 7, 1995,
          between Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal and Paying
          Agent, including forms of Notes, relating to 8-3/8%% Notes Due
          February 7, 2005(8)
     
     10.1 1984 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended
     
     10.2 1989 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended
     
     10.3 1994 Lilly Stock Plan
     
     10.4 The Lilly Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended
     
     10.5 The Lilly Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended
     
     10.6 The Lilly Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Stock Plan, as amended
     
     10.7 Eli Lilly and Company Senior Executive Bonus Plan, as amended
     
     10.8 The Eli Lilly and Company Executive Bonus Plan
     
     10.9 The Lilly Non-Employee Directors' Retirement Plan
     
     10.10  Letter Agreement dated September 3, 1993, between the Company and
            Vaughn D. Bryson
     
     11.  Computation of Earnings Per Share on Primary and Fully Diluted Bases
     
     12.  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
     
     13.  Annual Report to Shareholders for the Year Ended December 31, 1994
          (portions incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K)
     
     21.  List of Subsidiaries
     
     23.  Consent of Independent Auditors
     
     27.  Financial Data Schedule
     
     99.  Report to Holders of Eli Lilly and Company Contingent Payment
          Obligation Units

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

   During the fourth quarter of 1994, the Company filed two reports on Form 8-
K.
   
   On November 29, 1994, the Company filed a Form 8-K/A (amending a Form 8-K
filed on November 23, 1994) reporting the acquisition of over 94% of the shares
of common stock of McKesson Corporation pursuant to the Company's tender offer
for those shares.
   
   On December 12, 1994, the Company filed a Form 8-K in order to file as
exhibits certain documents and schedules required for the Company to issue two
series of notes under its Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Reg. Nos. 33-
38347 and 33-56208, respectively) under Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended.
                                        
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
                              
                              ELI LILLY AND COMPANY
                              
                              
                              By s/Randall L. Tobias
                                 ---------------------------------
                              (Randall L. Tobias, Chairman of the Board
                                 and Chief Executive Officer)
                              
                                    March 20, 1995

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below on March 20, 1995 by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated.

       SIGNATURE                                 TITLE
---------------------------------------------------------------

s/Randall L. Tobias                    Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
------------------------------         Officer, and a Director (principal
(RANDALL L. TOBIAS)                    executive officer)


s/James M. Cornelius                   Vice President, Finance, Chief
------------------------------         Financial Officer and a Director
(JAMES M. CORNELIUS)                   (principal financial officer)


s/Arnold C. Hanish                     Chief Accounting Officer
------------------------------         (principal accounting officer)
(ARNOLD C. HANISH)


s/Steven C. Beering, M.D.              Director
------------------------------
(STEVEN C. BEERING, M.D.)


s/James W. Cozad                       Director
------------------------------
(JAMES W. COZAD)


s/Karen N. Horn                        Director
------------------------------
(KAREN N. HORN, Ph.D.)


s/J. Clayburn La Force, Jr., Ph.D.     Director
----------------------------------
(J. CLAYBURN LA FORCE, JR., Ph.D.)


s/Kenneth L. Lay, Ph.D.                Director
------------------------------
(KENNETH L. LAY, Ph.D.)


s/Ben F. Love                          Director
------------------------------
(BEN F. LOVE)


s/Stephen A. Stitle                    Director
------------------------------
(STEPHEN A. STITLE)


s/Sidney Taurel                        Director
------------------------------
(SIDNEY TAUREL)


s/August M. Watanabe, M.D.             Director
------------------------------
(AUGUST M. WATANABE, M.D.)


s/Alva O. Way                          Director
------------------------------
(ALVA O. WAY)


s/Richard D. Wood                      Director
------------------------------
(RICHARD D. WOOD)


                                                                                
                                                                      TRADEMARKS

                                          Apralan(R) (apramycin sulfate, Elanco)
                                                     Axid(R) (nizatidine, Lilly)
                                                     Ceclor(R) (cefaclor, Lilly)
                                              Coban(R) (monensin sodium, Elanco)
                     Compudose(R) (estradiol controlled-release implant, Elanco)
                Darvocet-N(R) (propoxyphene napsylate with acetaminophen, Lilly)
                                   Dobutrex(R) (dobutamine hydrochloride, Lilly)
                                               Dynabac(R) (dirithromycin, Lilly)
                                          Eldisine(R) (vindesine sulfate, Lilly)
                      Humatrope(R) (somatropin of recombinant DNA origin, Lilly)
                     Humulin(R) (human insulin of recombinant DNA origin, Lilly)
                                                      lletin(R) (insulin, Lilly)
                                                   Keflex(R) (cephalexin, Dista)
                                     Keftab(R) (cephalexin hydrochloride, Dista)
                                           Kefurox(R) (cefuroxime sodium, Lilly)
                                             Kefzol(R) (cefazolin sodium, Lilly)
                                                   LorabidTM (loracarbef, Lilly)
                                           Mandol(R) (cefamandole nafate, Lilly)
                                    Maxiban(R) (narasin and nicarbazine, Elanco)
                                       Micotil(R) (tilmicosin phosphate, Elanco)
                                                   Monteban(R) (narasin, Elanco)
                                           Nebcin(R) (tobramycin sulfate, Lilly)
                                         Oncovin(R) (vincristine sulfate, Lilly)
                                           Permax(R) (pergolide mesylate, Lilly)
                                     Prozac(R) (fluoxetine hydrochloride, Dista)
                                                                  RECAP(R) (PCS)
                                           Rumensin(R) (monensin sodium, Elanco)
                                                Tazidime(R) (ceftazidime, Lilly)
                                                      Tylan(R) (tylosin, Elanco)
                                   Vancocin(R) (vancomycin hydrochloride, Lilly)
                                          Velban(R) (vinblastine sulfate, Lilly)
                                                                                
_______________________________
*The  terms "Company" and "Registrant" are used interchangeably herein to  refer
to  Eli  Lilly  and  Company or to Eli Lilly and Company  and  its  consolidated
subsidiaries, as the context requires.
1 Serves in office until successor is appointed
2 Serves in office until Guidant Corporation annual meeting presently scheduled
on May 30, 1995
3 Became executive officer March 1995
4 Became executive officer January 1995
5 Retired from the Company and as an officer February 28, 1995
6 Retired from the Company and as an officer December 31, 1994
7 Copies of agreements and disclosure schedules ancillary to the Agreement and
Plan of Merger and the Reorganization and Distribution Agreement are not filed
with this report.  Copies will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission upon request.
8 Exhibits 4.7-4.10 are not filed with this report.  Copies will be furnished to
the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.


