
10-K405



                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                      FORM 10-K

                    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d)
                       OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

          For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996       Commission File
                                                            Number 1-6351
                                ELI LILLY AND COMPANY

            An Indiana Corporation             I.R.S. Employer Number
                                                     35-0470950

           Address:   Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285

               Telephone number, including area code:   (317) 276-2000

             SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                             Name Of Each Exchange
           Title Of Each Class               On Which Registered
           -------------------               ---------------------
              Common Stock                New York and Pacific Stock Exchanges
         Preferred Stock Purchase Rights  New York and Pacific Stock Exchanges
       8-1/8% Notes Due December 1, 2001    New York Stock Exchange
       8-3/8% Notes Due December 1, 2006    New York Stock Exchange
         6.57% Notes Due January 1, 2016    New York Stock Exchange
         6.77% Notes Due January 1, 2036    New York Stock Exchange

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   None

      Indicate by check  mark whether the  Registrant (1)  has filed all
      reports required  to  be  filed by  Section  13  or  15(d)  of the
      Securities Exchange Act  of 1934  during the preceding  12 months,
      and (2) has been subject to  such filing requirements for the past
      90 days. Yes   X   No
                   -----    --

      Indicate by  check  mark    if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
      pursuant to Item   405 of Regulation S-K  is not contained herein,
      and will not be contained, to  the best of Registrant's knowledge,
      in the  definitive proxy  statement incorporated  by  reference in
      Part III of this Form 10-K  or any amendment to  this Form 10-K. [ ]

      Aggregate market value of  voting stock of the  Registrant held by
      non-affiliates  as   of   February   14,  1997   (Common   Stock):
      $42,991,879,970.

      Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 14,
      1997:  554,528,339

      Portions of the following documents have been incorporated by
      reference into this report:

             Document                           Parts Into Which Incorporated
             --------                           -----------------------------
      Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders       Parts I, II, and IV
        for fiscal year ended December 31, 1996

      Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 5, 1997      Part III

                                 


                                     PART I

      Item 1.   BUSINESS

         Eli Lilly and Company was incorporated in 1901 under the laws of
      Indiana to succeed to the drug manufacturing business founded in
      Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly.  The Company*,
      including its subsidiaries, is engaged in the discovery, development,
      manufacture, and sale of products and the provision of services in
      one industry segment--Life Sciences.  Products are manufactured or
      distributed through owned or leased facilities in the United States,
      Puerto Rico, and 25 other countries, in 19 of which the Company owns
      or has an interest in manufacturing facilities.  Its products are
      sold in approximately 155 countries.  Through its PCS Health Systems
      ("PCS") and Integrated Medical Systems ("IMS") subsidiaries, the
      Company provides health care management services in the United
      States.

         Most of the Company's products were discovered or developed
      through the Company's research and development activities, and the
      success of the Company's business depends to a great extent on the
      continued introduction of new products resulting from these research
      and development activities.  Research efforts are primarily directed
      toward the discovery of products to diagnose and treat diseases in
      human beings and animals and to increase the efficiency of animal
      food production.

                   FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY
                        SEGMENTS AND CLASSES OF PRODUCTS

         Financial information relating to industry segments and classes of
      products, set forth in the Company's 1996 Annual Report at pages 34-
      35 under "Review of Operations--Segment Information" (pages 12-13
      of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K), is incorporated herein by
      reference.

         Due to several factors, including the introduction of new products
      by the Company and other manufacturers, the relative contribution of
      any particular Company product to consolidated net sales is not
      necessarily constant from year to year, and its contribution to net
      income is not necessarily the same as its contribution to
      consolidated net sales.

                              PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

      Pharmaceutical Products

          Pharmaceutical products include

              Central-nervous-system agents, the Company's largest-selling
           product group, including Prozac(R), a selective serotonin reuptake
           inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of depression and, in
           many countries, for bulimia and obsessive-compulsive disorder;
           Zyprexa(TM), a product approved in the fall of 1996 in the United
           States and several other countries for the treatment of
           schizophrenia; the Darvon(R) line of analgesic products; and
           PermaxR, a treatment for Parkinson's disease;

     ------------
           *The terms "Company" and "Registrant" are used interchangeably herein
            to refer to Eli Lilly and Company or to Eli Lilly and Company and
            its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.

    

              Anti-infectives, including the oral cephalosporin antibiotics
           Ceclor(R) (cefaclor), Keflex(R), and Keftab(R), used in the treatment
           of a wide range of bacterial infections; the oral carbacephem
           antibiotic Lorabid(R), used to treat a variety of infections; the
           oral macrolide antibiotic Dynabac(R); the injectable cephalosporin
           antibiotics Mandol(R), Tazidime(R), Kefurox(R) and Kefzol(R), used
           to treat a wide range of infections in the hospital setting;
           Nebcin(R), an injectable aminoglycoside antibiotic used in
           hospitals to treat various infections caused by staphylococci
           and Gram-negative bacteria; and Vancocin(R) HCl, an injectable
           antibiotic used primarily to treat staphylococcal infections;

              Endocrine products, including Humulin(R), human insulin
           produced through recombinant DNA technology;  Humalog(R),
           approved in 1996, a rapid-acting injectable human insulin analog
           of recombinant DNA origin;  Iletin(R), animal-source insulin in
           its various pharmaceutical forms; and Humatrope(R), human growth
           hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology;

              An antiulcer agent, Axid(R), an H2 antagonist, indicated for
           the treatment of active duodenal ulcer, for maintenance therapy
           for duodenal ulcer patients after healing of an active duodenal
           ulcer, for reflux esophagitis, and for benign gastric ulcer;

              Cardiovascular agents, including ReoPro(R), a monoclonal
           antibody product developed and manufactured by Centocor, Inc.
           and marketed by the Company for use in angioplasty patients
           considered at high risk for suffering abrupt reclosure of the
           treated artery; Dobutrex(R), an inotropic agent; and Cynt(TM),
           marketed outside the United States for treatment of
           hypertension;

              Oncolytic agents, including Gemzar(R), indicated for treatment
           of advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer, and, in many
           countries outside the United States, for treatment of non-small-
           cell lung cancer; Oncovin(R), indicated for treatment of acute
           leukemia and, in combination with other oncolytic agents, for
           treatment of several different types of advanced cancers;
           Velban(R), used in a variety of malignant neoplastic conditions;
           and Eldisine(R), indicated for treatment of acute childhood
           leukemia resistant to other drugs; and

              Additional pharmaceuticals, including sedatives and vitamins.

      Animal Health Products

         Animal health products include Tylan(R), an antibiotic used to
      control certain diseases in cattle, swine, and poultry and to improve
      feed efficiency and growth; Rumensin(R), a cattle feed additive that
      improves feed efficiency and growth; Coban(R), Monteban(R) and Maxiban(R),
      anticoccidial agents for use in poultry; ApralanR, an antibiotic used
      to control enteric infections in calves and swine; Micotil(R) and
      Pulmotil(R), antibiotics used to treat respiratory disease in cattle
      and swine, respectively; and other products for livestock and
      poultry.

      Health Care Management Services

         PCS provides computer-based prescription drug claims processing,
      pharmacy benefit administration and management services, mail order
      pharmacy services, data management and disease-management services to
      health plan sponsors, including insurance companies, third-party
      administrators, self-insured employers, health maintenance
      organizations, and Blue Cross/Blue Shield organizations that



      underwrite or administer prescription benefit plans.  PCS helps these
      customers manage prescription benefit costs by providing drug
      utilization reviews, clinically-based formularies, generic
      substitution programs, and disease-management programs.  RECAP(R),
      PCS's on-line prescription claims management system, is linked with
      over 95% of retail pharmacies in the U.S.  In 1996, PCS introduced a
      mail order pharmacy program for its customers known as Performance
      Mail.  Integrated Medical Systems operates physician-based electronic
      communication networks, called IMS MEDACOM(R) networks, that deliver
      clinical, administrative, and financial information to hospitals,
      payers/managed-care plans, laboratories,  and physicians.

                                    MARKETING

         Most of the Company's major products are marketed worldwide.
      Health care management services are marketed primarily in the United
      States.

         In the United States, the Company distributes pharmaceutical
      products principally through approximately 210 independent wholesale
      distributing outlets.  Marketing policy is designed to assure
      immediate availability of these products to physicians, pharmacies,
      hospitals, and appropriate health care professionals throughout the
      country.  Four wholesale distributing companies in the United States
      accounted for approximately 11%, 11%, 10%, and 8%, respectively, of
      the Company's consolidated net sales in 1996.  No other distributor
      accounted for as much as 5% of consolidated net sales.  The Company
      also makes direct sales of its pharmaceutical products to the United
      States government and to other manufacturers, but those direct sales
      do not constitute a material portion of consolidated net sales.

         The Company's major pharmaceutical products are promoted in the
      United States under the Lilly and Dista trade names by Company sales
      forces employing salaried sales representatives.  These sales
      representatives, many of whom are registered pharmacists, call upon
      physicians, wholesalers, hospitals, managed-care organizations,
      retail pharmacists, and other health care professionals.  Their
      efforts are supported by the Company through advertising in medical
      and drug journals, distribution of literature and samples of certain
      products to physicians, and exhibits for use at medical meetings.
      The Company has created new specialized sales forces dedicated to
      specific products and product lines, such as diabetes care, Gemzar,
      ReoPro, and Zyprexa.  The Company has entered into licensing
      arrangements under which certain products manufactured by the
      Company,  such as Ceclor CD, Dynabac, Keftab, and Permax, are
      marketed by other pharmaceutical companies in the United States.

         In the past few years, large purchasers of pharmaceuticals, such
      as managed-care groups and government and long-term care
      institutions, have begun to account for an increasing portion of
      total pharmaceutical purchases in the United States with a resulting
      intensification of price competition.  The Company has created
      special sales groups to service managed-care organizations,
      government and long-term care institutions, hospital contract
      administrators, and certain retail pharmacies.  In response to
      competitive pressures, the Company has entered into arrangements with
      a number of these organizations providing for discounts or rebates on
      one or more Company products or other cost-sharing arrangements.  The
      Company has also entered into agreements with generic pharmaceutical
      companies for the promotion, distribution and/or supply of generic
      forms of certain brand name products.

         Outside the United States, pharmaceutical products are promoted
      primarily by salaried sales representatives.  While the products
      marketed vary from country to country, anti-infectives constitute the



      largest single group in total sales.  Distribution patterns vary from
      country to country.  In recent years, the Company has significantly
      expanded its marketing efforts in a number of overseas markets,
      including emerging markets in Central and Eastern Europe, Latin
      America, Asia and Africa.

         Elanco Animal Health, a division of the Company, employs field
      salespeople throughout the United States to market animal health
      products.  Sales are made to wholesale distributors, retailers, feed
      manufacturers, or producers in conformance with varying distribution
      patterns applicable to the various types of products.  The Company
      also has an extensive sales force outside the United States to market
      its animal health products.

                                  RAW MATERIALS

         Most of the principal materials used by the Company in
      manufacturing operations are chemical, plant, and animal products
      that are available from more than one source.  Certain raw materials
      are available or are purchased principally from only one source.
      Unavailability of certain materials from present sources could cause
      an interruption in production pending establishment of new sources
      or, in some cases, implementation of alternative processes.

         Although the major portion of the Company's sales abroad are of
      products manufactured wholly or in part abroad, a principal source of
      active ingredients for these manufactured products continues to be
      the Company's facilities in the United States.

                              PATENTS AND LICENSES

         The Company owns, has applications pending for, or is licensed
      under, a substantial number of patents, both in the United States and
      in other countries, relating to products, product uses, and
      manufacturing processes.  There can be no assurance that patents will
      result from the Company's pending applications.  Moreover, patents
      relating to particular products, uses, or processes do not preclude
      other manufacturers from employing alternative processes or from
      successfully marketing substitute products to compete with the
      patented products or uses.  Outside the United States, patent
      protection varies widely.  In many countries, patent protection is
      weak or nonexistent.  Patent protection of certain products,
      processes, and uses--particularly that relating to Prozac, Axid,
      Gemzar, Lorabid, and Zyprexa--is considered to be important to the
      operations of the Company.  The United States compound patent
      covering Prozac expires in 2001 and a use patent for the mechanism of
      action by which Prozac works expires in 2003.  See "Legal
      Proceedings" at page 10 for a discussion of certain litigation
      involving these two patents.  In other countries, Prozac patents
      generally either have expired or will expire over the next several
      years.  Other U.S. compound patent expirations include the following:
      Axid, 2002; Lorabid,  2006; and Zyprexa, 2011.   The Gemzar compound
      patent in the U.S. expires in 2006, but a use patent covering
      treatment of neoplasms with Gemzar is in force until 2012.

         The Company also grants licenses under patents and know-how
      developed by the Company and manufactures and sells products and uses
      technology and know-how under licenses from others.  Royalties
      received by the Company in relation to licensed pharmaceuticals
      amounted to approximately $7 million in 1996, and royalties paid by
      it in relation to pharmaceuticals amounted to approximately $119
      million in 1996.



                                   COMPETITION

         The Company's pharmaceutical products compete with products
      manufactured by numerous other companies in highly competitive
      markets in the United States and throughout the world.  The Company's
      animal health products compete on a worldwide basis with products of
      pharmaceutical, chemical, and other companies that operate animal
      health divisions or subsidiaries.  PCS faces strong competition from
      other pharmacy benefit management companies  and claims processors in
      the United States.  For certain accounts, PCS competes with some
      retail pharmacy chains, mail order programs and organized groups of
      independent pharmacists.

         Important competitive factors include price and demonstrated cost-
      effectiveness, product characteristics and dependability, service,
      and research and development of new products and processes.  The
      introduction of new products and processes by competitors with
      therapeutic or cost advantages can result in progressive price
      reductions or decreased volume of sales of competing products, or
      both.  New products introduced with patent protection usually must
      compete with other products already on the market at the time of
      introduction or products developed by competitors after introduction.
      Manufacturers of generic products typically invest far less in
      research and development than research-based pharmaceutical companies
      and accordingly are able to price their products significantly lower
      than branded products.  Therefore, upon patent expiration, branded
      products often face intense price competition from generic forms of
      the product.  In many countries outside the United States, patent
      protection is weak or nonexistent.  The growth of managed care
      organizations has intensified price competition significantly in the
      United States and in varying degrees in some other countries.

         The Company believes its long-term competitive position is
      dependent upon the success of its research and development endeavors
      in discovering and developing innovative, demonstrably cost-effective
      products, together with increased productivity resulting from
      improved manufacturing methods, marketing efforts, and the provision
      of value-added services to its customers.  There can be no assurance
      that the Company's research and development efforts will result in
      commercially successful products or that products manufactured or
      processes used by the Company will not become outmoded from time to
      time as a result of products or processes developed by its
      competitors.

                             GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

         The Company's operations have for many years been subject to
      extensive regulation by the federal government, to some extent by
      state governments, and in varying degrees by foreign governments.
      The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, other federal statutes and
      regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and
      regulations of foreign governments govern testing, approval,
      production, labeling, distribution, post-market surveillance,
      advertising, and promotion of most of the Company's products.  The
      lengthy process of laboratory testing, clinical testing, data
      analysis and regulatory review necessary for required governmental
      approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product
      introductions in a given market.  In addition, the Company's
      operations are subject to complex federal, state, local, and foreign
      environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations.  It is
      anticipated that compliance with regulations affecting the
      manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new
      products will continue to require substantial scientific and
      technical effort, time, and expense and significant capital
      investment.



         In the United States, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of
      1990 requires the Company to provide rebates to state governments in
      connection with their purchase of certain Company products under
      state Medicaid programs, and other cost containment measures have
      been adopted or proposed by federal, state, and local government
      entities that provide or pay for health care.  In most international
      markets the Company operates in an environment of government-mandated
      cost containment programs, which may include price controls,
      discounts and rebates, restrictions on physician prescription levels,
      compulsory licenses and generic substitution.  The Company expects
      that governments inside and outside the United States will continue
      to adopt a variety of measures to contain health care costs,
      including pharmaceutical costs.  The Company cannot predict the
      extent to which its business may be affected by these or other future
      legislative or regulatory developments.

                            RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

         The Company's research and development activities are responsible
      for the discovery or development of most of the products offered by
      the Company today.  Its commitment to research and development dates
      back more than 100 years.  The Company invests heavily in research
      and development, which management believes is critical to long-term
      competitiveness in the pharmaceutical industry.  The growth in
      research and development expenditures and personnel over the past
      several years demonstrates both the continued vitality of the
      Company's commitment and the increasing costs and complexity of
      bringing new products to the market.  At the end of 1996,
      approximately 4,950 people, including a substantial number who are
      physicians or scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees or
      highly skilled technical personnel, were engaged in pharmaceutical
      and animal health research and development activities.  The Company
      expended $838.7 million on these research and development activities
      in 1994, $1.04 billion in 1995, and $1.19 billion in 1996.

         The Company's research is concerned primarily with the effects of
      synthetic chemicals and natural products on biological systems.  The
      results of that research are applied to the development of products
      for use by or on humans and animals, and for other uses.  Major
      effort is devoted to pharmaceutical products.  The Company
      concentrates its pharmaceutical research and development efforts in
      five therapeutic categories:  central nervous system and related
      diseases; endocrine diseases, including diabetes and osteoporosis;
      infectious diseases; cancer; and cardiovascular diseases.  The
      Company is engaged in biotechnology research programs involving
      recombinant DNA, protein research, and genomics (the development of
      therapeutics through identification of disease-causing genes and
      their cellular function).

         In addition to the research activities carried on in the Company's
      own laboratories, the Company sponsors and underwrites the cost of
      research and development by independent organizations, including
      educational institutions and research-based human health care
      companies, and contracts with others for the performance of research
      in their facilities.  It utilizes the services of physicians,
      hospitals, medical schools, and other research organizations in the
      United States and numerous other countries to establish through
      clinical evidence the safety and effectiveness of new products.  The
      Company actively seeks out opportunities to invest in external
      research and technologies that hold the promise to complement and
      strengthen the Company's own research efforts.  Such investments can
      take many forms, including licensing arrangements, co-development and
      co-marketing agreements, and outright acquisitions.



         Extensive work is also conducted in the animal sciences, including
      animal nutrition and physiology and veterinary medicine.  Certain of
      the Company's research and development activities relating to
      pharmaceutical products may be applicable to animal health products.
      An example is the search for agents that will cure infectious
      disease.

                                QUALITY ASSURANCE

         The Company's success depends in great measure upon customer
      confidence in the quality of the Company's products and in the
      integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness.
      The quality of the Company's products arises from the total
      commitment to quality in all parts of the Company, including research
      and development, purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, and
      distribution.  Quality-assurance procedures have been developed
      relating to the quality and integrity of the Company's scientific
      information and production processes.

         Control of production processes involves rigid specifications for
      ingredients, equipment, facilities, manufacturing methods, packaging
      materials, and labeling.  Control tests are made at various stages of
      production processes and on the final product to assure that the
      product meets all regulatory requirements and the Company's
      standards.  These tests may involve chemical and physical chemical
      analyses, microbiological testing, testing in animals, or a
      combination of these tests.  Additional assurance of quality is
      provided by a corporate quality-assurance group that monitors
      existing pharmaceutical and animal health manufacturing procedures
      and systems in the parent company, subsidiaries, and affiliates.

                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

         The following table sets forth certain information regarding the
      executive officers of the Company.  All but three of the executive
      officers have been employed by the Company in executive or managerial
      positions during the last five years.  Randall L. Tobias became
      Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in June 1993.  He
      had served as Vice Chairman of the Board of AT&T from 1986 until he
      assumed his present position.  He has been a member of the Board of
      Directors of the Company since 1986.  Charles E. Golden joined the
      Company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and
      was elected to the Board of Directors on March 4, 1996.  He
      previously had held a number of executive positions with General
      Motors Corporation ("GM") including Vice President of GM and
      Chairman and Managing Director of Vauxhall Motors Limited, a GM
      subsidiary in the United Kingdom, from 1993 to 1996, Vice President
      and Treasurer from 1992 to 1993, and Treasurer from 1989 to 1992.
      Thomas Trainer joined the Company in January 1995.  Since 1991 he had
      served as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Reebok
      International Ltd.  Prior to joining Reebok, he was Senior Vice
      President of Operations of A.C. Nielson Co.

         Except as indicated in the following table, the term of office for
      each executive officer indicated herein expires on the date of the
      annual meeting of the Board of Directors, to be held on April 21,
      1997, or on the date his or her successor is chosen and qualified.
      No director or executive officer of the Company has a "family
      relationship" with any other director or executive officer of the
      Company, as that term is defined for purposes of this disclosure
      requirement.  There is no understanding between any executive officer
      of the Company and any other person pursuant to which the executive
      officer was selected.



           NAME                AGE                  OFFICES
      -----------------------------------------------------------------

      Randall L. Tobias       55     Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                     Executive Officer (since June 1993)
                                     and a Director

      Sidney Taurel           48     President and Chief Operating
                                     Officer (since February 1996)
                                     and a Director

      Charles E. Golden       50     Executive Vice President
                                     and Chief Financial Officer
                                     (since March 1996) and a Director

      August M. Watanabe,     55     Executive Vice President,
      M.D.                           Science and Technology (since
                                     February 1996) and a Director

      Mitchell E. Daniels,    47     Vice President, Corporate
      Jr.                            Strategy and Policy (since
                                     January 1997)

      Rebecca O. Goss         49     Vice President and General
                                     Counsel (since March 1995)

      Pedro P. Granadillo     49     Vice President, Human
                                     Resources (since April 1993)

      Alan S. Clark           62     President, U.S. Operations (since
                                     January 1997)*

      Michael L. Eagle        49     Vice President, Manufacturing (since
                                     January 1994)*

      Brendan P. Fox, D.V.M.  53     President, Elanco Animal Health
                                     Business Unit (since January 1991)*

      Michael E. Hanson       49     President, Internal Medicine Business
                                     Unit (since August 1994)*

      James A. Harper         49     President, Endocrine Business Unit
                                     (since August 1994)*

      Gerhard N. Mayr         50     President, European, Middle East and
                                     African Operations (since January 1993)*

      Robert N. Postlethwait  48     President, Neuroscience Business Unit
                                     (since August 1994)*

      William R. Ringo, Jr.   51     President, Infectious Diseases
                                     Business Unit (since September 1995)*

      Gino Santini            40     Vice President, Corporate Strategy
                                     and Business Development (since
                                     September 1995)*

      Thomas Trainer          50     Vice President, Information Technology,
                                     and Chief Information Officer (since
                                     January 1995)*

- ------------
 *Serves in office until successor is appointed.



                                    EMPLOYEES

         At the end of 1996, the Company had approximately 29,200
      employees, including approximately 13,700 employees outside the
      United States.  A substantial number of the Company's employees have
      long records of continuous service.

        FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS

         Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations,
      set forth in the Company's 1996 Annual Report at pages 34-35 under
      "Review of Operations--Segment Information" (pages 12-13 of Exhibit
      13), is incorporated herein by reference.

         Eli Lilly International Corporation, a subsidiary, coordinates the
      Company's manufacture and sale of products outside the United States.

         Local restrictions on the transfer of funds from branches and
      subsidiaries located abroad (including the availability of dollar
      exchange) have not to date been a significant deterrent in the
      Company's overall operations abroad.  The Company cannot predict what
      effect these restrictions or the other risks inherent in foreign
      operations, including possible nationalization, might have on its
      future operations or what other restrictions may be imposed in the
      future.  In addition, changing currency values can either favorably
      or unfavorably affect the financial position and results of
      operations of the Company.  The Company actively manages its foreign
      exchange risk through various hedging techniques including the use of
      foreign currency contracts.  Further information on the Company's
      hedging program is contained in Note 6 to the Company's financial
      statements for 1996, "Financial Instruments -- Risk Management
      Instruments and Off-Balance Sheet Risk", at pages 41-42 of the
      Company's 1996 Annual Report (pages 19-20 of Exhibit 13).

      Item 2.   PROPERTIES

         The Company's principal domestic and international executive
      offices are located in Indianapolis.  At December 31, 1996, the
      Company owned 14 production and distribution facilities in the United
      States and Puerto Rico.  Together with the corporate administrative
      offices,  these facilities contain an aggregate of approximately 9.4
      million square feet of floor area.  Major production sites include
      Indianapolis; Clinton and Lafayette, Indiana; and Carolina and
      Mayaguez, Puerto Rico.  The Company also leases sales offices in a
      number of cities located in the United States and abroad.  PCS owns
      or leases administrative facilities in Scottsdale, Arizona,
      containing an aggregate of approximately 473,000 square feet, and
      leases a 94,000 square foot mail-order pharmacy facility in Fort
      Worth, Texas.  It also leases administrative space in other cities in
      the United States.  Integrated Medical Systems leases administrative
      space in a number of locations.

         The Company has 27 production and distribution facilities in 19
      countries outside the United States and Puerto Rico, containing an
      aggregate of approximately 4.0 million square feet of floor space.
      Leased production and warehouse facilities are utilized in Puerto
      Rico and 15 countries outside the United States.

         The Company's research and development facilities in the United
      States consist of approximately 3.7 million square feet and are
      located primarily in Indianapolis and Greenfield, Indiana.  Its major



      research and development facilities abroad are located in Belgium and
      the United Kingdom and contain approximately 341,000 square feet.
      The Company also owns two tracts of land, containing an aggregate of
      approximately 1,700 acres, a portion of which is used for field
      studies of products.

         The Company believes that none of its properties is subject to any
      encumbrance, easement, or other restriction that would detract
      materially from its value or impair its use in the operation of the
      business of the Company.  The buildings owned by the Company are of
      varying ages and in good condition.

      Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Prozac Patent Litigation.  In March 1996 the Company was informed
      by Barr Laboratories, Inc. ("Barr") that it had submitted an
      abbreviated new drug application to the U.S. FDA seeking to market a
      generic form of Prozac in the United States several years before the
      expiration of the Company's patents.  Barr has alleged that the
      Company's U.S.  patents covering Prozac are invalid and
      unenforceable.  On April 11, 1996, the Company filed suit in the
      United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana
      seeking a ruling that Barr's challenge to the Company's patents is
      without merit.  A trial date has been set for January 1998.  The
      compound patent expires in February 2001 and a use patent for the
      mechanism of action by which Prozac operates expires in December
      2003.  These patents are material to the Company.  The Company
      believes that Barr's claims are without merit and that the Company
      should be successful in this litigation.  However, it is not possible
      to predict or determine the outcome of this litigation and
      accordingly there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail.
      An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on the
      Company's consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of
      operations.

         Product Liability Litigation.  The Company is currently a
      defendant in a variety of product litigation matters involving
      primarily diethylstilbestrol ("DES") and Prozac.  In approximately
      275 actions, including several with multiple claimants, plaintiffs
      seek to recover damages on behalf of children or grandchildren of
      women who ingested DES during pregnancy.  In March 1996 a suit was
      filed in the federal district court for the Eastern District of New
      York against the Company and several other manufacturers purporting
      to be a class action on behalf of New York resident women who were
      exposed to DES in utero.  The suit does not seek compensation for
      personal injuries but instead seeks establishment of a fund for
      various expenses allegedly incurred as a result of DES exposure.  In
      another approximately 28 actions, plaintiffs seek to recover damages
      as a result of the ingestion of Prozac.

         Pricing Litigation.   The Company has been named, together with
      numerous other U.S. prescription pharmaceutical manufacturers and in
      some cases wholesalers or distributors, as a defendant in a large
      number of related actions brought by retail pharmacies and consumers
      of prescription pharmaceuticals in the United States alleging
      violations of federal or state antitrust laws, or both, based on the
      practice of providing discounts or rebates to managed-care
      organizations and certain other purchasers.  The federal cases have
      been consolidated or coordinated in the Northern District of Illinois
      as In re Brand Name Prescription Drugs Antitrust Litigation (MDL No.
      997).

         The federal suits include a certified class action on behalf of a
      majority of retail pharmacies in the United States (the "Federal
      Class Action").  The class plaintiffs allege an industrywide
      agreement in violation of the Sherman Act to deny favorable pricing
    


      on sales of brand-name prescription pharmaceuticals to certain retail
      pharmacies in the United States.  The Company and several other
      manufacturers have agreed to settle the Federal Class Action.  The
      settlement amount, which is not material, was accrued by the Company
      in the fourth quarter of 1995.  The settlement was approved by the
      District Court but an appeal was subsequently taken and is pending.
      The other federal suits, brought as individual claims by several
      thousand pharmacies, allege price discrimination in violation of the
      Robinson-Patman Act as well as Sherman Act claims.  The suits seek
      treble damages and injunctive relief against allegedly discriminatory
      pricing practices.  With respect to the Robinson-Patman Act claims,
      the District Court has designated certain plaintiffs and defendants
      named in the individual suits (not including the Company) to
      participate in an initial trial or trials of the claims.  No trial
      dates have been set.  Robinson-Patman claims asserted in the suits
      against nondesignated defendants, including the Company, are stayed.

         In addition, there are a number of related state court cases.  The
      state court suits typically seek money damages and injunctive relief
      against allegedly discriminatory pricing practices.  Cases have been
      brought in Alabama, California, Minnesota, and Wisconsin by retail
      pharmacies alleging violations of various state antitrust and pricing
      laws, purporting to be class actions on behalf of all retail
      pharmacies in those states.  The court in California has certified a
      class of retail pharmacies.  Cases have also been brought in state
      courts in Alabama, Arizona, California, District of Columbia,
      Florida, Kansas, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Tennessee,
      Washington and Wisconsin that purport to be class actions on behalf
      of consumers of prescription pharmaceuticals, alleging violations of
      state antitrust and pricing laws.  The courts in California and the
      District of Columbia have certified classes of consumer plaintiffs,
      while the Minnesota court denied class certification.  The New York
      and Washington cases have been dismissed and appeals are pending.
      The Alabama, Florida, and Kansas cases have been removed to federal
      court.  The Alabama case was transferred to the MDL court in Chicago,
      and the court denied a motion to remand to the state court.  In the
      Florida and Kansas cases, there are pending both motions to remand to
      the state courts and petitions to transfer to the MDL court in
      Chicago.

         Other Matters.  In June 1995, Bank Pharmacy, a California retail
      pharmacy, filed an action in federal district court in the Northern
      District of California against the Company and PCS alleging that the
      Company's acquisition of PCS violated federal antitrust laws.  The
      suit seeks divestiture of PCS by the Company.   The Company believes
      the claim is without merit.

         In March 1996, the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") commenced a
      non-public investigation focusing on the pricing practices described
      under "Pricing Litigation" above.  In July 1996, the Company received
      a subpoena from the FTC requesting production of certain documents.
      The Company believes that all of its actions have been lawful and
      proper and is cooperating with the investigation.

         In October 1996, the FTC issued a subpoena to the Company and PCS
      requesting production of certain documents in connection with a non-
      public investigation reviewing whether the relationships and
      activities between pharmacy benefit management companies and
      pharmaceutical companies have violated federal antitrust law,
      including a review of whether the Company has violated the consent
      decree it entered into at the time it acquired PCS in 1994.  The
      Company believes that all its actions and those of PCS have been
      lawful, proper and in compliance with the PCS consent decree.  The
      Company and PCS are cooperating with the FTC's investigation.



         The Company is also a defendant in other litigation, including
      product liability and patent suits, of a character regarded as normal
      to its business.

         While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcome of
      the legal actions and investigations pending against the Company, the
      Company believes that except as noted above, the costs associated
      with all such matters will not have a material adverse effect on its
      consolidated financial position or liquidity but could possibly  be
      material to the consolidated results of operations in any one
      accounting period.

      Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         During the fourth quarter of 1996, no matters were submitted to a
      vote of security holders.


                                     PART II

      Item 5.   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
                STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         Information relating to the principal market for the Company's
      common stock and related stockholder matters, set forth in the
      Company's 1996 Annual Report under "Review of Operations---elected
      Quarterly Data (unaudited)," at page 36 (page 14 of Exhibit 13), and
      "Review of Operations---elected Financial Data (unaudited)," at
      page 37 (page 15 of Exhibit 13), is incorporated herein by reference.

      Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         Selected financial data for each of the Company's five most recent
      fiscal years, set forth in the Company's 1996 Annual Report under
      "Review of Operations--Selected Financial Data (unaudited)," at
      page 37 (page 15 of Exhibit 13), are incorporated herein by
      reference.

      Item 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF
                OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

         The following portions of the Company's 1996 Annual Report (found
      at pages 1-6 and 32-34 of Exhibit 13) constitute management's
      discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial
      condition and are incorporated herein by reference:

       "Review of Operations--Operating Results and Net Income--1996"
         (pages 24, 25,  and 27)
       "Review of Operations--Operating Results and Net Income--1995"
         (pages 27-28)
       "Review of Operations--Financial Condition" (pages 28-29)
       "Review of Operations--Environmental and Legal Matters" (pages
         29 and 32)
       "Review of Operations--Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
           of 1995 -- A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements"
           (page 32)



      Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its
      subsidiaries, listed in Item 14(a)1 and included in the Company's
      1996 Annual Report at pages 26, 30, 31, and 33 (Consolidated
      Statements of Income, Consolidated Balance Sheets, and Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows), pages 34 and 35 (Segment Information), and
      pages 38-51 (Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) (together,
      pages 8-13 and 16-29 of Exhibit 13), and the Report of Independent
      Auditors set forth in the Company's 1996 Annual Report at page 52
      (page 31 of Exhibit 13), are incorporated herein by reference.

         Information on quarterly results of operations, set forth in the
      Company's 1996 Annual Report under "Review of Operations--Selected
      Quarterly Data (unaudited)," at page 36 (page 14 of Exhibit 13), is
      incorporated herein by reference.

      Item 9.   DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.


                                    PART III

      Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Information relating to the Company's directors, set forth in
      Section 1 of the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 5, 1997 (the
      "Proxy Statement"), under "Nominees for Election" and  "Certain
      Information Concerning Director Nominees and Directors Continuing in
      Office," at pages 1-5, is incorporated herein by reference.
      Information relating to the Company's executive officers is set forth
      at pages 7-8 of this Form 10-K under "Executive Officers of the
      Company."  Information relating to certain filing obligations of
      directors and executive officers under the federal securities laws,
      set forth in the Proxy Statement under "Other Matters -- Section
      16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" at page 19, is also
      incorporated herein by reference.

      Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Information relating to executive compensation, set forth in
      Section 1 of the Proxy Statement  under "Directors' Compensation",
      "Executive Compensation", "Compensation Committee Interlocks",
      "Retirement Plan", and "Change-in-Control Severance Pay
      Arrangements" at pages 8-18, is incorporated herein by reference,
      except that the Compensation and Management Development Committee
      Report and Performance Graph are not so incorporated.



      Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
                AND MANAGEMENT

         Information relating to ownership of the Company's common stock by
      persons known by the Company to be the beneficial owners of more than
      5% of the outstanding shares of common stock and by management, set
      forth in Section 1 of the Proxy Statement under "Common Stock
      Ownership by Directors and Executive Officers," at pages 6-7, and
      "Principal Holders of Common Stock," at page 7, is incorporated
      herein by reference.

      Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         The information in Section 1 of the Proxy Statement entitled
      "Certain Business Relationships" at page 18 is incorporated herein by
      reference.


                                     PART IV

      Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
                FORM 8-K

      (a)1.     Financial Statements

         The following consolidated financial statements of the Company
      and its subsidiaries, included in the Company's 1996 Annual Report at
      the pages indicated in parentheses, are incorporated by reference in
      Item 8:

           Consolidated Statements of Income--Years Ended December 31,
           1996, 1995, and 1994  (page 26) (page 8 of Exhibit 13)

           Consolidated Balance Sheets--December 31, 1996 and 1995 (pages
           30-31) (pages 9-10 of Exhibit 13)

           Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years Ended December 31,
           1996, 1995, and 1994 (page 33) (page 11 of Exhibit 13)

           Segment Information (pages 34-35) (pages 12-13 of Exhibit 13)

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 38-51) (pages
           16-29 of Exhibit 13)

      (a)2.     Financial Statement Schedules

         The consolidated financial statement schedules of the Company and
      its subsidiaries have been omitted because they are not required, are
      inapplicable, or are adequately explained in the financial
      statements.

         Financial statements of interests of 50% or less, which are
      accounted for by the equity method, have been omitted because they do
      not, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, constitute a
      significant subsidiary.



      (a)3.     Exhibits

      3.1   Amended Articles of Incorporation

      3.2   By-laws

      4.1   Rights Agreement dated as of July 18, 1988, between
            Eli Lilly and Company and Bank One, Indianapolis, NA

      4.2   Form of Indenture dated as of February 21, 1989,
            between Eli Lilly and Company and Merchants National
            Bank & Trust Company of Indianapolis, as Trustee

      4.3   Form of Eli Lilly and Company Five Year Convertible Note

      4.4   Form of Indenture with respect to Debt Securities dated as
            of February 1, 1991, between Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank,
            N.A., as Trustee

      4.5   Form of Standard Multiple-Series Indenture Provisions dated, and
            filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on,
            February 1, 1991

      4.6   Form of Indenture dated as of September 5, 1991, among the Lilly
            Savings Plan Master Trust Fund C, as Issuer; Eli Lilly and
            Company, as Guarantor; and Chemical Bank, as Trustee1

      4.7   Form of Fiscal and Paying Agency Agreement dated July 8, 1993,
            between Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal and
            Paying Agent, including forms of Notes, relating to 5-1/2% Notes
            Due 19981

      4.8   Form of Fiscal and Paying Agency Agreement dated February 7,
            1995, between Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal
            and Paying Agent, including forms of Notes, relating to 8-1/8% 
            Notes Due February 7, 20001

      4.9   Form of Fiscal and Paying Agency Agreement dated February 7,
            1995, between Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal
            and Paying Agent, including forms of Notes, relating to 8-3/8%
            Notes Due February 7, 20051

      10.1  1984 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended2

      10.2  1989 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended2

      10.3  1994 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended2

      10.4  The Lilly Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended2

      10.5  The Lilly Directors' Deferral Plan, as amended2

- ---------------
1 These exhibits are not filed with this Report.  Copies will be furnished to
  the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

2 Indicates management contract or compensatory plan.



      10.6  The Eli Lilly and Company EVA Bonus Plan, as amended2

      10.7  Eli Lilly and Company Change in Control Severance Pay Plan
            for Select Employees2

      10.8  Letter Agreement dated September 3, 1993, between the Company
            and Vaughn D. Bryson2

      11.   Computation of Earnings Per Share on Primary and Fully Diluted Bases

      12.   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

      13.   Annual Report to Shareholders for the Year Ended December 31,
            1996 (portions incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K)

      21.   List of Subsidiaries

      23.   Consent of Independent Auditors

      27.   Financial Data Schedule

      99.   Cautionary Statement under Private Securities Litigation Reform
            Act of 1995 -- "Safe Harbor" for Forward-Looking Disclosures

      (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

         The Company  filed  no reports  on  Form  8-K  during the  fourth
      quarter of 1996.

- -------------------
   2 Indicates management contract or compensatory plan.




                                   SIGNATURES

           Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
      report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
      authorized.

                                    ELI LILLY AND COMPANY


                                    By s/Randall L. Tobias
                                       --------------------------------
                                       (Randall L. Tobias, Chairman of the
                                          Board and Chief Executive Officer)

                                                        March 18, 1997


           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, this report has been signed below on March 18, 1997 by the
      following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities
      indicated.

           SIGNATURE                TITLE
      -----------------------------------------------------------------

      s/Randall L. Tobias           Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
      -------------------------     Officer, and Director (principal
      (RANDALL L. TOBIAS)           executive officer)


      s/Charles E. Golden           Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
      -------------------------     Officer, and a Director (principal
      (CHARLES E. GOLDEN)           financial officer)


      s/Arnold C. Hanish            Chief Accounting Officer
      -------------------------     (principal accounting officer)
      (ARNOLD C. HANISH)            


      s/Evan Bayh                   Director
      -------------------------
      (EVAN BAYH)


      s/Steven C. Beering, M.D.     Director
      -------------------------
      (STEVEN C. BEERING, M.D.)


      s/James W. Cozad              Director
      -------------------------
      (JAMES W. COZAD)


      s/Karen N. Horn               Director
      -------------------------
      (KAREN N. HORN, Ph.D.)


      s/Alfred G. Gilman, M.D., Ph.D.     Director
      -------------------------------
      (ALFRED G. GILMAN, M.D., Ph.D.)


      s/J. Clayburn La Force, Jr., Ph.D.   Director
      ----------------------------------
      (J. CLAYBURN LA FORCE, JR., Ph.D.)


      s/Kenneth L. Lay, Ph.D.       Director
      -------------------------
      (KENNETH L. LAY, Ph.D.)


      s/Franklyn G. Prendergast, M.D., Ph.D.     Director
      --------------------------------------
      (FRANKLYN G. PRENDERGAST, M.D., Ph.D.)


      s/Kathi P. Seifert            Director
      -------------------------
      (KATHI P. SEIFERT)


      s/Sidney Taurel               Director
      -------------------------
      (SIDNEY TAUREL)


      s/August M. Watanabe, M.D.    Director
      --------------------------
      (AUGUST M. WATANABE, M.D.)


      s/Alva O. Way                 Director
      -------------------------
      (ALVA O. WAY)



                           TRADEMARKS USED IN THIS REPORT


             Trademarks or service marks owned by Eli Lilly and Company or
          its subsidiaries or affiliates, when first used in this Report,
          appear with an initial capital and are followed by the symbol (R)
          or (TM), as applicable.  In subsequent uses of the marks in the
          Report, the symbols are omitted.


