
10-K
1993 10-K



                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                               FORM 10-K

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d)
                        OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                                                 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993     Commission File Number 1-6351



                              ELI LILLY AND COMPANY
                 (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)


                                             LILLY CORPORATE CENTER
    INDIANA              35-0470950          INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA  46285
(State or other         (IRS Employer        (Address of principal  (Zip Code)
jurisdiction of incor-   Identification No.)  executive offices)
poration or organization)


Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   317-276-2000


          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                               NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
    TITLE OF EACH CLASS                        ON WHICH REGISTERED 

       Common Stock                           New York Stock Exchange
                                               Pacific Stock Exchange

   Contingent Payment Obligation Units        American Stock Exchange

     Preferred Stock Purchase Rights          New York Stock Exchange
                                               Pacific Stock Exchange


      SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   X   No 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of Registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy statement incorporated 
by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-
K.[]

The aggregate market value of voting stock of the Registrant held by non-
affiliates as of February 21, 1994 (Common Stock):  $13,447,757,840.  

The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 21, 1994:

                CLASS                  NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING

               Common                           292,665,649

Portions of the following documents have been incorporated by reference into 
this report:

          DOCUMENT                            PARTS INTO WHICH INCORPORATED

Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders     Parts I, II, and IV
    for fiscal year ended December 31, 1993

Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 
     14, 1994                                  Part III

                         



PART I

Item 1.     BUSINESS

Eli Lilly and Company was incorporated in 1901 under the laws of Indiana 
to succeed to the drug manufacturing business founded in Indianapolis, 
Indiana, in 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly.  The Company*, including its 
subsidiaries, is engaged in the discovery, development, manufacture, and sale 
of products in one industry segment - Life Sciences.  Products are 
manufactured or distributed through owned or leased facilities in the United 
States, Puerto Rico, and 27 other countries, in 19 of which the Company owns 
or has an interest in manufacturing facilities.  Its products are sold in 
approximately 120 countries.

Most of the Company's products were discovered or developed through the 
Company's research and development activities, and the success of the 
Company's business depends to a great extent on the introduction of new 
products resulting from these research and development activities.  Research 
efforts are primarily directed toward the discovery of products to diagnose 
and treat diseases in human beings and animals and to increase the efficiency 
of animal food production.  Research efforts are also directed toward 
developing medical devices.


                FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY
                    SEGMENTS AND CLASSES OF PRODUCTS

Financial information relating to industry segments and classes of 
products, set forth in the Company's 1993 Annual Report at pages 18-19 under 
"Review of Operations - Segment Information" (pages 12-13 of Exhibit 13 to 
this Form 10-K), is incorporated herein by reference.

Due to several factors, including the introduction of new products by the 
Company and other manufacturers, the relative contribution of any particular 
Company product to consolidated net sales is not necessarily constant from 
year to year, and its contribution to net income is not necessarily the same 
as its contribution to consolidated net sales.

PRODUCTS

Pharmaceutical Products

    Pharmaceutical products include

Anti-infectives, including the oral cephalosporin antibiotics Ceclor
(Registered), Keflex(Registered), and Keftab(Registered), used in 
the treatment of a wide range of bacterial infections; the oral 
carbacephem antibiotic Lorabid(Trademark), used to treat a variety of 
infections; the injectable cephalosporin antibiotics Mandol(Registered), 
Tazidime(Registered), Kefurox(Registered), and Kefzol(Registered), used 
to treat a wide range of infections in the hospital setting; 
Nebcin(Registered), an injectable aminoglycoside antibiotic used in 
hospitals to treat a broad range of infections caused by staphylococci 
and Gram-negative bacteria; and Vancocin(Registered) HCl, an antibiotic 
used primarily to treat staphylococcal infections; 

Central-nervous-system agents, including the antidepressant agent 
Prozac(Registered), a highly specific serotonin uptake inhibitor, 
indicated for the treatment of depression and, in certain countries, for 
bulimia and obsessive-compulsive disorder; and the analgesic Darvocet-
N(Registered) 100, which is indicated for the relief of mild-to-moderate 
pain;

* The terms "Company" and "Registrant" are used interchangeably 
  herein to refer to Eli Lilly and Company or to Eli Lilly and Company
  and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.

                                -1-


Diabetic care products, including Iletin(Registered) (insulin) in its 
various pharmaceutical forms; and Humulin(Registered), human insulin 
produced through recombinant DNA technology;

Oncolytic agents, including Oncovin(Registered), indicated for 
treatment of acute leukemia and, in combination with other oncolytic 
agents, for treatment of several different types of advanced cancers; 
Velban(Registered), used in a variety of malignant neoplastic 
conditions; and Eldisine(Registered), indicated for treatment of acute 
childhood leukemia resistant to other drugs;

An antiulcer agent, Axid(Registered), an H2 antagonist, indicated for 
the treatment of active duodenal ulcer, for maintenance therapy for 
duodenal ulcer patients after healing of an active duodenal ulcer, and 
for reflux esophagitis; and

Additional pharmaceuticals, including cardiovascular therapy 
products, principally Dobutrex(Registered); hormones, including 
Humatrope(Registered), human growth hormone produced by recombinant DNA 
technology; and sedatives.

Medical Devices and Diagnostic Products

Medical devices include patient vital-signs measurement and 
electrocardiography systems, intravenous fluid-delivery and control systems, 
implantable cardiac pacemakers and implantable cardioverter/defibrillators, 
cardiac defibrillators and monitors, coronary angioplasty catheter systems, 
peripheral and coronary atherectomy catheter systems, and devices for use 
during minimally-invasive surgery procedures.

Diagnostic products include monoclonal-antibody-based diagnostic tests for 
colon, prostate, and testicular cancer, as well as for infertility, 
pregnancy, heart attack, thyroid deficiencies, allergies, anemia, dwarfism, 
and infectious diseases.

Animal Health Products

Animal health products include Tylan(Registered), an antibiotic used to 
control certain diseases in cattle, swine, and poultry and to improve feed 
efficiency and growth; Rumensin(Registered), a cattle feed additive that 
improves feed efficiency and growth; Compudose(Registered), a controlled-
release implant that improves feed efficiency and growth in cattle; 
Coban(Registered), Monteban(Registered) and Maxiban(Registered), 
anticoccidial agents for use in poultry; Apralan(Registered), an antibiotic 
used to control enteric infections in calves and swine; Micotil(Registered), 
an antibiotic used to treat bovine respiratory disease; and other products 
for livestock and poultry.

MARKETING

Most of the Company's major products are marketed worldwide.

In the United States, the Company's Pharmaceutical Division distributes 
pharmaceutical products principally through approximately 225 wholesale 
distributing outlets.  Marketing policy is designed to assure immediate 
availability of these products to physicians, pharmacies, hospitals, and 
appropriate health care professionals throughout the country.  Four wholesale 
distributing companies in the United States accounted for approximately 11%, 
9%, 6%, and 5% respectively, of consolidated net sales in 1993.  No other 
distributor accounted for as much as 5% of consolidated net sales.  The 
Company also makes direct sales of its pharmaceutical products to the United 
States government and to other manufacturers, but those direct sales do not 
constitute a material portion of consolidated net sales.

The Company's pharmaceutical products are promoted in the United States 
under the Lilly and Dista trade names by one hospital and three retail 
sales forces employing salaried sales representatives.  These sales 
representatives, approximately half of whom are registered pharmacists, 
call upon physicians, wholesalers, hospitals, managed-care organizations, 
retail pharmacists, and other health care professionals.  Their efforts 
are supported by the Company through advertising in medical and drug 
journals, distribution of literature and samples of certain products 
to physicians, and exhibits for use at medical meetings.  In the past 
few years, large purchasers of pharmaceuticals, such 

                                   -2-



as managed-care groups and government and long-term care institutions, 
have begun to account for an increasing portion of total pharmaceutical 
purchases in the United States.  In 1992, reflecting these changes, the 
Company created special sales groups to service government and long-term 
care institutions, and expanded its managed-care sales organization.  In 
response to competitive pressures, the Company has entered into arrangements 
with a number of these organizations providing for discounts or rebates on 
one or more Company products.  

Pharmaceutical products are promoted outside the United States by salaried 
sales representatives.  While the products marketed vary from country to 
country, anti-infectives constitute the largest single group in total volume.  
Distribution patterns vary from country to country.

IVAC Corporation markets its patient temperature-measuring and vital-signs 
products and intravenous fluid-infusion systems principally to hospitals in 
the United States.  Sales in the United States are conducted by a direct 
sales force.  Sales outside the United States are conducted by both direct 
sales representatives and independent distributors.

Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc. markets pacemaker products and automatic 
implantable cardioverter/defibrillators to physicians and hospitals.  Sales 
are conducted by direct sales representatives and by independent distributors 
both inside and outside the United States.

Physio-Control Corporation markets cardiac defibrillators and monitors, 
electrocardiography systems, and vital-signs-measurement equipment to 
hospitals and emergency care units.  In the United States, sales are 
conducted by direct sales representatives.  Sales outside the United States 
are conducted by both direct sales representatives and independent 
distributors.  Physio-Control suspended production in May 1992 following an 
inspection of its operations by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
("FDA").  During 1993, Physio-Control received FDA authorization to resume 
shipments of the majority of its product line.  Physio-Control is seeking FDA 
authorization to resume shipments of its remaining products.

Advanced Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. primarily markets coronary 
dilatation balloon catheter systems to cardiologists to open obstructed 
coronary arteries.  In the United States, sales are conducted by a direct 
sales force.  Sales outside the United States are conducted by both direct 
sales representatives and independent distributors.

Devices for Vascular Intervention, Inc. markets atherectomy catheter 
systems for the treatment of coronary vascular disease by the removal of 
atherosclerotic plaque.  In the United States, sales are conducted by direct 
sales representatives.  Sales outside the United States are conducted by 
independent distributors.

Origin Medsystems, Inc., acquired by the Company in 1992, markets devices 
for use in minimally invasive surgical procedures.  Sales in the United 
States are conducted by direct sales representatives.  Sales outside the 
United States are conducted by independent distributors and a direct sales 
force.

Heart Rhythm Technologies, Inc. is developing catheter-based ablation 
systems to correct faulty signals at the heart, using a less-invasive 
approach than current therapy.  Heart Rhythm Technologies has no products 
currently approved for marketing.

Hybritech Incorporated and Pacific Biotech, Inc. market their 
immunodiagnostic products to hospitals, commercial laboratories, clinics, and 
physicians.  Sales are conducted by direct sales representatives and by 
independent distributors both inside and outside the United States.

Elanco Animal Health, a division of the Company, employs field salespeople 
throughout the United States to market animal health products.  Sales are 
made to wholesale distributors, retailers, feed manufacturers, or producers 
in conformance with varying distribution patterns applicable to the various 
types of products.  The Company also has an extensive sales force outside the 
United States to market its animal health products.

                                   -3-



                            RAW MATERIALS

Most of the principal materials used by the Company in manufacturing 
operations are chemical, plant, and animal products that are available from 
more than one source.  Certain raw materials are available or are purchased 
principally from only one source.  Unavailability of certain materials from 
present sources could cause an interruption in production pending 
establishment of new sources or, in some cases, implementation of alternative 
processes.

Although the major portion of the Company's sales abroad are of products 
manufactured wholly or in part abroad, a principal source of active 
ingredients for these manufactured products continues to be the Company's 
facilities in the United States.

                           PATENTS AND LICENSES

The Company owns, has applications pending for, or is licensed under, a 
substantial number of patents, both in the United States and in other 
countries, relating to products, product uses, and manufacturing processes.  
There can be no assurance that patents will result from the Company's pending 
applications.  Moreover, patents relating to particular products, uses, or 
processes do not preclude other manufacturers from employing alternative 
processes or from successfully marketing substitute products to compete with 
the patented products or uses.

Patent protection of certain products, processes, and uses - particularly 
that relating to Ceclor, Dobutrex, Humulin, Prozac, Axid, and Lorabid - is 
considered to be important to the operations of the Company.  The United 
States product patent covering Ceclor, the Company's second largest selling 
product, expired in December 1992.  The Company holds a U.S. patent on a key 
intermediate material that remains in force until December 1994.  It has been 
reported that several abbreviated new drug applications for generic 
formulations of cefaclor (the active ingredient in Ceclor) have been filed in 
the U.S. and regulatory submissions have been made in other countries.  Small 
quantities of a generic formulation are currently being marketed in India.  
Although the Company cannot predict the ultimate effect on the sales of 
Ceclor or the Company's results of operations, the Company believes that the 
expiration of the U.S. product and intermediate patents will not have a 
material adverse effect on the Company's near-term consolidated financial 
position.  The United States patent covering Dobutrex expired in October 
1993.  Prior to the expiration, U.S. sales of Dobutrex accounted for 
approximately 2% of the Company's worldwide sales.  The patent expiration
has resulted in a significant decline in U.S. Dobutrex sales, and the 
Company expects this decline to continue.  During the first two months of 
1994, U.S. sales of the product declined approximately 75%.  The 
contribution of Dobutrex to the Company's net income is greater than its
contribution to net sales.  The Company is unable to predict the effect
of the expiration on the Company's consolidated results of operations;
however, the Company believes the expiration will not have a material
adverse effect on its consolidated financial position. The United States 
patent covering Humulin expires in 2000, the Prozac patent expires in 
2001, the Axid patent expires in 2002, and the Lorabid patent expires in 2004.

The Company also grants licenses under patents and know-how developed by 
the Company and manufactures and sells products and uses technology and know-
how under licenses from others.  Royalties received by the Company in 
relation to licensed pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and diagnostic 
products amounted to approximately $56.7 million in 1993, and royalties paid 
by it in relation to pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and diagnostic 
products amounted to approximately $92.5 million in 1993.

                             COMPETITION

The Company's pharmaceutical products compete with products manufactured 
by numerous other companies in highly competitive markets in the United 
States and throughout the world.  Its medical devices compete with 
numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers of conventional mercury-glass 
thermometers, implantable cardiac pacemakers, cardiac defibrillators and 
monitors, electronic temperature-measuring systems, vital-signs measuring 
systems, intravenous systems, angioplasty catheter systems, and minimally-
invasive surgery devices.  The Company's diagnostic products 

                                  -4-


compete with conventional immunodiagnostic assays as well as with 
monoclonal-antibody-based products marketed by numerous foreign and domestic 
manufacturers.  Its animal health products compete on a worldwide basis 
with products of pharmaceutical, chemical, and other companies that operate 
animal health divisions or subsidiaries.

Important competitive factors include price and cost-effectiveness, 
product characteristics and dependability, service, and research and 
development of new products and processes.  The introduction of new products 
and the development of new processes by domestic and foreign companies can 
result in progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales of 
competing products, or both.  New products introduced with patent protection 
usually must compete with other products already on the market at the time of 
introduction or products developed by competitors after introduction.  The 
Company believes its competitive position in these markets is dependent upon 
its research and development endeavors in the discovery and development of 
new products, together with increased productivity resulting from improved 
manufacturing methods, marketing efforts, and customer service.  There can be 
no assurance that products manufactured or processes used by the Company will 
not become outmoded from time to time as a result of products or processes 
developed by its competitors.

                            GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

The Company's operations have for many years been subject to extensive 
regulation by the federal government, to some extent by state governments, 
and in varying degrees by foreign governments.  The Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act, other federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes 
and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern 
testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution, post-market 
surveillance, advertising, promotion, and in some instances, pricing, of most 
of the Company's products.  In addition, the Company's operations are subject 
to complex federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and 
regulations.  It is anticipated that compliance with regulations affecting 
the manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new 
products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical 
effort, time, and expense and significant capital investment.  

In the United States, the federal administration has identified health 
care reform as a priority and introduced legislation that, if enacted, would 
make fundamental changes in the health care delivery system.  In addition, a 
number of reform measures have been proposed by members of Congress.  Many 
state legislatures are also considering health care reform measures.  The 
nature of the changes that may ultimately be enacted and their impact on the 
Company and the pharmaceutical industry are unknown.  However, several of the 
measures currently under discussion, if enacted, could affect the industry 
and the Company by, among other things, increasing pressures on pricing, 
restricting physicians' choice of therapies, raising effective tax rates, and 
reducing incentives to invest in research and development.  Outside the 
United States, governments in several countries, including Germany, Italy, 
and the United Kingdom, are implementing health care cost-control measures 
that may adversely affect pharmaceutical industry revenues.  The Company is 
unable to predict the extent to which its business may be affected by these 
or other future legislative and regulatory developments.

                            RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's research and development activities are responsible for the 
discovery or development of most of the products offered by the Company 
today.  Its commitment to research and development dates back more than 100 
years.  The growth in research and development expenditures and personnel 
over the past several years demonstrates both the continued vitality of the 
Company's commitment and the increasing costs and complexity of bringing new 
products to the market.  At the end of 1993, approximately 5,600 people, 
including a substantial number who are physicians or scientists holding 
graduate or postgraduate degrees or highly skilled technical personnel, were 
engaged in research and development activities.  The Company expended $766.9 
million on research and development activities in 1991, $924.9 million in 
1992, and $954.6 million in 1993.

The Company's research is concerned primarily with the effects of 
synthetic chemicals and natural products on biological systems.  The 
results of that research are applied to the development of 

                                     -5-


products for use by or on humans and animals, and for other uses.  Major 
effort is devoted to pharmaceutical products.  In late 1993, the Company 
decided to concentrate its pharmaceutical research and development efforts 
on the search for compounds that will cure or treat diseases in five 
categories:  central nervous system and related diseases; endocrine diseases, 
including diabetes and osteoporosis; infectious diseases; cancer; and 
cardiovascular diseases.  The Company is engaged in biotechnology research 
programs involving recombinant DNA and monoclonal antibodies.  The Company's 
biotechnology research is supplemented through its Hybritech and Pacific 
Biotech subsidiaries, which conduct research using monoclonal-antibody-based 
product technology for diagnosis of certain diseases or medical conditions.

In addition to the research activities carried on in the Company's own 
laboratories, the Company sponsors and underwrites the cost of research and 
development by independent organizations, including educational institutions 
and research-based human health care companies, and contracts with others for 
the performance of research in their facilities.  It utilizes the services of 
physicians, hospitals, medical schools, and other research organizations in 
the United States and numerous other countries to establish through clinical 
evidence the safety and effectiveness of new products.

IVAC, Cardiac Pacemakers, Advanced Cardiovascular Systems, Physio-Control, 
Devices for Vascular Intervention, Origin Medsystems, and Heart Rhythm 
Technologies conduct research and development in the area of medical devices.

Extensive work is also conducted in the animal sciences, including animal 
nutrition and physiology and veterinary medicine.  Certain of the Company's 
research and development activities relating to pharmaceutical products may 
be applicable to animal health products.  An example is the search for agents 
that will cure infectious disease.

                               QUALITY ASSURANCE

The Company's success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in 
the quality of the Company's products and in the integrity of the data that 
support their safety and effectiveness.  The quality of the Company's 
products arises from the total commitment to quality in all parts of the 
Company, including research and development, purchasing, facilities planning, 
manufacturing, and distribution.  Quality-assurance procedures have been 
developed relating to the quality and integrity of the Company's scientific 
information and production processes.  

With respect to pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and animal health products, 
control of production processes involves rigid specifications for 
ingredients, equipment, facilities, manufacturing methods, packaging 
materials, and labeling.  Control tests are made at various stages of 
production processes and on the final product to assure that the product 
meets the Company's standards.  These tests may involve chemical and physical 
chemical analyses, microbiological testing, testing in animals, or a 
combination of these tests.  Additional assurance of quality is provided by a 
corporate quality-assurance group that monitors existing pharmaceutical and 
animal health manufacturing procedures and systems in the parent company, 
subsidiaries, and affiliates.

The quality of medical devices is assured through specifications of 
components and finished products, inspection of certain components, 
certification of certain vendors, control of the manufacturing environment, 
and use of statistical process controls.  Final products are tested to assure 
conformance with specifications.  

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the executive 
officers of the Company.  All but three of the executive officers have been 
employed by the Company in executive or managerial positions during the last 
five years.  

Randall L. Tobias became Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
in June 1993.  He had served as Vice Chairman of the Board of American 
Telephone and Telegraph Company from 1986 until he assumed his present 
position.  He has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Company 
since 1986.  August M. Watanabe joined the Company in 1990 as Vice 

                                -6-



President of Lilly Research Laboratories.  Previously he had served as 
Chairman of the Department of Medicine at Indiana University School of 
Medicine from 1983 through 1990.  From 1987 until he joined the Company in 
August 1990, Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr., President, North American 
Pharmaceutical Operations, Pharmaceutical Division, served as President 
and Chief Executive Officer of the Hudson Institute and was of counsel to 
Baker & Daniels.  From 1985 to 1987 he served on former President Reagan's 
staff as Assistant to the President for Political and Intergovernmental 
Affairs.  

Except as indicated in the table below, the term of office for each 
executive officer indicated herein expires on the date of the annual meeting 
of the Board of Directors, to be held on April 18, 1994, or on the date his 
successor is chosen and qualified.  No director or executive officer of the 
Company has a "family relationship" with any other director or executive 
officer of the Company, as that term is defined for purposes of this 
disclosure requirement.  There is no understanding between any executive 
officer of the Company and any other person pursuant to which the executive 
officer was selected.


     NAME                      AGE                    OFFICES               

Randall L. Tobias              52    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
                                     Officer (since June 1993) and a Director

Mel Perelman, Ph.D.            63    Executive Vice President (since December 
                                     1986) and a Director(1) 

Sidney Taurel                  45    Executive Vice President (since January 
                                     1993) and a Director

Joseph C. Cook, Jr.            52    Group Vice President, Manufacturing, 
                                     Engineering, and Corporate Quality 
                                       (since June 1992)(2)  

James M. Cornelius             50    Vice President, Finance and Chief 
                                     Financial Officer (since January 1983) 
                                     and a Director

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr.       44    President, North American Pharmaceutical
                                     Operations, Pharmaceutical Division 
                                     (since April 1993)(3) 

Ronald W. Dollens              47    President, Medical Devices and 
                                     Diagnostics Division (since July 1991)(3)

Michael L. Eagle               46    Vice President, Manufacturing (since 
                                     January 1994)(4) 

Brendan P. Fox                 50    President, Elanco Animal Health Division 
                                     (since January 1991)(3)

Pedro P. Granadillo            46    Vice President, Human Resources (since 
                                     April 1993)

J. B. King                     64    Vice President and General Counsel 
                                     (since October 1987)

Stephen A. Stitle              48    Vice President, Corporate Affairs (since 
                                     April 1993) and a Director

W. Leigh Thompson, Ph.D., M.D. 55    Chief Scientific Officer (since January 
                                     1993)(3)

August M. Watanabe, M.D.       52    Vice President (since January 1994) and 
                                     a Director(4)

- --------------------
1  Retired as an officer and director effective December 31, 1993
2  Retired as an officer effective December 31, 1993
3  Serves in office until his successor is appointed
4  Became executive officer January 1994

                                   -7-



                                   EMPLOYEES

At the end of 1993, the Company had approximately 32,700 employees, 
including approximately 11,000 employees outside the United States.  A 
substantial number of the Company's employees have long records of continuous 
service.  Approximately 2,600 employees, including 1,900 U.S. employees, are 
retiring under voluntary early retirement programs announced in the fourth 
quarter of 1993.

       FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS

Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations, set 
forth in the Company's 1993 Annual Report at pages 18-19 under "Review of 
Operations - Segment Information" (pages 12-13 of Exhibit 13), is incorporated 
herein by reference.

Eli Lilly International Corporation, a subsidiary, coordinates the 
Company's manufacture and sale of products outside the United States.

Local restrictions on the transfer of funds from branches and subsidiaries 
located abroad (including the availability of dollar exchange) have not to 
date been a significant deterrent in the Company's overall operations abroad.  
The Company cannot predict what effect these restrictions or the other risks 
inherent in foreign operations, including possible nationalization, might 
have on its future operations or what other restrictions may be imposed in 
the future.

                             RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

On January 18, 1994, the Company announced its intent to divest itself of 
its medical device and diagnostics ("MDD") businesses.  The final form of 
the divestiture has not been resolved.  It will depend on tax, market, and 
other considerations, including the nature of any offers the Company may 
receive from prospective purchasers of one or more of the businesses.  Current 
plans call for the creation of a new holding company comprising six of the 
businesses and the divestiture of the new company through a spin-off to 
Company shareholders, one or more public offerings of the holding 
company's shares, or a combination of these methods.  These six 
businesses are Advanced Cardiovascular Systems, Cardiac Pacemakers, Devices 
for Vascular Intervention, Heart Rhythm Technologies, IVAC, and Origin 
Medsystems.  The Company currently intends to sell separately the three other 
businesses in the MDD division - Hybritech, Pacific Biotech, and Physio-
Control.  The agreements under which the Company acquired Hybritech, Pacific 
Biotech, and Origin Medsystems include provisions that could affect the 
timing of these transactions.  

On March 8, 1994, the Company announced that it had signed a letter of 
intent with Sphinx Pharmaceuticals Corporation for  the acquisition of Sphinx 
by the Company.  Sphinx is engaged in drug discovery and development by 
generating combinatorial chemistry libraries of small organic molecules and 
by high-throughput screening of compounds for biological activity.  The 
transaction is subject to the signing of a definitive agreement, applicable 
government approval, and approval by Sphinx shareholders.  Three purported 
class actions have been filed by shareholders of Sphinx seeking, among other 
things, to enjoin the transaction.

Item 2.     PROPERTIES

The Company's principal domestic and international executive offices are 
located in Indianapolis.  At December 31, 1993, the Company owned 14 
production plants and facilities in the United States and Puerto Rico.  
These plants and facilities contain an aggregate of approximately 12 million 
square feet of floor area.  Most of the plants and facilities involve 
production of both pharmaceutical and animal health products.  The Company 
owns manufacturing, research, and administrative facilities for medical 
devices and diagnostic products, containing an aggregate of approximately 
1.9 million square feet, in seven cities in the United States and Puerto 
Rico.  The Company's Medical Devices and Diagnostics Division leases 
manufacturing, research, and administrative facilities in the United 

                                -8-



States containing an aggregate of approximately 800,000 square feet.  The 
Company also leases sales offices in a number of cities located in the 
United States.

The Company has 25 production plants and facilities in 19 countries 
outside the United States, containing an aggregate of approximately 3.9 
million square feet of floor space.  Leased production and warehouse 
facilities are utilized in some of these countries as well as in nine other 
countries including Puerto Rico.

The Company's main research and development laboratories in Indianapolis 
and Greenfield, Indiana, consist of approximately 2.8 million square feet.  
Its major research and development facilities abroad are located in 
Belgium and the United Kingdom and contain approximately 435,000 square feet.  
The Company also owns two tracts of land, containing an aggregate of 
approximately 1,700 acres, a portion of which is used for field studies 
of products.

The Company believes that none of its properties is subject to any 
encumbrance, easement, or other restriction that would detract materially 
from its value or impair its use in the operation of the business of the 
Company.  The buildings owned by the Company are of varying ages and in good 
condition.

Item 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is currently a defendant in a variety of product and patent 
litigation matters.  In approximately 205 actions, plaintiffs seek to recover 
damages on behalf of children or grandchildren of women who ingested 
diethylstilbestrol during pregnancy.  In another approximately 170 actions, 
plaintiffs seek to recover damages as a result of the ingestion of Prozac.  
In the patent suits, it is asserted that one or more Company products or 
processes infringe issued patents.  The holders of those patents seek 
monetary damages and injunctions against further infringement.  Products 
involved include Humulin, Humatrope, bovine somatotropin and certain medical 
devices.  

A federal grand jury in Baltimore, Maryland is conducting an inquiry into 
the Company's compliance with the Food and Drug Administration's regulatory 
requirements affecting the Company's pharmaceutical manufacturing operations.  
The Company is cooperating fully with the inquiry.

The Company has been named in approximately ten of more than 40 lawsuits 
filed in various federal courts against a number of U.S. pharmaceutical 
manufacturers and in some cases wholesalers.  Most of the suits in which the 
Company is a defendant purport to be class actions on behalf of all retail 
pharmacies in the United States and allege an industry-wide agreement to deny 
favorable pricing on sales to certain retail pharmacies.  At least one also 
alleges price discrimination.  The suits are in an early procedural stage.  

The Company is also a defendant in other litigation, including product 
liability suits, of a character regarded as normal to its business.  

While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcome of the legal 
actions pending against the Company, in the opinion of the Company such 
actions will not ultimately result in any liability that would have a 
material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position.

Item 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

During the fourth quarter of 1993, no matters were submitted to a vote of 
security holders.

                                   -9-




                                 PART II

Item 5.     MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
            MATTERS

Information relating to the principal market for the Company's common 
stock and related stockholder matters, set forth in the Company's 1993 Annual 
Report under "Review of Operations - Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)," at 
page 20 (page 14 of Exhibit 13), is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Selected financial data for each of the Company's five most recent fiscal 
years, set forth in the Company's 1993 Annual Report under "Review of 
Operations - Selected Financial Data (unaudited)," at page 21 (page 15 of 
Exhibit 13), are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND 
            FINANCIAL CONDITION 

Management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and 
financial condition, set forth in the Company's 1993 Annual Report under 
"Review of Operations - Operating Results" (pages 9-13), "Review of 
Operations - Financial Condition" (pages 13 and 16), and "Review of 
Operations - Environmental and Legal Matters" (page 16) (together, pages 
1-7 of Exhibit 13), is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, 
listed in Item 14(a)1 and included in the Company's 1993 Annual Report at 
pages 12, 14, 15, and 17 (Consolidated Statements of Income, Consolidated 
Balance Sheets, and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows), pages 18-19 
(Segment Information), and pages 22-33 (Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements) (together, pages 8-13 and 16-30 of Exhibit 13), and the Report of 
Independent Auditors set forth in the Company's 1993 Annual Report at page 34 
(page 31 of Exhibit 13), are incorporated herein by reference.

Information on quarterly results of operations, set forth in the Company's 
1993 Annual Report under "Review of Operations - Selected Quarterly Data 
(unaudited)," at page 20 (page 14 of Exhibit 13), is incorporated herein by 
reference.

Item 9.     DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

                                 PART III

Item 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information relating to the Company's directors, set forth in the 
Company's Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1994, under "Election of 
Directors - Nominees for Election," at pages 2-5, is incorporated herein by 
reference.  Information relating to the Company's executive officers is set 
forth at pages 6-7 of this Form 10-K under "Executive Officers of the 
Company."  Additional information with respect to the Company's directors 
and certain of its officers, set forth in the Company's Proxy Statement 
dated March 14, 1994, under "Other Matters," at page 25, is incorporated 
herein by reference.  

                                     -10-



Item 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information relating to executive compensation, set forth in the Company's 
Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1994, under "Election of Directors - 
Executive Compensation," at pages 9-20, is incorporated herein by reference, 
except that the Compensation and Management Development Committee Report and 
Performance Graph are not so incorporated.

Item 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information relating to ownership of the Company's common stock by persons 
known by the Company to be the beneficial owners of more than 5% of the 
outstanding shares of common stock and by management, set forth in the 
Company's Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1994, under "Election of 
Directors - Common Stock Ownership by Directors and Executive Officers," 
at pages 6-7, and "Election of Directors - Principal Holders of Common 
Stock," at page 8, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.

                                    PART IV

Item 14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)1.     Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries, included in the Company's 1993 Annual Report at the pages 
indicated in parentheses, are incorporated by reference in Item 8:

Consolidated Statements of Income - Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, 
and 1991 (page 12) (page 8 of Exhibit 13)

Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1993 and 1992 (pages 14-15) 
(pages 9-10 of Exhibit 13)

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years Ended December 31, 1993, 
1992, and 1991 (page 17) (page 11 of Exhibit 13)

Segment Information (pages 18-19) (pages 12-13 of Exhibit 13)

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 22-33) (pages 16-30 of 
Exhibit 13)

(a)2.     Financial Statement Schedules

The following consolidated financial statement schedules of the Company 
and its subsidiaries are included in this Form 10-K:

Schedule I     Marketable Securities - Other Investments (page F-1)

Schedule V     Property, Plant, and Equipment (page F-2)

Schedule VI    Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization of 
               Property, Plant, and Equipment (page F-3)

                                   -11-



Schedule VII   Guarantees of Securities of Other Issuers (page F-4)

Schedule VIII  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (page F-5)

Schedule IX    Short-Term Borrowings (page F-6)

Schedule X     Supplementary Income Statement Information (page F-7)

All other schedules (Nos. II, III, IV, XI, XII, XIII, and XIV) for which 
provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions, are 
inapplicable, or are adequately explained in the financial statements and, 
therefore, have been omitted.

Financial statements of interests of 50% or less, which are accounted for 
by the equity method, have been omitted because they do not, considered in 
the aggregate as a single subsidiary, constitute a significant subsidiary.

The report of the Company's independent auditors with respect to the 
schedules listed above is contained herein as a part of Exhibit 23, Consent 
of Independent Auditors.  

(a)3.     Exhibits

3.1     Amended Articles of Incorporation 

3.2     By-laws 

4.1     Form of 7% Bond 1984-1994/96 of Eli Lilly Overseas Finance N.V. 

4.2     Form of Guarantee dated as of January 9, 1984, by Eli Lilly and 
        Company to Holders of 7% Bonds 1984-1994/96 of Eli Lilly 
        Overseas Finance N.V. 

4.3     Form of Letter Agreement dated as of January 9, 1984, between 
        Eli Lilly and Company, Eli Lilly Overseas Finance N.V., and 
        Swiss Bank Corporation

4.4     Form of Bond Purchase Agreement dated as of December 3, 1984, 
        including form of Bond, between City of Clinton, Indiana, Eli 
        Lilly and Company, and Chemical Bank*  

4.5     Form of Loan Agreement dated as of December 3, 1984, between Eli 
        Lilly and Company and City of Clinton, Indiana* 

4.6     Form of Bond Purchase Agreement dated as of December 3, 1984, 
        including form of Bond, between Tippecanoe County, Indiana, Eli 
        Lilly and Company, and Chemical Bank* 

4.7     Form of Loan Agreement dated as of December 3, 1984, between Eli 
        Lilly and Company and Tippecanoe County, Indiana* 

4.8     Form of Indenture dated as of May 15, 1985, between Eli Lilly 
        and Company and Merchants National Bank & Trust Company of 
        Indianapolis, as Trustee 

4.9     Form of Eli Lilly and Company Convertible Debenture due 1994 

4.10    Form of Indenture with respect to Contingent Payment Obligation 
        Units dated March 18, 1986, between Eli Lilly and Company and 
        Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee

- ---------------------
* Exhibits 4.4-4.7 are not filed with this report.  Copies of these
  exhibits will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
  upon request.

                                  -12-



4.11    Rights Agreement dated as of July 18, 1988, between Eli Lilly
        and Company and Bank One, Indianapolis, NA

4.12    Form of Indenture dated as of February 21, 1989, between Eli 
        Lilly and Company and Merchants National Bank & Trust Company of 
        Indianapolis, as Trustee

4.13    Form of Eli Lilly and Company Five Year Convertible Note

4.14    Form of Indenture with respect to Debt Securities dated as of 
        February 1, 1991, between Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, 
        N.A., as Trustee

4.15    Form of Standard Multiple-Series Indenture Provisions dated, 
        and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on, 
        February 1, 1991

4.16    Form of Indenture dated as of September 5, 1991, among the Lilly 
        Savings Plan Master Trust Fund C, as Issuer; Eli Lilly and 
        Company, as Guarantor; and Chemical Bank, as Trustee* 

10.1    1984 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended

10.2    1989 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended

10.3    The Lilly Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended

10.4    The Lilly Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended

10.5    The Lilly Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Stock Plan, as 
        amended

10.6    Eli Lilly and Company Senior Executive Bonus Plan, as amended

10.7    The Lilly Non-Employee Directors' Retirement Plan

10.8    Letter Agreement dated September 3, 1993, between the Company and 
        Vaughn D. Bryson

11.     Computation of Earnings Per Share on Primary and Fully Diluted 
        Bases

12.     Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

13.     Annual Report to Shareholders for the Year Ended December 31, 
        1993 (portions incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K)

21.     List of Subsidiaries

23.     Consent of Independent Auditors

99.     Report to Holders of Eli Lilly and Company Contingent Payment 
        Obligation Units

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

The Company filed no Reports on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of 
1993.  

- -----------------
* Exhibit 4.16 is not filed with this report.  Copies of this exhibit
  will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
  request.

                                     -13-



                                 SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                    ELI LILLY AND COMPANY


                                   By s/Randall L. Tobias 
                                      (Randall L. Tobias, Chairman of the 
                                       Board and Chief Executive Officer)

                                                  March 21, 1994

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

     SIGNATURE                         TITLE                        DATE 


s/Randall L. Tobias                 Chairman of the Board,      March 21, 1994
(RANDALL L. TOBIAS)                 Chief Executive
                                    Officer, and a Director
                                    (principal executive officer)

s/James M. Cornelius                Vice President, Finance,    March 21, 1994
(JAMES M. CORNELIUS)                Chief Financial Officer,
                                    and a Director (principal
                                    financial officer)

s/Keith E. Brauer                   Chief Accounting Officer    March 21, 1994
(KEITH E. BRAUER)                   (principal accounting officer)

s/Steven C. Beering, M.D.           Director                    March 21, 1994
(STEVEN C. BEERING, M.D.)

s/James W. Cozad                    Director                    March 21, 1994
(JAMES W. COZAD)

                                    Director                    March 21, 1994
(KAREN N. HORN, Ph.D.)

s/J. Clayburn La Force, Jr., Ph.D.  Director                    March 21, 1994
(J. CLAYBURN LA FORCE, JR., Ph.D.)

s/Kenneth L. Lay, Ph.D.             Director                    March 21, 1994
(KENNETH L. LAY, Ph.D.)

                                    -14-


s/Ben F. Love                       Director                    March 21, 1994
(BEN F. LOVE)

s/Stephen A. Stitle                 Director                    March 21, 1994
(STEPHEN A. STITLE)

s/Sidney Taurel                     Director                    March 21, 1994
(SIDNEY TAUREL)

s/August M. Watanabe, M.D.          Director                    March 21, 1994
(AUGUST M. WATANABE, M.D.)

s/Alva O. Way                       Director                    March 21, 1994
(ALVA O. WAY)

s/Richard D. Wood                   Director                    March 21, 1994
(RICHARD D. WOOD)


                                    -15-



TRADEMARKS

Apralan(Registered) (apramycin sulfate, Elanco)
Axid(Registered) (nizatidine, Lilly)
Ceclor(Registered) (cefaclor, Lilly)
Coban(Registered) (monensin sodium, Elanco)
Compudose(Registered) (estradiol controlled-release implant, 
Elanco)
Darvocet-N(Registered) (propoxyphene napsylate with 
acetaminophen, Lilly)
Dobutrex(Registered) (dobutamine hydrochloride, Lilly)
Eldisine(Registered) (vindesine sulfate, Lilly)
Humatrope(Registered) (somatropin of recombinant DNA origin, 
Lilly)
Humulin(Registered) (human insulin of recombinant DNA origin, 
Lilly)
lletin(Registered) (insulin, Lilly)
Keflex(Registered) (cephalexin, Dista)
Keftab(Registered) (cephalexin hydrochloride, Dista)
Kefurox(Registered) (cefuroxime sodium, Lilly)
Kefzol(Registered) (cefazolin sodium, Lilly)
Lorabid(Trademark) (loracarbef, Lilly)
Mandol(Registered) (cefamandole nafate, Lilly)
Maxiban(Registered) (narasin and nicarbazine, Elanco)
Micotil(Registered) (tilmicosin phosphate, Elanco)
Monteban(Registered) (narasin, Elanco)
Nebcin(Registered) (tobramycin sulfate, Lilly)
Oncovin(Registered) (vincristine sulfate, Lilly)
Prozac(Registered) (fluoxetine hydrochloride, Dista)
Rumensin(Registered) (monensin sodium, Elanco)
Tazidime(Registered) (ceftazidime, Lilly)
Tylan(Registered) (tylosin, Elanco)
Vancocin(Registered) (vancomycin hydrochloride, Lilly)
Velban(Registered) (vinblastine sulfate, Lilly)




                ELI LILLY AND COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
      SCHEDULE I.  MARKETABLE SECURITIES - OTHER INVESTMENTS
                         DECEMBER 31, 1993

   Col. A                 Col. B      Col. C   Col. D     Col. E
   ------                 ------      ------   ------     ---------
                                                          Amount at
                                                          Which Each
                          Number                          Portfolio of
                          of Shares                       Equity
                          or Units-            Market     Security Issues
                          Principal            Value of   and Each Other
                          Amount of   Cost of  Issue at   Security Issue
Name of Issuer            Bonds       Each     Balance    Carried in the
and Title of Issue        and Notes   Issue    Sheet Date  Balance Sheet
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         (Dollars in millions)

CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT, TIME
   DEPOSITS, AND
   INTEREST-BEARING DEMAND
   DEPOSITS               $ 491.8     $ 491.8    $ 492.1       $ 491.8

REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS
   Collateralized by U.S.
   government or U.S.
   government agency
   securities                28.0        28.0       28.0          28.0

   Collateralized by other
   investments               42.3        42.3       42.3          42.3

EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND
  LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS      216.5       216.5      221.3         204.0

EURO COMMERCIAL PAPER
   AND BONDS                390.4       390.4      388.5         386.0

   TOTALS                $1,169.0    $1,169.0   $1,172.2      $1,152.1
                          =======     =======    =======       =======
Classified as:
  Current asset - Cash equivalent                             $  482.9
                - Short-term investments                         447.5

  Noncurrent asset                                               221.7
                                                                 -----
   TOTAL                                                      $1,152.1
                                                               =======

Securities classified as cash equivalents                     $  482.9
Cash                                                              56.7
                                                                 -----
Cash and cash equivalents                                     $  539.6
                                                                 =====


                                     F-1




                ELI LILLY AND COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

               SCHEDULE V.  PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT

    Col. A       Col. B     Col. C    Col. D        Col E          Col. F
    ------       ------     ------    ------  -------------------  -------
                                                           Other
               Balance at                                 Changes
               Beginning    (A)              Add (Deduct)  Add     Balance
               of         Additions          Translation  (Deduct) At End
Classification Period     At Cost  Retirements Adjustments Describe of Period

                            (Dollars in millions)

Year Ended
  Dec 31, 1991
   Land        $  102.1     $ 8.8   $    -  $    .6  $        - $   111.5
   Buildings    1,141.3     228.0      9.2     (2.3)          -   1,357.8
   Equipment    2,376.9     500.2     76.2     (5.6)          -   2,795.3
   Construction-
     in-progress  895.5     405.4        -      3.1           -   1,304.0
                 ------     -----     -----    -----              -------
       TOTALS  $4,515.8 $1, 142.4   $ 85.4  $  (4.2) $        - $ 5,568.6
                =======  ========     ====      ====              =======
Year Ended
  Dec 31, 1992
   Land        $  111.5  $   3.1    $ 0.3  $  (0.4)  $ (1.1)(B) $  112.8
   Buildings    1,357.8    371.6     30.8    (30.4)   (12.8)(B)  1,655.4
   Equipment    2,795.3    756.5    126.6    (83.6)     2.7 (B)  3,344.3
   Construction-
    in-progress 1,304.0   (218.3)       -    (16.9)   (33.2)(B)  1,035.6
                -------   ------   -----   -------   ------      -------
TOTALS        $5,568.6  $ 912.9   $157.7  $(131.3)  $(44.4)(B) $ 6,148.1
               =======    =====    =====   =======    =====      =======
Year Ended
  Dec 31, 1993
   Land        $  112.8   $ 15.4   $  0.1  $   0.2   $  1.9 (B) $  130.2
   Buildings    1,655.4    312.3     10.4    (14.7)    14.7 (B)  1,957.3
   Equipment    3,344.3    563.3     60.9    (39.6)   (35.4)(B)  3,771.7
   Construction-
    in-progress 1,035.6   (257.5)       -    (14.5)   (56.3)(B)    707.3
                -------    -----     ----    ------   ------     -------     
        TOTALS $6,148.1   $633.5   $ 71.4  $ (68.6)  $(75.1)(B) $6,566.5
                =======    =====     ====    ======   ======     =======

- -----------------
NOTE A   Additions represent cash expenditures for projects in numerous
locations both inside and outside the United States.  In 1992 and 1993
there were no major projects for which cash expenditures exceeded 2% of
total assets at either the beginning or the end of the year.  In 1991
the 2% threshold was exceeded by one major project relating to an anticipated
new product launch.  Expenditures for this project were primarily for
additions at Indiana locations.

NOTE B   Amounts shown are attributable to corporate restructuring,
acquisitions, divestitures and miscellaneous reclassifications.

The range of annual rates used in computing provisions for depreciation was 2
percent to 10 percent for buildings and generally 4 percent to 25 percent for
equipment.

                                         F-2



                ELI LILLY AND COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

   SCHEDULE VI.  ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION, AND AMORTIZATION
                      OF PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT


    Col. A   Col. B     Col. C    Col. D        Col E               Col. F
    ------   ------     ------    ------    --------------------    ------
                                                           Other
             Balance at Additions                          Changes
             Beginning  Charged to            Add (Deduct) Add       Balance
             of         Costs and             Translation  (Deduct)  At End
Description  Period     Expenses  Retirements Adjustments  Describe  of Period
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            (Dollars in millions)



Year Ended
  Dec 31, 1991
  Buildings   $  377.1   $ 48.9   $ 6.3        $. 1    $   -      $ 419.8
  Equipment    1,202.0    218.5    52.5        (1.7)       -      1,366.3
               -------    -----    ----       ------     -----    -------
     TOTALS   $1,579.1   $267.4   $58.8      $( 1.6)   $   -     $1,786.1
               =======   ======    ====       =====      =====    =======
Year Ended
  Dec 31, 1992
  Buildings   $  419.8   $ 62.3  $ 21.3      $ (8.4)   $ 32.2(A) $  484.6
  Equipment    1,366.3    268.3    97.6       (40.4)     94.8(A)  1,591.4
               -------    -----   -----        -----    -----     -------
     TOTALS   $1,786.1   $330.6  $118.9      $(48.8)   $127.0(A) $2,076.0
               =======    =====   =====       ======    =====     =======
Year Ended
  Dec 31, 1993
  Buildings   $  484.6   $ 74.1   $ 4.9      $ (4.6)   $  9.2(A) $  558.4
  Equipment    1,591.4    294.5    58.9       (20.1)      1.0(A)  1,807.9
               -------    -----   -----       ------      ----    -------
   TOTALS     $2,076.0   $368.6   $63.8      $(24.7)   $ 10.2(A) $2,366.3
               =======    =====    ====       ======     ====     =======

NOTE A - Amounts shown are primarily attributable to corporate
         restructuring, divestitures and transfers between accounts.


                                   F-3




               ELI LILLY AND COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

        SCHEDULE VII.  GUARANTEES OF SECURITIES OF OTHER ISSUERS


   Col. A   Col. B     Col. C     Col. D      Col. E     Col. F     Col. G
   ------   ------     ------     ------      ------     ------  -----------
                                                                   Nature of
                                                                   any default
                                                                   by issuer of
                                                                   securities
                                                                   guaranteed
                                                                   in principal
Name of                                                            interest,
Issuer of                                                          sinking fund
securities Title of               Amount owned                     or
guaranteed Issue      Total       by person   Amount in            redemption
by person  of each    amount      or persons  treasury of          provisions,
for which class of    guaranteed  for which   issuer of            or
statement securities  and         statement   securities Nature of payments of
is filed  guaranteed  outstanding is filed    guaranteed guarantee dividends


- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The          Harding St.
Indianapolis Project                                   Debt
Local Public Bonds   $35,451,123   -0-                 Service      None
Improvement
Bond Bank

                                      F-4




                  ELI LILLY AND COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

            SCHEDULE VIII.  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



      Col. A    Col. B       Col. C                    Col. D     Col.E
      ------    ------       ------                    -------     ------
                            Additions
                              (1)         (2)
                 Balance at Charged to Charged to                 Balance
                 Beginning  Costs and  Other Accounts-Deductions- at End
    Description  of Period  Expenses   Describe       Describe    of Period
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             (Dollars in millions)

                                 (A)       (A)           (A)

Year Ended
December 31, 1991
Allowance for
cash discounts
and returns        $ 6.2                                         $ 6.6
Allowance for
doubtful accounts   17.1                                          21.0
                    ----                                          ----
  TOTALS           $23.3                                         $27.6
                    ====                                          ====
Year Ended
December 31, 1992
Allowance for
cash discounts
and returns       $ 6.6                                          $ 8.1
Allowance for
doubtful accounts  21.0                                           26.9
                   ----                                           ----
      TOTALS      $27.6                                          $35.0
                   ====                                           ====
Year Ended
December 31, 1993
Allowance for
cash discounts
and returns      $ 8.1                                          $ 8.6
Allowance for
doubtful accounts 26.9                                           23.7
                  ----                                           ----
  TOTALS         $35.0                                          $32.3
                  ====                                           ====
NOTE A -   The information called for under columns C and D is not
given, as the additions, deductions, and balances are not
individually significant.

                                     F-5



                    ELI LILLY AND COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                    SCHEDULE IX.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS


       Col. A          Col. B    Col. C    Col. D      Col. E    Col.F
       ------          ------    ------    ------      ------    --------
                                                                  Weighted
                                                      Average     Average
                                         Maximum      Amount      Interest
                       Balance Weighted  Amount       Outstanding Rate
                       at      Average   Outstanding  During      During
Category of Aggregate  End of  Interest  During the   the         the
Short-Term Borrowings  Period  Rate      Period       Period(C)   Period(D)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            (Dollars in millions)

Year Ended
December 31, 1991
 Payable to banks (A)  $315.0   6%      $ 324.4      $ 188.5        7%
 Commercial paper (B)   375.2   5%      1,160.6        482.7        6%
                        -----
 Short-term
   borrowings          $690.2   6%


Year Ended
December 31, 1992
 Payable to banks (A)  $174.9   6%       $350.4      $ 287.3        7%
 Commercial paper (B)   416.3   3%        837.2        541.6        4%
                        -----
 Short-term
   borrowings          $591.2   4%

Year Ended
December 31, 1993
 Payable to banks (A)  $178.4   7%       $195.2       $114.7        9%
 Commercial paper (B)   346.4   3%        877.6        434.7        3%
                        -----
 Short-term
  borrowings           $524.8   4%

- -----------------------

NOTE A -   Amounts payable to banks represent worldwide borrowings
           under lines-of-credit and the current portion of long-
           term debt.

NOTE B -   Commercial paper is issued in the United States for
           periods up to 270 days.

NOTE C -   Average of daily balances.

NOTE D -   Total interest divided by average borrowings
           outstanding.


                                   F-6




                 ELI LILLY AND COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

          SCHEDULE X.  SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Col. A                         Col. B
             -------                   --------------------------------
               Item                    Charged to Costs and Expenses
                                          Year Ended December 31
                                       -------------------------------
                                              1993   1992   1991
                                       -------------------------------
                                            (Dollars in millions)


Maintenance and repairs                    $178.8   $193.4   $178.7

Taxes, other than payroll and income         77.7     77.4     57.3

Advertising costs                            29.6     24.3     21.0

Royalty expense                             107.2     87.0     79.4

Amounts for depreciation and amortization of intangible assets
are presented in the Statements of Cash Flows.






                                      F-7

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

     The following documents are filed as part of this report:


Exhibit                                   Location
- -------                                   --------

                                    
3.1     Amended Articles of               Incorporated by reference
        Incorporation                     from Exhibit 3(i) to the
                                          Company's Registration
                                          Statement on Form S-8,
                                          Registration No. 33-50783
                                                                     
3.2     By-laws                           Filed herewith
                                     
                                     
4.1     Form of 7% Bond 1984-1994/96      Incorporated by reference
        of Eli Lily Overseas Finance      from Exhibit 4.1 to the
        N.V.                              Company's Report on Form
                                          10-K for the fiscal year
                                          ended December 31, 1990
                                     
4.2     Form of Guarantee dated as        Incorporated by reference
        of January 9, 1984, by Eli        from Exhibit 4.2 to the
        Lilly and Company to Holders      Company's Report on Form
        of 7% Bonds 1984-1994/96 of       10-K for the fiscal year
        Eli Lilly Overseas Finance        ended December 31, 1990
        N.V.                         
                                     
4.3     Form of Letter Agreement          Incorporated by reference
        dated as of January 9, 1984,      from Exhibit 4.3 to the
        between Eli Lilly and             Company's Report on Form
        Company, Eli Lilly Overseas       10-K for the fiscal year
        Finance N.V., and Swiss Bank      ended December 31, 1990
        Corporation
        
4.4     Form of Bond Purchase             *
        Agreement dated as of
        December 3, 1984, including
        form of Bond, between City
        of Clinton, Indiana, Eli
        Lilly and Company, and
        Chemical Bank
        
4.5     Form of Loan Agreement dated      *
        as of December 3, 1984,
        between Eli Lilly and
        Company and City of Clinton,
        Indiana
        
4.6     Form of Bond Purchase             *
        Agreement dated as of
        December 3, 1984, including
        form of Bond, between
        Tippecanoe County, Indiana,
        Eli Lilly and Company, and
        Chemical Bank
                                            
4.7     Form of Loan Agreement dated      *
        as of December 3, 1984,
        between Eli Lilly and
        Company and Tippecanoe
        County, Indiana

- ------------------
* Exhibits 4.4-4.7 are not filed with this report.  Copies of these exhibits
  will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

        

4.8     Form of Indenture dated as        Incorporated by reference
        of May 15, 1985, between Eli      from Exhibit 4(a) to the
        Lilly and Company and             Company's Registration
        Merchants National Bank &         Statement on Form S-15,
        Trust Company of                  Registration No. 2-96799
        Indianapolis, as Trustee     
                                     
4.9     Form of Eli Lilly and             Incorporated by reference
        Company Convertible               from Exhibit 4(b) to the
        Debenture due 1994                Company's Registration
                                          Statement on Form S-15,
                                          Registration No. 2-96799
                                     
4.10    Form of Indenture with            Incorporated by reference
        respect to Contingent             from Exhibit 4.3 to the
        Payment Obligation Units          Company's Registration
        dated March 18, 1986,             Statement on Form S-4,
        between Eli Lilly and             Registration No. 33-3330
        Company and Harris Trust and
        Savings Bank, as Trustee
        
4.11    Rights Agreement dated as of      Filed herewith
        July 18, 1988, between Eli   
        Lilly and Company and Bank
        One, Indianapolis, N.A.
        
4.12    Form of Indenture dated as        Incorporated by reference
        of February 21, 1989,             from Exhibit 4.16 to the
        between Eli Lilly and             Company's Report on Form
        Company and Merchants             10-K for the fiscal year
        National Bank & Trust             ended December 31, 1988
        Company of Indianapolis, as
        Trustee
        
4.13    Form of Eli Lilly and             Incorporated by reference
        Company Five Year                 from Exhibit 4.17 to the
        Convertible Note                  Company's Report on Form
                                          10-K for the fiscal year
                                          ended December 31, 1988
                                     
4.14    Form of Indenture with            Incorporated by reference
        respect to Debt Securities        from Exhibit 4.1 to the
        dated as of February 1,           Company's Registration
        1991, between Eli Lilly and       Statement on Form S-3,
        Company and Citibank, N.A.,       Registration No. 33-38347
        as Trustee
        
                                    
4.15    Form of Standard Multiple-        Incorporated by reference
        Series Indenture Provisions       from Exhibit 4.2 to the
        dated, and filed with the         Company's Registration
        Securities and Exchange           Statement on Form S-3,
        Commission on, February 1,        Registration No. 33-38347
        
4.16    Form of Indenture dated as        *
        of September 5, 1991, among
        the Lilly Savings Plan
        Master Trust Fund C, as
        Issuer; Eli Lilly and
        Company, as Guarantor; and
        Chemical Bank, as Trustee

- ---------------------
* Exhibit 4.16 is not filed with this report.  Copies of this exhibit
  will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

        
10.1    1984 Lilly Stock Plan, as         Incorporated by reference
        amended                           from Exhibit 10.2 to the
                                          Company's Report on Form
                                          10-K for the fiscal year
                                          ended December 31, 1988

10.2    1989 Lilly Stock Plan, as         Filed herewith
        amended                      

10.3    The Lilly Deferred                Incorporated by reference
        Compensation Plan, as             from Exhibit 10.4 to the
        amended                           Company's Report on Form
                                          10-K for the fiscal year
                                          ended December 31, 1991
                                     
10.4    The Lilly Directors'              Incorporated by reference
        Deferred Compensation Plan,       from Exhibit 10.5 to the
        as amended                        Company's Report on Form
                                          10-K for the fiscal year
                                          ended December 31, 1991
                                     
10.5    The Lilly Non-Employee            Incorporated by reference
        Directors' Deferred Stock         from Exhibit 10.6 to the
        Plan, as amended                  Company's Report on Form
                                          10-K for the fiscal year
                                          ended December 31, 1991
                                     
10.6    Eli Lilly and Company Senior      Filed herewith
        Executive Bonus Plan, as     
        amended                      

10.7    The Lilly Non-Employee            Incorporated by reference
        Directors' Retirement Plan        from Exhibit 10.7 to the
                                          Company's Report on Form
                                          10-K for the fiscal year
                                          ended December 31, 1988
                                                                         
10.8    Letter Agreement dated            Filed herewith
        September 3, 1993, between
        the Company and Vaughn D.
        Bryson
        
11.     Computation of Earnings Per       Filed herewith
        Share on Primary and Fully
        Diluted Bases
        
12.     Computation of Ratio of           Filed herewith
        Earnings to Fixed Charges
        

13.     Annual Report to                  Filed herewith
        Shareholders for the Year
        Ended December 31, 1993
        (portions incorporated by
        reference in this Form 10-K)
        
21.     List of Subsidiaries              Filed herewith
        
23.     Consent of Independent            Filed herewith
        Auditors                     

99.     Report to Holders of Eli          Filed herewith
        Lilly and Company Contingent
        Payment Obligation Units



