ITEM 1A.Risk Factors

Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could
negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business
may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of
operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.

Our success depends on our ability to
effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors.

We operate in a highly competitive
environment. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. To remain competitive, we
must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. Competition is primarily on the basis of:

•technology;

•innovation;

•quality;

•reputation; and

•customer service.

In markets outside of the U.S., other factors influence competition as well, including:

•local distribution systems;

•complex regulatory environments; and

•differing medical philosophies and product preferences.

Our competitors may:

•have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us;

•respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies;

•undertake more extensive marketing campaigns;

•adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or

•be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners.

Any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty
maintaining or increasing sales of our products.

If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may
become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline.

Demand for
our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of:

•evolving customer needs;

•changing demographics;

•slowing industry growth rates;

•declines in the reconstructive implant market;

•the introduction of new products and technologies;

•evolving surgical philosophies; and

•evolving industry standards.

Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. If that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new
product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to:

•properly identify and anticipate customer needs;

•commercialize new products in a timely manner;

•manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time;

•differentiate our offerings from competitors’ offerings;

•achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products;

•satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost
procedures;

•innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and

•provide adequate medical education relating to new products.

In addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors:

•entrenched patterns of clinical practice;

•the need for regulatory clearance; and

•uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement.

Moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to
fund the production. In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they
may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features.

If third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be
harmed.

We sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which
receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. These third-party payors may deny reimbursement if
they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for
experimental procedures and devices.

In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs
by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. If third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we
may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.

We have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. If key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the
reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected.

The U.S. healthcare
reform legislation includes provisions that may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.

The ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Many customers for our products have formed group purchasing
organizations in an effort to contain costs. Group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization’s
affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has
negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to respond to the
cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.

We are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products,
non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The medical
devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be
costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in
substantial additional costs.

Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under
FDA regulations. Compliance with the FDA’s requirements, including the Quality System regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is
monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA, which may result in observations on Form 483, and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not
in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a
recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such devices, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates to foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and
others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical
devices and assess civil or criminal









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict
us from effectively marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the International Standards Organization. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations,
our business could be harmed.

If we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, we could face
substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Our industry is
subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal Stark law, the federal Physician Payments Sunshine
Act and similar state and foreign laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the U.S., exclusion from participation in government healthcare
programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration (VA) health programs. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change.

The “conflict minerals” rule may adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture
of our products, may increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and harm our reputation.

We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the U.S., which
subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs.

We sell our
products in more than 100 countries and derived almost 50 percent of our net sales in 2013 from outside the U.S. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to
additional risks associated with international sales and operations. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:

•changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;

•unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;

•differing local product preferences and product requirements;

•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;

•diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S.;

•trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our
operating costs;

•foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;

•complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws;

•extraterritorial effects of U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;

•effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the UK Bribery Act;

•difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations;

•labor force instability;

•potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and

•political and economic instability.

Violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.

We may have additional tax liabilities.

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business,
there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any
related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that
determination is made.

We earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the U.S., and any repatriation of
funds representing earnings of foreign subsidiaries may significantly impact our effective tax rates. In addition, there have been proposals to change U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow.

Challenging global economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations.

We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to
decline and expose us to counterparty risks.

A substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in Europe and
Japan. The U.S. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro or the Japanese Yen, as well as other currencies, could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may
not prove to be fully effective.

Pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our
financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation.

Our business exposes us to potential product
liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects
or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. As previously reported, we temporarily suspended

the marketing and distribution of ourDurom®Acetabular Component (DuromCup) in the U.S. in July 2008. Subsequently, a number of product liability lawsuits and other claims have been asserted against us. We have settled some of these claims and the others are still pending. Additional
claims may be asserted in the future. We are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to
defend. Product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers.

Although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that
we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement. Furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our
insurance policies and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to
protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products,
or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others.

Claims of intellectual property
infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly. At any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of
patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation could result in our payment of
significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business and results of operations.

Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. We rely on a
combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure and other agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents,
trade secrets and other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in
the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the
required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.

In addition, intellectual property rights may be
unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. If we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and
revenue.

We also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with
security measures, including the use of non-disclosure and other agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that
others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge.

We are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes.

In addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial litigation and
claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and
management’s view of these matters may change in the future. Given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. We could
in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period.

If we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline.

Our marketing success in the U.S. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents’ and distributors’ sales and
service expertise in the marketplace. Many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents’ detailed knowledge of products and instruments. A loss of a significant number of
these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We depend on a limited number
of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities.

We use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we
need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. These suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. Some key raw
materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. A prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or

outsource key manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products.

Future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating
results.

Our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisition activity and
represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be
recoverable. If the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our
businesses decline, we could be required, under current U.S. accounting rules, to record a non-cash charge to operating earnings for the amount of the impairment. Any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would
negatively affect our results of operations.

We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if
we fail to effectively maintain or protect the integrity of our information systems and data, our business could be adversely affected.









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business.We may make additional acquisitions or enter into strategic alliances that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive.We intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our
businesses and other companies with whom we could form strategic alliances or enter into other arrangements to develop or exploit intellectual property rights. These activities involve risks, including the following:•we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable
activities;

•the difficulties of integrating acquired businesses may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with
disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures;•we may not recognize expected cost savings or the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or strategic alliances;•our acquisition candidates or strategic partners may have unexpected liabilities or prove unable to meet their obligations to us or the joint venture;
and•the priorities of our strategic partners may prove incompatible with ours.