ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

We are a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, consumer and industrial markets globally with innovative solutions, applications
and market-leading products. We operate in three distinct business segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals. Our Agricultural Products segment develops, markets and sells all three major classes of crop
protection chemicals—insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides—with particular strength in insecticides and herbicides. These products are used in agriculture to enhance crop yield and quality by controlling a broad spectrum of insects,
weeds and disease, as well as pest control in non-agricultural markets. Specialty Chemicals consists of our BioPolymer and lithium businesses and focuses on food ingredients that are used to enhance texture, structure and physical stability,
pharmaceutical additives for binding, encapsulation and disintegrant applications, ultrapure biopolymers for medical devices and lithium specialties for pharmaceutical synthesis, specialty polymers and energy storage. Our Industrial Chemicals
segment manufactures a wide range of inorganic materials, including soda ash, hydrogen peroxide, specialty peroxygens and phosphorus chemicals.

The following table shows the principal products produced by our three business segments and their raw materials and uses:



SegmentProductRaw MaterialsUsesAgricultural ProductsInsecticidesSyntheticchemicalintermediatesProtection of crops, including cotton, sugarcane, rice,corn, soybeans, cereals, fruits and vegetables frominsects and for non-agricultural applicationsincluding pest control for home, garden and otherspecialty marketsHerbicidesSyntheticchemicalintermediatesProtection of crops, including cotton, sugarcane, rice,corn, soybeans, cereals, fruits and vegetables fromweed growth and for non-agricultural applicationsincluding turf and roadsidesSpecialty ChemicalsMicrocrystallineCelluloseSpecialty pulpDrug dry tablet binder and disintegrant, foodingredientCarrageenanRefined seaweedFood ingredient for thickening and stabilizing,encapsulants for pharmaceutical and nutraceuticalAlginatesRefined seaweedFood ingredients, pharmaceutical excipient, woundcare, orthopedic uses and industrial usesLithiumMined lithiumPharmaceuticals, polymers, batteries, greases andlubricants, air conditioning and other industrial usesIndustrial ChemicalsSoda AshMined trona oreGlass, chemicals, detergentsPeroxygensHydrogenPulp & paper, chemical processing, detergents,antimicrobial disinfectants, environmentalapplications, electronics, and polymersPhosphorusChemicalsMined phosphaterockDetergents, cleaning compounds, animal feed







We have operations in many areas around the world. With a worldwide manufacturing and
distribution infrastructure, we are able to respond rapidly to global customer needs, offset downward economic trends in one region with positive trends in another and better match revenues to local costs to mitigate the impact of currency
volatility. The charts below detail our sales and long-lived assets by major geographic region.



Revenues by Region - 2009Long-lived Assets by Region - 2009Revenue: $2,826.2 millionLong-lived Assets: $1,407.8 million

Our Strategy

Our corporate strategy is balanced between driving growth and innovation within our Specialty Chemicals and Agricultural Products segments and generating strong cash flow in our Industrial Chemicals
segment. Our long-term objectives are as follows:

Realize the operating leverage inherent in our
businesses.We intend to maximize earnings growth and return on capital by maintaining or enhancing our market positions, reducing costs and prudently managing our asset base. In soda ash, we continually strive to optimize
our proprietary and low-cost solution mining and longwall mining techniques, thereby reducing our production costs, which we believe are already the lowest in the industry. In Foret, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment, we are
selectively shutting down higher cost production capacities to improve profitability. In Agricultural Products, we completed the shutdown of operations at our Baltimore, Maryland facility as part of our ongoing program to reduce manufacturing costs
by producing our products and/or intermediates in lower-cost locations. Additionally, we shut down our peroxygens’ manufacturing facility in Santa Clara, Mexico, our lithium facility in Bayport, Texas, our Lithium metal production unit in
Bromborough, UK and we also curtailed our soda ash operations at our Granger, Wyoming facility.

Maintain strategic and
financial flexibility.Going forward, we expect continued, sustained growth in our operating profit and resulting cash provided by operating activities. Furthermore, our businesses will meet future expected demand growth
through a combination of debottlenecking current production, restarting mothballed capacity and sourcing from third parties.

Focus the portfolio on higher growth businesses.Our goal is to achieve the highest overall growth while continuing to generate returns above our cost of capital. In this regard, we intend to focus on building
upon our core franchises in the food ingredient, pharmaceutical, energy storage, crop protection and non-agricultural pest control markets that exist within the Specialty Chemicals and Agricultural Products segments. Innovation will continue to be a
core element of our growth strategy in both of these business segments. Our BioPolymer business is developing new pharmaceutical delivery systems and working closely with top global food companies in the development of new health and convenience
foods. Our lithium business is developing applications for







energy storage markets to serve the rapid growth in global demand for hand-held electronic devices. Our Agricultural Products business is testing proprietary product differentiating technologies
which could improve the biological efficacy and/or the cost competitiveness of existing and new chemistries, thereby potentially enhancing those products’ market acceptance and value to end-users. In addition to innovation, product or business
acquisitions, in-licensing, alliances, and equity ventures are also strategic options we may consider to enhance our technology offerings, broaden our market access and extend our geographic footprint. Each growth opportunity will be evaluated in
the context of value creation for our shareholders, including the degree to which the opportunity complements one of our existing franchises, generates substantial synergies and is accretive to earnings. Finally, we intend to divest any business
that cannot sustain a return above its cost of capital.

Financial Information about Our Business Segments

See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Also see below for selected financial information related to
our segments.

Agricultural Products

Financial Information (In Millions)



Agricultural Products:Revenue and Operating Margin2005-2009Agricultural Products:Capital Expenditures and Depreciation and Amortization 2005-2009

Overview

Our Agricultural Products segment, which represents approximately 37 percent of our 2009 consolidated revenues, develops, manufactures and sells a portfolio of crop protection, professional pest control
and lawn and garden products. Our innovation and growth efforts focus on developing environmentally compatible solutions that can effectively increase farmers’ yields and provide cost-effective alternatives to older chemistries to which
insects, weeds or disease may have developed resistance. Over the last several years, we restructured and redeployed our research and development resources to focus our innovation efforts towards accelerating the development of new products and
productivity-enhancing technologies to our customers. In addition to internal development, our growth efforts include product acquisitions, in-licensing of chemistries and technologies, and alliances which strengthen our market access or complement
our existing product portfolio.

We differentiate ourselves by our focused strategy in selected products, crops and markets
coupled with our low-cost manufacturing strategy. We are continually working to gain access to proprietary chemistries and technologies from third parties which are complementary to our existing products and market focus. We are







encouraged by our progress in licensing and partnering to create proprietary products, developing technically- advanced delivery systems and commercializing unique product premixes and
combinations. We are optimistic that these efforts will continue to result in sales and profit growth in the forseeable future.

Products and Markets



Agricultural Products:2009 Sales MixAgricultural Products:2009 Revenue by Region

Agricultural Products provides a wide range of proprietary, branded products—based
on both patented and off-patent technologies—for global crop protection, professional pest control, and lawn and garden markets. Product branding is a prevalent industry practice used to help maintain and grow market share by promoting end-user
recognition and product and supplier reputation. Agricultural Products enjoys relatively strong niche positions in crop and non-crop market segments in the Americas, Europe and other parts of the world and derived approximately 79 percent of its
revenue from outside North America in 2009.

Insecticides represent the largest product line in the Agricultural Products
segment, which include our pyrethroid and carbamate chemistries, in which we maintain leading market positions based on revenues. Our proprietary herbicides have grown significantly over the last several years due to organic growth, new product
launches and the in-licensing of new chemistries. Our herbicide portfolio primarily targets niche uses and controls a wide variety of difficult-to-control weeds. We are also evaluating opportunities to enhance our market position in fungicides, so
that we can broaden our portfolio across the three major pesticide categories, i.e. insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. In 2009, we successfully acquired the proprietary fungicide Benalaxyl which has an excellent fit in several of our focus
market segments.







The following table summarizes the principal product chemistries in Agricultural Products
and the principal uses of each chemistry:



CottonCornRiceCerealsFruits,VegetablesSoybeansSugarCaneTobaccoOilSeedRapeProf.PestControlHome &GardenInsecticidesPyrethroidspermethrinXXXXXXXXcypermethrinXXXXXXXXbifenthrinXXXXXXXXXzeta-cypermethrinXXXXXXXXXCarbamatescarbofuranXXXXXXXXcarbosulfanXXXXXXXXOthercadusafosXXHerbicidescarfentrazone-ethylXXXXXXXXclomazoneXXXXXXXsulfentrazoneXXXXXFungicidesbenalaxylXX

Over the last several years, we have entered into a number of agreements with third-party pesticide producers under which we work together to develop, market and/or distribute existing and new pesticide
chemistries in various markets. These proprietary chemistries and technologies are complementary to our existing products and market strategies. The chemistries include flonicamid, a unique insecticide for controlling sucking pests, cyazofamid, a
novel fungicide for crop and non-crop uses in the Americas, fluthiacet-methyl, a proprietary herbicide for controlling glyphosate-resistant weeds, and acetamiprid for pest control markets in North America. We also have numerous supply and access
agreements with third-party producers for other pesticide products including the commercialization of proprietary premixes and combinations.

We access key Western European markets through a Belgian-based pesticide distribution company, Belchim Crop Protection N.V., in which we have an ownership interest. We also have joint venture arrangements
with Nufarm Limited in three countries in Eastern Europe, which allows us to capitalize on growth in this part of Europe. In North America, we access the market through several major national and regional distributors. In the large agricultural
market of Brazil, we access the market in part through independent distributors and in part, we sell directly to large growers through our own skilled sales and marketing organization. Through these and other alliances, along with our own targeted
marketing efforts, access to novel technologies and our innovation initiatives, we expect to maintain and enhance our access in key agricultural and non-crop markets and develop new products that will help us continue to compete effectively.

We maintain competitive manufacturing cost positions through our strategy of sourcing raw materials, intermediates and
finished products from third parties in lower-cost manufacturing countries such as China, India and Mexico. We have been implementing this low-cost manufacturing strategy for more than ten years. This strategy has resulted in significant cost
savings and lower capital spending, and has reduced the fixed capital intensity of the business. Since its inception through 2009, we estimate that our low-cost manufacturing strategy has produced annual cost savings of approximately $90 million.







Growth

We plan to grow by obtaining new and approved uses for existing product lines and acquiring, accessing, developing, marketing, distributing and/or selling complementary chemistries and/or related
technologies in order to enhance and expand our product portfolio and our capabilities to effectively service our target markets and customers. Our growth will depend on our ability to deliver unique innovative solutions to our customers. Over the
next several years, growth is anticipated from our proprietary insecticides, herbicides and fungicides, as well as recently-accessed third party chemistries and/or technologies. For our insecticides, we launched a number of new products, expanded
labels and/or introduced unique formulations that deliver value-adding solutions to our customers. The continued spread of herbicide-resistant weeds and shifts in weed populations, coupled with several recently launched product formulations,
expanded labels, premixes and new chemistries provide growth opportunities for our herbicide product line. The successful development and commercialization of our productivity-enhancing technologies should also contribute to growth over the next
three to five years.

Industry Overview

The three principal categories of agricultural and non-crop chemicals are herbicides, representing approximately half of global industry revenue, insecticides, representing approximately a quarter of
global industry revenue, and fungicides, representing most of the remaining portion of global industry revenue.

Insecticides
are used to control a wide range of insects, including chewing pests (such as caterpillars) and sucking pests (such as aphids). Insecticides are applied as sprays, dusts or granules and are used on a wide variety of crops such as fruits, vegetables,
cotton, soybean, corn and cereals. There are several major classes of insecticide chemistries, including organophosphates, carbamates, pyrethroids and neonicotinoids.

Herbicides prevent or inhibit weed growth, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for manual or mechanical weeding. Herbicides can be selective (controlling only specific unwanted vegetation) or
non-selective (controlling all vegetation), and are also segmented by their time of application: pre-planting, pre-emergent and post-emergent.

Fungicides prevent or inhibit the spread of plant disease which can adversely impact crop yields and quality. Fungicides are used on a wide variety of crops such as fruits, vegetables, soybean, cereals
and rice.

The agrochemicals industry has undergone significant consolidation over the past ten years. Leading crop protection
companies, Syngenta AG, Bayer AG, Monsanto Company, BASF AG, The Dow Chemical Company and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont), currently represent approximately 75 percent of the industry’s global sales. Significant drivers for this
consolidation have been the growth and grower acceptance of biotechnology employed in row crops, and the escalation of research and development and marketing costs.

The next tier of agrochemical producers, including FMC, Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd., Sumitomo Chemical Company Limited, Nufarm Limited, Arysta LifeScience Corporation, United Phosphorous Limited and
Cheminova A/S, employ various differentiated strategies and compete by (1) unique technologies, (2) focusing on certain crops, markets and geographies, and/or (3) competitive pricing based on low-cost manufacturing positions. Some of
these producers are generic competitors with little or no investment in innovation. There is a growing trend among these producers to partner with one another to gain economies of scale and competitive market access more comparable to larger
competitors. Additionally, a number of these companies have grown rapidly through acquisitions of other companies and/or product divestitures from the leading crop protection companies.







Specialty Chemicals

Financial Information (In Millions)



Specialty Chemicals:Revenue and Operating Margin2005-2009Specialty Chemicals:Capital Expenditures and Depreciation andAmortization 2005-2009

Overview

Our Specialty Chemicals segment, which represents 27 percent of our 2009 consolidated revenues, is focused on high-performance food ingredients, pharmaceutical excipients and encapsulants, biomedical
technologies and lithium specialty products, all of which enjoy solid customer bases and consistent, growing demand. The significant majority of Specialty Chemicals sales are to customers in non-cyclical end markets. We believe that our future
growth in this segment will continue to be based on the value-added performance capabilities of these products and our research and development capabilities, as well as on the alliances and the close working relationships we have developed with key
global customers.

Products and Markets



Specialty Chemicals:2009 Sales MixSpecialty Chemicals:2009 Revenue by Region







BioPolymer

BioPolymer is organized around the food, pharmaceutical and biomedical device markets, and is a key supplier to many companies in these markets. Many of BioPolymer’s customers in the food and
pharmaceutical markets have come to rely on us for the majority of their supply requirements for these product lines. We believe that such reliance is based on our innovative solutions and operational quality.

BioPolymer is a supplier of microcrystalline cellulose (MCC), carrageenan and alginates—ingredients that have high value-added
applications in the production of food, pharmaceutical and other specialty consumer and industrial products. MCC, processed from specialty grades of both hardwood pulp and softwood pulp, provides binding and disintegrant properties for dry tablets
and capsules and has unique functionality that improves the texture and stability of many food products. Carrageenan and alginates, both processed from seaweed, are used in a wide variety of food, pharmaceutical, nutraceutical and biopharmaceutical
applications, which provides alginate and carrageenan-based encapsulant technologies for pharmaceutical and nutraceutical uses. In our Novamatrix business we are developing technology platforms within biomedical markets which develop and provide
ultrapure biopolymers and application know-how for biomedical devices. The following chart summarizes the markets for BioPolymer’s products and our chemistries in each market:



MicrocrystallinecelluloseCarrageenanAlginatesOtherFoodBeverageXXXDairyXXXConvenience foodsXXXXMeat and poultryXXPet food and otherXXXPharmaceuticalTablet binding and coatingXXXXAnti-refluxXLiquid suspensionXXOral careXCosmetic careXXXXOral dose formsXXXNovamatrixBiomedicalXX

Lithium

Lithium is
a vertically-integrated technology business, based on both inorganic and organic lithium chemistries. While lithium is sold into a variety of end-markets, we have focused our efforts on energy storage, specialty polymers and pharmaceuticals.

The electrochemical properties of lithium make it an ideal material for portable energy storage in high performance
applications, including heart pacemakers, cell phones, camcorders, personal computers and next-generation technologies that combine cellular and wireless capabilities into a single device. Lithium is also being developed as the enabling element in
advanced batteries for use in hybrid electric, plug-in hybrids and all-electric vehicles.

Organolithium products are sold to
fine chemical and pharmaceutical customers who use lithium’s unique chemical properties to synthesize high value-added products. Organolithiums are also highly valued in the specialty polymer markets as initiators in the production of synthetic
rubbers and elastomers.







The following chart summarizes the major markets for various lithium products:



PrimaryInorganicsSpecialtyInorganicsLithiumMetal/Ion BatteryMaterialsOrganometallicsIntermediatesFine ChemicalsPharmaceuticals,agricultural productsXXXXPolymersElastomers, syntheticrubbers, industrialcoatingsXXEnergy StorageNon-rechargeablebatteries, lithium ionbatteries (rechargeable)XXXOtherGlass & ceramics,construction, greases& lubricants, airtreatment,pool water treatmentXX

Industry Overview

Food Ingredients

Our BioPolymer business serves the texture, structure and physical stability (TSPS) food ingredients market. TSPS ingredients impart physical
properties to thicken and stabilize foods. There are many types of TSPS ingredients and a wide range of food groups served, including bakery, meats, dairy and convenience products. The industry is dispersed geographically, with the majority of our
sales in Europe, North America and Asia.

Trends driving market growth include increasing consumer interest in healthier
foods, greater convenience and growth in per capita consumption of processed foods in emerging markets. The trend toward health and convenience drives the need for more functional ingredients to impart desired food tastes and textures. We believe
carrageenan and MCC, which address this need, are growing faster than the overall TSPS market. The global customer base for TSPS is relatively fragmented and includes large and small food processors. Consolidation among these customers has been a
significant trend over the past several years. As a result, TSPS ingredient suppliers such as us have focused on establishing alliances with market leaders with the goal of reducing costs, leveraging technology and expanding product offerings with
key accounts.

Within the entire food ingredients market, there are a relatively large number of suppliers, due principally to
the broad spectrum of chemistries employed. Segment leadership, global position and investment in technology are key factors to sustaining profitability. In addition, larger suppliers may often provide a broader product line and a range of services
to food companies including functional systems or blends. The top suppliers of TSPS ingredients include FMC, Danisco A/S, DuPont, J.M. Huber Corporation, Kerry Group plc, Cargill Incorporated, DGF Stoess AG, and Tate & Lyle PLC.







Pharmaceutical Ingredients

Our BioPolymer business sells formulation ingredients to the pharmaceutical industry. Our raw materials function as binders, disintegrants,
suspending agents and control release compounds in the production of both solid and liquid pharmaceutical products.

Competitors tend to be grouped by chemistry. Our principal MCC competitors in pharmaceuticals include J. Rettenmaier & Sôhne GmbH, Ming Tai Chemical Co., Ltd., Asahi Kasei Corporation and Blanver Farmoquimica Ltda. While
pricing pressure from low cost producers is a common competitive dynamic, companies like us offset that pressure by providing the most reliable and broadest range of products and services. Our customers are pharmaceutical firms who depend upon
reliable therapeutic performance of their drug products.

We also supply alginates, MCC and carrageenan into oral care,
cosmetics and health care markets. Highly refined extracts from selected seaweeds provide a broad range of alginate functionality, including uses in antireflux disorders, dental impressions, control release of drugs and wound dressings. Special
grades of carrageenan extracts are used in liquid cough medicines, toothpaste and a variety of skin care products.

Lithium

Lithium is a highly versatile metal with diverse end-use markets including glass/ceramics, aluminum production,
pharmaceuticals, polymers and both rechargeable and disposable batteries. The markets for lithium chemicals are global with significant demand growth occurring outside the U.S. in Japan, China and South Korea. We market a wide variety of
lithium-based products ranging from upstream commodity lithium carbonate to highly specialized downstream products such as organolithium compounds and high value materials for batteries.

There are only three key producers of lithium: FMC, Rockwood Holdings, Inc., and Sociedad Química y Minera de Chile S.A., all of
which produce lithium carbonate. FMC has a stronger presence in downstream lithium specialties where Rockwood is the primary competitor.

Industrial Chemicals

Financial Information (In millions)



Industrial Chemicals:Revenue and Operating Margin2005-2009Industrial Chemicals:Capital Expenditures and Depreciation andAmortization 2005-2009







Overview

Our Industrial Chemicals segment, which represents 36 percent of our 2009 consolidated revenues, has low-cost positions in high volume inorganic chemicals including soda ash and hydrogen peroxide,
complemented by high value, niche positions in specialty alkali, phosphorus and peroxygen products.

Products and Markets



Industrial Chemicals:2009 Sales MixIndustrial Chemicals:2009 Revenue by Region Mix

Industrial Chemicals serves a diverse group of markets, from economically-sensitive
industrial sectors to technology-intensive specialty markets. We process and sell refined inorganic products that are sought by customers for their critical reactivity or specific functionality in markets such as glass, detergents and pulp and
paper. In addition, we produce, purify and market higher value downstream derivatives into specialized and customer-specific applications. These applications include electronics, biocides and animal nutrition.

Alkali

Our
alkali chemical division produces natural soda ash. Soda ash is used by manufacturers in glass, chemical processing and detergent industries. To lesser degrees, we also produce sodium bicarbonate, caustic soda and sodium sesquicarbonate. The
majority of our alkali sales are manufactured by and sold through FMC Wyoming Corporation, which we manage as an integral part of our alkali business and in which we own shares representing an 87.5 percent economic interest, with the remaining
shares held by two Japanese companies.

We mine and produce natural soda ash using proprietary, low-cost mining technologies,
such as longwall and solution mining, which, we believe, give us the lowest cost position. Our two production sites in Green River, Wyoming have the name plate capacity to produce approximately 4.85 million tons of soda ash annually, with
approximately 1.3 million tons of this capacity currently mothballed at December 31, 2009. For the past several years, the U.S. soda ash industry was essentially sold out. As a result of this condition, during 2005 and 2006 we restarted
500,000 tons of previously mothballed capacity to meet the increase in demand driven by the growth in export markets. In February, 2008 we announced the recommissioning of the remaining mothballed capacity in Green River, Wyoming. Approximately
100,000 tons of this capacity was commissioned prior to the end of 2008. We expected the remaining capacity, approximately 700,000 tons per year, to be fully online by 2012/2013 depending on export demand growth. However, with the economic downturn
in 2009 resulting in a drop in soda ash demand, we again mothballed the Granger facility and consolidated all of our soda ash production at the Westvaco facility. We will restart the Granger operation as soda ash export market conditions warrant its
re-start.

Peroxygens

We produce hydrogen peroxide at production facilities in the United States and Canada, and, as described below, through our wholly-owned Foret subsidiary, in Spain and the Netherlands. We also participate
in a joint







venture company in Thailand. We sell hydrogen peroxide into the pulp and paper industry, and increasingly to the chemical processing, environmental, electronics and food industries. We are a
leading North American producer of hydrogen peroxide due in part to our broad product line, geographically-advantaged plant locations, state-of-the-art processing technology and superior customer service. Hydrogen peroxide represents approximately
65 percent of our peroxygens sales.

Our specialty peroxygens business supplies persulfate products primarily to polymer,
printed circuit board, hair care and soil remediation markets. Peracetic acid is predominantly supplied to the food industry for biocidal applications. Typically, we compete as a specialty player where we believe that we are differentiated by our
strong technical expertise, unique process technology, intellectual property and geographic location.

Foret

Our European subsidiary, FMC Foret, S.A. (“Foret”), headquartered near Barcelona, Spain, is a leading provider
of chemical products to the detergent, paper, textile, mining, and chemical industries. Foret operates six manufacturing facilities across Europe, with market positions in phosphates, hydrogen peroxide, percarbonates, zeolites and silicates.
Foret’s sales efforts are focused in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and in South America mainly via Tripoliven, our Venezuelan joint-venture, in which Foret holds a minority participation.

Industry Overview

We primarily participate in three product areas: soda ash, peroxygens and phosphorus chemicals. These products are generally inorganic and are generally commodities that, in many cases, have few cost-effective substitutes. Growth is
typically a function of industrial production in developed economies and a function of the rate of industrialization in developing economies in the export markets. Pricing tends to reflect the supply and demand balance as producers add or reduce
capacity in response to demand changes.

Soda Ash

Soda ash is a highly alkaline inorganic chemical essential in the production of glass and widely used in the production of chemicals, soaps
and detergents, and many other products. Natural soda ash is typically produced from trona, a natural form of sodium sesquicarbonate, through mining and chemical processing. Soda ash may also be produced synthetically, but this process requires a
significant amount of energy and produces large quantities of waste by-products, making it much less cost-effective than natural soda ash production.

Because of the processing cost advantages of trona and the large natural reserves of trona in the U.S., particularly in Green River, Wyoming, all U.S. soda ash is naturally produced. By contrast, due to a
lack of trona, the majority of the soda ash that is manufactured in the rest of the world is produced synthetically. Other U.S. producers are OCI Chemical Corporation, Solvay S.A., The General Chemical Group Inc., in which a majority stake is owned
by Tata Chemicals Limited, and Nirma Limited.

Approximately 50 percent of U.S. soda ash production served export markets in
2009, with approximately 24 percent of U.S. soda ash production exported through the American Natural Soda Ash Corporation (“ANSAC”). ANSAC is the foreign sales association of Wyoming U.S. soda ash producers established in 1983 under the
Webb-Pomerene Act and subsequent legislation. Since its creation, ANSAC has been successful in coordinating soda ash exports, taking advantage of the inherent cost benefits of U.S. produced natural soda ash and leveraging its large scale of
operations to the benefit of its member companies. Consequently, U.S. exports of soda ash have increased over threefold in the last 25 years.

Peroxygens

Hydrogen peroxide is typically sold for use as a bleach or
oxidizer. As such, it often competes with other chemicals capable of performing similar functions. Some of our specialty peroxygen derivatives (e.g., persulfates







and percarbonates) also function as bleaching or oxidizing agents. Environmental regulations, regional cost differences primarily due to transportation costs, and technical differences in product
performance factor into the decision to use hydrogen peroxide or one of its derivatives rather than another product. Since these considerations vary by region, the consumption patterns vary in different parts of the world. Hydrogen peroxide is sold
in aqueous solutions, usually 70 percent, 50 percent or 35 percent by weight.

The North American pulp and paper industry
represents approximately 65 percent of North American demand for hydrogen peroxide. In this market, hydrogen peroxide is used as an environmentally friendly bleaching agent to brighten chemical, mechanical, and recycled pulps, as well as treat a
wide range of mill pollutants in the waste stream. The North American paper market is mature and new investment in pulp and paper capacity is largely focused in Asia and South America. The other North American hydrogen peroxide producers are EKA, a
wholly owned subsidiary of Akzo Nobel N.V, Arkema Inc., Evonik Industries AG, Kemira Ovj, and Solvay S.A.

Phosphorous
Chemicals

We participate in this business in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and South America through Foret. Major
competitors include Societe Chimique Alkimia S.A., Thermphos International BV, Prayon Rupel, S.A. and various Chinese producers. Phosphorous chemicals are used in many industrial applications in a wide array of chemical compounds.

Overall growth in demand for phosphorous chemicals tends to correlate with Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”). Purified phosphoric
acid (PPA) and phosphate salts (e.g., sodium phosphates and calcium phosphates) are sold into many markets including detergents, cleaning compounds and animal feed.

The basic input material for making phosphates is now produced using two processes. Most industrial applications use the cost-effective process that involves making PPA by the purification of
fertilizer-grade phosphoric acid. Thermal phosphoric acid, long the industry standard, is produced from elemental phosphorus but is more costly due to energy and environmental compliance costs, and is now used in limited applications. Elemental
phosphorus is still produced by Thermphos in the Netherlands and in several other countries, including China.

Over the next
few years, demand growth for phosphorous chemicals is generally expected to grow with GDP with relatively higher growth in newly industrializing regions.

Source and Availability of Raw Materials

Our raw material requirements
vary by business segment and include mineral-related natural resources (trona ore and lithium brines), processed chemicals, seaweed, specialty wood pulps and energy sources such as gas, coal, oil and electricity. Raw materials represented
approximately 29 percent of our 2009 costs of sales and services, and no one raw material represented more than nine percent of our total raw material purchases.

Ores used in Industrial Chemicals’ manufacturing processes are extracted by us from mines (e.g. trona in North America) or are purchased from others (e.g. phosphorous rock). Raw materials used by
Specialty Chemicals include lithium brines, various types of seaweed that are sourced on a global basis and specialty pulps which are purchased from selected global producers. Raw materials used by Agricultural Products, primarily processed
chemicals, are obtained from a variety of suppliers worldwide.







Patents

We own a number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and licenses that are cumulatively important to our business. We do not believe that the loss of any one or group of related patents, trademarks or
licenses would have a material adverse effect on the overall business of FMC. The duration of our patents depends on their respective jurisdictions. Their expiration dates range through 2029.

Seasonality

The seasonal
nature of the crop protection market and the geographic spread of the Agricultural Products business can result in significant variations in quarterly earnings. Agricultural products sold into the northern hemisphere (North America, Europe and parts
of Asia) serve seasonal agricultural markets from March through September, generally resulting in earnings in the first, second and third quarters. Markets in the southern hemisphere (Latin America and parts of the Asia Pacific region, including
Australia) are served from July through February, generally resulting in earnings in the third, fourth and first quarters. The remainder of our businesses are generally not subject to significant seasonal fluctuations.

Competition

We have a
number one or number two market position in many of our product lines, based on revenue, either globally or in North America, largely as a result of our product offerings, proprietary technologies and our position as a low-cost producer. The
following product lines accounted for the majority of our 2009 consolidated revenue. Market positions are based on the most recently available revenue data.



Agricultural ProductsSpecialty ChemicalsIndustrial ChemicalsProduct LineMarket PositionProduct LineMarket PositionProduct LineMarket PositionPyrethroids#2 in North AmericaMicrocrystalline cellulose#1 globallySoda ash#1 in North AmericaCarbofuran#1 globallyCarrageenan#1 globallyPersulfates#1 in North AmericaAlginates#1 globallyLithium specialties#2 globally

We encounter substantial competition in each of our three business segments. This competition is
expected to continue in both the United States and markets outside of the United States. We market our products through our own sales organization and through alliance partners, independent distributors and sales representatives. The number of our
principal competitors varies from segment to segment. In general, we compete by operating in a cost-efficient manner and by leveraging our industry experience to provide advanced technology, high product quality and reliability, and quality customer
and technical service.

Our Agricultural Products segment competes primarily in the global chemical crop protection market for
insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. The industry is characterized by a relatively small number of large competitors and a large number of smaller, often regional competitors. Industry products include crop protection chemicals and, for certain
major competitors, genetically engineered (crop biotechnology) products. Competition from generic agrochemical producers has increased as a significant number of product patents held industry-wide have expired in the last decade. In general, we
compete as an innovator by focusing on product development, including novel formulations, proprietary mixes, and advanced delivery systems and by acquiring or licensing (mostly) proprietary chemistries or technologies that complement our product and
geographic focus. We also differentiate ourselves by our global cost-competitiveness via our manufacturing strategies, establishing effective product stewardship programs and developing strategic alliances that strengthen market access in key
countries and regions.

With significant positions in markets that include alginate, carrageenan, microcrystalline cellulose
and lithium-based products, our Specialty Chemicals segment competes on the basis of product differentiation, market applications expertise, customer service and price. BioPolymer competes with both direct suppliers of







cellulose and seaweed extract as well as suppliers of other hydrocolloids, which may provide similar functionality in specific applications. In microcrystalline cellulose, competitors are
typically smaller than us, while in seaweed extracts (carrageenan and alginates), we compete with other broad-based chemical companies. We and each of our two most significant competitors in lithium extract the element from naturally occurring
lithium-rich brines located in the Andes Mountains of Argentina and Chile which are believed to be the world’s most significant and lowest cost sources of lithium.

Research and Development Expense

We perform research and development in all of our segments with the majority of our efforts focused in the Agricultural
Products segment. The development efforts in the Agricultural Products segment focus on developing environmentally sound solutions and new product formulations that cost-effectively increase farmers’ yields and provide alternatives to existing
and new chemistries. Our research and development expenses in the last three years are set forth below:



Year EndedDecember 31,200920082007(in Millions)Agricultural Products$73.1$70.6$69.7Specialty Chemicals12.914.917.0Industrial Chemicals6.88.37.9Total$92.8$93.8$94.6

Environmental Laws and Regulations

A discussion of environmental related factors can be found in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 10 “Environmental” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.

Employees

We employ approximately 4,800 people, with approximately 2,300
people in our domestic operations and 2,500 people in our foreign operations. Approximately 33 percent of our U.S.-based employees and 35 percent of our foreign-based employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. We have
successfully concluded virtually all of our recent contract negotiations without a work stoppage. In those rare instances where







a work stoppage has occurred, there has been no material effect on consolidated sales and earnings. We cannot predict, however, the outcome of future contract negotiations. In 2010, we have five
collective-bargaining agreements expiring. These contracts affect approximately 28 percent of U.S.-based employees and 28 percent of foreign-based employees.

Securities and Exchange Commission Filings

Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) filings are available free of charge on our website, www.fmc.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are posted as soon as practicable after
we furnish such materials to the SEC.

In accordance with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules, on May 18, 2009, the
Company filed our certification by our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) that, as of the date of the certification, he was unaware of any violation by FMC of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards. We also file with each Form 10-Q and
our Form 10-K certifications by the CEO and Chief Financial Officer under sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



