ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

We are a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, consumer and industrial markets globally with innovative solutions, applications and market-leading products. We operate in three distinct business segments: FMC Agricultural Solutions, FMC Health and Nutrition and FMC Minerals. Our FMC Agricultural Solutions segment develops, markets and sells all three major classes of crop protection chemicals – insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. These products are used in agriculture to enhance crop yield and quality by controlling a broad spectrum of insects, weeds and disease, as well as in non-agricultural markets for pest control. The FMC Health and Nutrition segment focuses on food, pharmaceutical ingredients, nutraceuticals, personal care and similar markets. Our food ingredients are used to enhance texture, color, structure and physical stability. The pharmaceutical additives are used for binding, encapsulation and disintegrant applications. Some of our products are increasingly being used as an active ingredients in nutraceutical and pharmaceutical markets. Our FMC Minerals segment manufactures a wide range of inorganic materials, including soda ash and lithium. Soda ash is utilized in markets such as glass and detergents and lithium is utilized in energy storage, specialty polymers and pharmaceutical synthesis.



Discontinued Operations Presentation - FMC Alkali Chemicals

In September 2014, we announced our decision to pursue the sale of our FMC Alkali Chemicals division (“ACD”). On February 3, 2015, we signed a definitive agreement to sell ACD to a wholly owned subsidiary of Tronox Limited and we expect the sale to be completed in early 2015 subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions.

We have concluded, as a result of the signing of the definitive agreement, that ACD has met the criteria to be an asset held for sale and therefore will be presented as a discontinued operation in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in future reporting periods. In accordance with GAAP, the reclassification of ACD from a continuing operation to a discontinued operation occurs in the period for which the discontinued operation criteria has been met. Therefore as of December 31, 2014, ACD is accounted for as a continuing operation of FMC and throughout this Form 10-K ACD is included in the results of continuing operations.

Beginning with the first quarter 2015 reporting on Form 10-Q, the results of operations of ACD will be reclassified to reflect the business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented and the assets and liabilities of the business will be reclassified as held for sale. Our FMC Minerals segment, which previously included our FMC Alkali Chemicals and FMC Lithium divisions, will be renamed FMC Lithium.

As of the date of this Form 10-K filing (February 27, 2015) since we have concluded that ACD is classified as a discontinued operation, the following discussion within Item 1 pertains to the continuing businesses of FMC excluding ACD.

All other sections within this Form 10-K, unless explicitly stated, include ACD as a continuing operation.



Cheminova A/S

On September 8, 2014, we entered into a definitive Share Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Auriga Industries A/S, a DenmarkAktieselskab("Aurgia") and Cheminova A/S, a DenmarkAktieselskab,a wholly owned subsidiary of Auriga ("Cheminova"). Pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to acquire all of the outstanding equity of Cheminova from Auriga for an aggregate purchase price of8.5 billionDanish Krone or approximately$1.4 billion, excluding net debt to be assumed of approximately$0.3 billion(the “Acquisition”) as of December 31, 2014. We expect to complete the Acquisition in early 2015.











FMC Strategy

Over the last five years, FMC has undergone a portfolio transformation. During the first part of this year, we expect to close on two significant transactions - the divestiture of our Alkali Chemicals division and the acquisition of Cheminova - that will shape FMC into a stronger, focused company serving agriculture, health and nutrition end markets.

We expect to complete the divestiture of our Alkali Chemicals division in early 2015. The proceeds from the sale will be used to fund the acquisition of Cheminova and allow us to maintain a strong balance sheet and financial flexibility. Subsequently, our FMC Lithium division will become a standalone reporting segment. We intend to make investments that will allow FMC Lithium to take advantage of strong underlying growth potential and leading positions in a well-structured industry.

The integration of Cheminova into FMC Agricultural Solutions is an integral part of FMC’s strategy to become a more focused and global agriculture, health and nutrition company with strong competitive positions in fast-growing markets. Our combined company will have broader market access in Europe, Latin America and key Asia-Pacific markets such as India and Australia. Our complementary technologies will lead to improved formulation capabilities and a broader innovation pipeline, resulting in new and differentiated products. The integration strengthens our leadership position in crop protection chemistry and expands our position in a variety of crop segments. The combined company will benefit from deeper regulatory expertise and access to local markets. Following the acquisition, FMC will be positioned among the largest agrochemical companies in world. We will have the scale to operate with greater resources and global reach, but will retain the service, reliability and entrepreneurial spirit of a smaller company.

In Health and Nutrition, we have a portfolio of naturally-derived, functional ingredients that serve health, nutraceutical and nutrition end markets. Our focus is on providing innovative solutions  to our customers by leveraging our application know-how in the nutrition, nutraceutical and pharmaceutical markets as well as differentiating the manufacture and delivery of our market leading products through best in class Quality, Service, Reliability (QSR). With QSR at the forefront, we have recently undertaken an effort to optimize our organizational and manufacturing footprints to improve our cost competitiveness. We will continue to implement Manufacturing Excellence programs, pursue process technology improvements and develop innovative application solutions to drive the highest value for our customers.

We will maintain our commitment to enterprise sustainability, including responsible stewardship. As we grow, we will do so in a responsible way. Safety is and will remain of utmost importance. Meeting and exceeding our customers’ expectations will continue to be a primary focus. We will, as always, conduct our business in an ethical manner.



















Financial Information About Our Business Segments

(Financial Information (in Millions))

See Note 19 "Segment Information" to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Also see below for selected financial information related to our segments.

The following table shows the principal products produced by our three business segments and their raw materials and uses:



SegmentProductRaw MaterialsUsesFMC Agricultural SolutionsInsecticidesSynthetic chemical intermediatesProtection of crops, including cotton, sugarcane, rice, corn, soybeans, cereals, fruits and vegetables from insects and for non-agricultural applications including pest control for home, garden and other specialty marketsHerbicidesSynthetic chemical intermediatesProtection of crops, including cotton, sugarcane, rice, corn, soybeans, cereals, fruits and vegetables from weed growth and for non-agricultural applications including turf and roadsidesFungicidesSynthetic and biological chemical intermediatesProtection of crops, including fruits and vegetables from fungal diseaseFMC Health and NutritionMicrocrystalline CelluloseSpecialty pulpDrug dry tablet binder and disintegrant, food ingredientCarrageenanRefined seaweedFood ingredient for thickening and stabilizing, pharmaceutical and nutraceutical encapsulatesAlginatesRefined seaweedFood ingredient, pharmaceutical excipient, healthcare and industrial usesNatural ColorantsPlant sources, select insect speciesFood, pharmaceutical and cosmeticsPectinCitrus fruit peelsFood ingredients for texture and stabilizingOmega-3 EPA/DHAFish oilsNutraceutical and pharmaceutical uses.FMC Minerals (To be renamed "FMC Lithium")LithiumExtracted lithiumBatteries, polymers, pharmaceuticals, greases and lubricants, glass and ceramics and other industrial usesSoda Ash(1)Mined trona oreGlass, chemicals, detergents

______________

(1)Product of FMC Alkali Chemicals division, expected to be sold in early 2015.



With a worldwide manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, we are able to respond rapidly to global customer needs, offset downward economic trends in one region with positive trends in another and match local revenues to local costs to mitigate the impact of currency volatility. The charts below detail our sales and long-lived assets by major geographic region.















FMC Agricultural Solutions





Overview

Our FMC Agricultural Solutions segment, which represents approximately54 percentof our2014consolidated revenues, operates in the agrochemicals industry. This segment develops, manufactures and sells a portfolio of crop protection, professional pest control and lawn and garden products.



Products and Markets







FMC Agricultural Solutions' portfolio is comprised of three major pesticide categories: insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. The majority our product line consists of insecticides and herbicides, and we have a small but fast-growing portfolio of fungicides mainly used in high value crop segments. Our insecticides are used to control a wide spectrum of pests, while our herbicide portfolio primarily targets a large variety of difficult-to-control weeds.

In the Latin American region, which includes the large agricultural market of Brazil, we sell directly to large growers through our own sales and marketing organization, and we access the market through independent distributors. In North America, we access the market through several major national and regional distributors and have our own sales and marketing organization in Canada. We currently access key European markets utilizing a distributor model and through joint venture arrangements. Following the Cheminova acquisition, we will use a combination of our existing model alongside Cheminova’s direct market access positions. We access key Asian markets either through local independent distributors or our own sales and marketing organizations. Through these and other alliances, along with our own targeted marketing efforts, access to novel technologies and our innovation initiatives, we expect to maintain and enhance our access in key agricultural and non-crop markets and develop new products that will help us continue to compete effectively.









Industry Overview

The three principal categories of agricultural and non-crop chemicals are: herbicides, insecticides and fungicides, representing approximately 40 percent, 20 percent and 20 percent of global industry revenue, respectively.

The agrochemicals industry is relatively consolidated. Leading crop protection companies, Syngenta AG, Bayer AG, Monsanto Company, BASF AG, The Dow Chemical Company and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont), currently represent approximately 65 percent of the industry’s global sales. The next tier of agrochemical producers include FMC, ADAMA Agricultural Solutions, Ltd., Sumitomo Chemical Company Ltd., Nufarm Ltd., Arysta LifeScience Corp., United Phosphorous Ltd. and Cheminova AS. FMC employs various differentiated strategies and competes with unique technologies focusing on certain crops, markets and geographies, as well as supported by a low-cost manufacturing model.



Growth

The acquisition of Cheminova positions FMC among leading agrochemical producers in the world.  Our complementary technologies will lead to improved formulation capabilities and a broader innovation pipeline, resulting in new and differentiated products. We will take advantage of enhanced market access positions and an expanded portfolio to deliver near-term growth.

We will continue to grow by obtaining new and approved uses for existing product lines and acquiring, accessing, developing, marketing, distributing and/or selling complementary chemistries and related technologies in order to strengthen our product portfolio and our capabilities to effectively service our target markets and customers.

Our growth efforts focus on developing environmentally compatible and sustainable solutions that can effectively increase farmers’ yields and provide cost-effective alternatives to chemistries which may be prone to resistance. We are committed to providing unique, differentiated products to our customers by acquiring and further developing technologies as well as investing in innovation to extend product life cycles. Our external growth efforts include product acquisitions, in-licensing of chemistries and technologies and alliances that bolster our market access, complement our existing product portfolio or provide entry into adjacent spaces. We have entered into a range of development and distribution agreements with other companies that provide us access to new technologies and products which we can subsequently commercialize.

FMC Health and Nutrition





Overview

Our FMC Health and Nutrition segment, which represents21 percentof our2014consolidated revenues, is focused on high-performance food ingredients, pharmaceutical excipients and omega-3 oils. The majority of FMC Health and Nutrition sales are to customers in non-cyclical end markets. We believe our future growth in this segment will continue to be based on the value-added performance capabilities of these products and our research and development capabilities, as well as on the alliances and close working relationships we have developed with key global customers.











Products and Markets







Our product offerings into the food markets principally provide texture, structure and physical stability ("TSPS") solutions to thicken and stabilize certain food products. Our formulation ingredients serving the pharmaceutical industry function as binders, disintegrants, suspending agents, and control-release compounds for the production of both solid and liquid pharmaceutical products. The majority of our nutraceutical product offerings are high purity omega-3.

FMC Health and Nutrition is a supplier of microcrystalline cellulose ("MCC"), carrageenan, alginates, natural colorants, pectin and omega-3, all naturally derived ingredients that have high value-added applications in the production of food, pharmaceutical, nutraceutical and other specialty consumer products. MCC, processed from specialty grades of renewable hardwood and softwood pulp, provides binding and disintegrant properties for dry tablets and capsules and has unique functionality that improves the texture and stability of many food products. Carrageenan and alginates, both processed from natural seaweed, are used in a wide variety of food, pharmaceutical and oral care applications. Natural colorants are utilized in specialty products used in the food, beverage, personal care, nutrition and pharmaceutical markets. Pectin, derived from natural citrus fruit peels, is utilized as a hydrocolloid texturant and stabilizer. Omega-3 is sourced from fish oils and utilized in other pharmaceutical and nutraceutical applications.

Industry Overview

Food Ingredients

The industry is dispersed geographically, with the majority of our sales in Europe, North America and Asia. The food ingredients market is comprised of a large number of suppliers due to the broad spectrum of chemistries employed. Segment leadership, global position and investment in technology are key factors to sustaining profitability. The top suppliers of TSPS ingredients include FMC, DuPont, J.M. Huber Corporation, Kerry Group plc and Cargill Incorporated.

Pharmaceutical & Nutraceutical Ingredients

Competitors tend to be grouped by chemistry. Our principal MCC competitors include J. Rettenmaier & Sôhne GmbH, Ming Tai Chemical Co., Ltd., Asahi Kasei Corporation and Blanver Farmoquimica Ltda. While pricing pressure from low-cost producers is a common competitive dynamic, companies look to offset that pressure by providing the most reliable and broadest range of products and services. Our customers are pharmaceutical firms who depend upon reliable therapeutic performance of their drug products.









FMC Minerals(to be renamedFMC Lithium)





Overview

Our FMC Minerals segment, which in 2014 included the results of our FMC Alkali Chemicals division, represents26 percentof our2014consolidated revenues, and during FY2014 participated in the alkali chemicals and lithium products markets.

Products and Markets



Effective February 2015, our FMC Minerals segment has been renamed FMC Lithium as the FMC Alkali Chemicals division has been classified as a discontinued operation, as FMC Alkali Chemicals is under contract to be sold, and the sale is expected to be completed in early 2015. The following discussion pertains only to the FMC Lithium business.

Lithium

Lithium is a business based on both inorganic and organic lithium chemistries. While lithium is sold into a variety of end markets, we have focused our strategy on the energy storage, polymer and pharmaceutical markets and other industrial markets.

The electrochemical properties of lithium make it an ideal material for portable energy storage in high performance applications, including smart phones, tablets, laptop computers, military devices and aerospace and other next-generation energy storage technologies. Lithium is a critical element in advanced batteries for use in hybrid electric, plug-in hybrids and all-electric vehicles.

Organolithium products are highly valued in the polymer market as initiators in the production of synthetic rubbers and elastomers. Organolithiums are also sold to fine chemical and pharmaceutical customers who use lithium's unique chemical properties to synthesize high value-added products.









Industry Overview

FMC Lithium serves a diverse group of markets, from economically sensitive industrial sectors to technology-intensive specialty markets. Our product offerings are primarily inorganic and generally have few cost-effective substitutes. A major growth driver for lithium in the future will be the rate of adoption of electric and hybrid electric batteries in automobiles.

The markets for lithium chemicals are global with significant growth occurring outside the U.S. in Japan, China and South Korea, driven by the development and manufacture of lithium ion batteries. There are three key producers of lithium compounds: FMC,  Albemarle Corporation, previously Rockwood Holdings, Inc. and Sociedad Química y Minera de Chile S.A. Spodumene ore is also converted to lithium compounds by a large number of Chinese producers. We expect a few new producers may add primary inorganics capacity to the global lithium supply in the future. FMC and Albemarle Corporation are the primary producers of lithium specialties.

Source and Availability of Raw Materials

Our raw material requirements vary by business segment and primarily include processed chemicals, seaweed, specialty wood pulps, mineral-related natural resources (lithium brines) and energy sources such as gas, coal, oil and electricity. During 2014 we encountered no significant difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies of our raw materials.

Raw materials used by FMC Agricultural Solutions, primarily processed chemicals, are obtained from a variety of suppliers worldwide. Raw materials used by FMC Health and Nutrition include various types of seaweed,  specialty pulps,  natural colorant raw materials and fish oils that are all sourced on a global basis and purchased from selected global producers/suppliers. We extract ores used in FMC Lithium’s manufacturing processes from lithium brines in Argentina.

Patents

We own a number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and licenses that are cumulatively important to our business. We do not believe that the loss of any individual or combination of related patents, trademarks or licenses would have a material adverse effect on the overall business of FMC. The duration of our patents depends on their respective jurisdictions.

Seasonality

The seasonal nature of the crop protection market and the geographic spread of the FMC Agricultural Solutions business can result in significant variations in quarterly earnings among geographic locations. FMC Agricultural Solutions' products sold into the northern hemisphere (North America, Europe and parts of Asia) serve seasonal agricultural markets from March through September, generally resulting in earnings in the first, second and third quarters. Markets in the southern hemisphere (Latin America and parts of the Asia Pacific region, including Australia) are served from July through February, generally resulting in earnings in the third, fourth and first quarters. The remainder of our business is generally not subject to significant seasonal fluctuations.

Competition

We encounter substantial competition in each of our three business segments. We market our products through our own sales organization and through alliance partners, independent distributors and sales representatives. The number of our principal competitors varies from segment to segment. In general, we compete by providing advanced technology, high product quality and reliability, and quality customer and technical service, and by operating in a cost-efficient manner.

Our FMC Agricultural Solutions segment competes primarily in the global chemical crop protection market for insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. Industry products include crop protection chemicals and, for certain major competitors, genetically engineered (crop biotechnology) products. Competition from generic agrochemical producers is significant as a number of key product patents held industry-wide have expired in the last decade. In general, we compete as an innovator by focusing on product development, including novel formulations, proprietary mixes, and advanced delivery systems and by acquiring or licensing (mostly) proprietary chemistries or technologies that complement our product and geographic focus. We also differentiate ourselves by our global cost-competitiveness via our manufacturing strategies, establishing effective product stewardship programs and developing strategic alliances that strengthen market access in key countries and regions.

Our FMC Health and Nutrition segment has significant positions in markets that include alginate, carrageenan, and microcrystalline cellulose. We compete with both direct suppliers of cellulose and seaweed extract as well as suppliers of other hydrocolloids, which may provide similar functionality in specific applications. In microcrystalline cellulose, competitors are typically smaller than we are, while in seaweed extracts (carrageenan and alginates) and omega-3 fish oils, we compete with other broad-based chemical companies.









The to-be-renamed FMC Lithium segment sells lithium-based products worldwide. We and our two most significant competitors in lithium extract the element from naturally occurring lithium-rich brines located in the Andes Mountains of Argentina and Chile, which are believed to be the world’s most significant and lowest cost sources of lithium.

Research and Development Expense

We perform research and development in all of our segments with the majority of our efforts focused in the FMC Agricultural Solutions segment. The development efforts in the FMC Agricultural Solutions segment focus on developing environmentally sound solutions and new product formulations that cost-effectively increase farmers’ yields and provide alternatives to existing and new chemistries. Our research and development expenses in the last three years are set forth below:

Year Ended December 31,(in Millions)201420132012FMC Agricultural Solutions$111.8$100.5$95.4FMC Health and Nutrition10.010.59.9FMC Minerals6.56.76.7Total$128.3$117.7$112.0

Environmental Laws and Regulations

A discussion of environmental related factors can be found in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 10 “Environmental Obligations” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.

Employees

We employ approximately 6,000 people (including approximately 1,000 employees who currently work in our FMC Alkali Chemicals division), with about 2,500 people in our domestic operations and 3,500 people in our foreign operations.

Approximately 10 percent of our U.S.-based (excluding our FMC Alkali Chemicals division)  and 35 percent of our foreign-based employees, respectively, are represented by collective bargaining agreements. We have successfully concluded most of our recent contract negotiations without any material work stoppages. In those rare instances where a work stoppage has occurred, there has been no material effect on consolidated sales and earnings. We cannot predict, however, the outcome of future contract negotiations. In 2015, two foreign collective-bargaining agreements will expire. These contracts affect about 20 percent of our foreign-based employees.

Securities and Exchange Commission Filings

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings are available free of charge on our website, www.fmc.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are posted as soon as practicable after we furnish such materials to the SEC.

In accordance with New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules, on May 22, 2014, we filed a certification signed by our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) that, as of the date of the certification, he was unaware of any violation by FMC of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards. We also file with each Form 10-Q and our Form 10-K certifications by the CEO and Chief Financial Officer under sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.







