ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

We are a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, consumer and industrial markets globally with innovative solutions, applications and market-leading products. We operate in three distinct business segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals. Our Agricultural Products segment develops, markets and sells all three major classes of crop protection chemicals – insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides – with particular strength in insecticides and herbicides. These products are used in agriculture to enhance crop yield and quality by controlling a broad spectrum of insects, weeds and disease, as well as pest control in non-agricultural markets. Specialty Chemicals consists of our BioPolymer and lithium businesses. This segment focuses on food ingredients that are used to enhance texture, color, structure and physical stability; pharmaceutical additives for binding, encapsulation and disintegrant applications; ultrapure biopolymers for medical devices; and lithium for energy storage, specialty polymers and pharmaceutical synthesis. Our Industrial Chemicals segment manufactures a range of inorganic materials, including soda ash, hydrogen peroxide, specialty peroxygens, zeolites and silicates.

The following table shows the principal products produced by our three business segments and their raw materials and uses:







SegmentProductRaw MaterialsUses

Agricultural ProductsInsecticidesSynthetic chemical intermediatesProtection of crops, including cotton, sugarcane, rice, corn, soybeans, cereals, fruits and vegetables from insects and for non-agricultural applications including pest control for home, garden and other specialty markets

HerbicidesSynthetic chemical intermediatesProtection of crops, including cotton, sugarcane, rice, corn, soybeans, cereals, fruits and vegetables from weed growth and for non-agricultural applications including turf and roadsides

FungicidesSynthetic chemical intermediatesProtection of crops, including fruits and vegetables from fungal disease



Specialty ChemicalsMicrocrystalline CelluloseSpecialty pulpDrug dry tablet binder and disintegrant, food ingredient

CarrageenanRefined seaweedFood ingredient for thickening and stabilizing, encapsulants for pharmaceutical and nutraceutical

AlginatesRefined seaweedFood ingredient, pharmaceutical excipient, healthcare and industrial uses

Natural ColorantsPlant sources, select insect speciesFood, pharmaceutical and cosmetics

LithiumMined lithiumBatteries, polymers, pharmaceuticals, greases and lubricants, air conditioning and other industrial uses



Industrial Chemicals (1)Soda AshMined trona oreGlass, chemicals, detergents

PeroxygensHydrogen, caustic soda, sulfuric acid, acetic acidPulp & paper, chemical processing, detergents, antimicrobial disinfectants, environmental applications, electronics, and polymers

Zeolites & SilicatesCaustic Soda, Soda AshDetergents, car tires, pulp & paper

____________________

(1)Through December 31, 2010, our Industrial Chemicals principal products included phosphorous chemicals. On this date, we exited the phosphate business via the shutdown of our Huelva facility in Spain.











We have operations in many areas around the world. With a worldwide manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, we are able to respond rapidly to global customer needs, offset downward economic trends in one region with positive trends in another and better match revenues to local costs to mitigate the impact of currency volatility. The charts below detail our sales and long-lived assets by major geographic region.



Revenues by Region – 2011Long-lived Assets by Region – 2011Revenue:$3,377.9 millionLong-lived Assets:$1,627.2 million



Our Strategy

In 2010, we invested significant resources and managerial time in the development of a new strategic plan for the Company. This corporate strategy, which we refer to as Vision 2015, is focused on driving sales and earnings growth while sustaining a return on invested capital well above our cost of capital. This strategy's objective is to achieve a total shareholder return in the top quartile of a broad group of industry peers. Vision 2015 has five key elements:

Growing Leadership Positions

Increasing our reach. We intend to bias our growth initiatives toward further strengthening our positions in rapidly-developing economies (RDEs). Our growth in Latin America will be largely driven by leveraging Agricultural Products’ leadership positions. In Asia, our growth initiatives will be more broad-based, with targeted investments in human, scientific and technological resources across our businesses in the region. In Central and Eastern Europe, Turkey and Russia, we will focus on establishing strong footholds in key countries.

Capturing the Value of Common Ownership. We are moving from a highly decentralized organizational model to one that has both centralized and decentralized qualities. We believe this shift will enable us to better leverage the size and scope of our company to realize cost savings and increase efficiencies yet maintain strong accountability in our business units. Our efforts to date have focused on such areas as procurement, strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, communications, global supply chain and RDE infrastructure.

Proactively Managing our Portfolio. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we ceased operations at our phosphates facility in Huelva, Spain due to increasing environmental constraints and poor financial performance. Following this resolution, all current businesses are well positioned for sustained growth and delivering returns above cost of capital. We will continue to assess the performance of all of our business units, and will take actions as needed should a unit’s performance change. Within our businesses, we continue to evaluate the performance of specific product lines and have taken action where a product line









has become non-strategic or economically unsustainable, such as the exit in 2011 of the sodium percarbonate business.

Disciplined Cash Deployment. Under our Vision 2015 plan, we expect that we can fund our growth strategies and return a significant amount of cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.

Underlying our ambition to deliver our Vision 2015 plan is a continued commitment to enterprise sustainability, including responsible stewardship. As we grow, we will do so in a responsible way. Safety remains of utmost importance. Meeting and exceeding our customers’ needs will continue to be a primary focus. And we will, as always, conduct our business in an ethical manner. In the first half of 2012, we will be publishing our inaugural Sustainability Report. This report will provide an overview of our progress.

Financial Information about Our Business Segments

See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Also see below for selected financial information related to our segments.

Agricultural Products

Financial Information (In Millions)

Agricultural Products:Revenue and Operating Margin2007-2011Agricultural Products:Capital Expenditures and Depreciation &Amortization 2007-2011

Overview

Our Agricultural Products segment, which represents approximately43 percentof our 2011 consolidated revenues, develops, manufactures and sells a portfolio of crop protection, professional pest control and lawn and garden products. Our growth efforts focus on developing environmentally compatible solutions that can effectively increase farmers’ yields, provide cost-effective alternatives to older chemistries to which insects, weeds or disease may have developed resistance and strengthen our customer relevancy in focus markets. We are committed to providing unique, differentiated products to our customers by acquiring and further developing technologies as well as by making selective investments in innovation to extend product life cycles. Our external growth efforts include product acquisitions, in-licensing of chemistries and technologies, and alliances to strengthen our market access or complement our existing product portfolio. In 2010, we successfully acquired the proprietary herbicide fluthiacet-methyl which has an excellent fit in our focus market segments and is particularly effective on many tough-to-control weeds that have developed resistance to glyphosate. In 2011, we entered into a joint venture in Argentina to accelerate growth and strengthen our market access in the second largest crop protection market in Latin America. Also in 2011 we acquired Rovral iprodione and Sportak prochloraz fungicides for agricultural use outside of Europe.

We differentiate ourselves by focusing on specific crops and markets and by our low-cost manufacturing strategy. We are continually working to gain access to proprietary chemistries and technologies which are complementary to our existing products and market focus. We are encouraged by our progress in licensing and partnering to create proprietary products, developing technically-advanced delivery systems and commercializing unique product premixes and combinations. We are optimistic that these efforts will continue to result in sales and profit growth over the foreseeable future.













Products and Markets



Agricultural Products:2011 Sales MixAgricultural Products:2011 Revenue by Region

Agricultural Products provides a wide range of proprietary, branded products—based on both patented and off-patented  technologies. Product branding is a prevalent industry practice used to help maintain and grow market share by promoting end-user recognition and product and supplier reputation. Agricultural Products enjoys relatively strong niche positions in crop and non-crop market segments in the Americas, Europe and other parts of the world and derived approximately 80 percent of its revenue from outside North America in 2011.

Insecticides represent the largest product line in the Agricultural Products segment, which include our pyrethroid and carbamate chemistries, in which we maintain leading market positions based on revenues. Our proprietary herbicides have grown significantly over the last several years due to organic growth, new product launches, product acquisitions and the in-licensing of new chemistries. Our herbicide portfolio primarily targets niche uses and controls a wide variety of difficult-to-control weeds. Over the last several years, we have strengthened our market position in fungicides, so that we can broaden our portfolio across the three major pesticide categories, i.e. insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. In 2009, we successfully acquired the proprietary fungicide benalaxyl which has an excellent fit in several regions and crops. In 2011, we acquired iprodione and prochloraz fungicides for all agricultural uses outside of Europe. These are highly effective, resistance management technologies that are used in more than 50 countries, primarily in the tree, fruit and vegetable markets.

The following table summarizes the principal product chemistries in Agricultural Products and the principal uses of each chemistry:

CottonCornRiceCerealsFruits,VegetablesSoybeansSugarCaneTobaccoOilSeedRapeProfessionalPestControlHome &GardenInsecticidesPyrethroidspermethrinXXXXXXXXcypermethrinXXXXXXXXbifenthrinXXXXXXXXXzeta-cypermethrinXXXXXXXXXCarbamatescarbofuranXXXXXXXXcarbosulfanXXXXXXXOthercadusafosXXHerbicidescarfentrazone-ethylXXXXXXXXclomazoneXXXXXXXsulfentrazoneXXXXXfluthiacet-methylXXXFungicidesbenalaxylXXiprodioneXXXXXprochlorazXXX













We have entered into a number of agreements with third-party pesticide producers under which we work together to develop, market and/or distribute existing and new pesticide chemistries in various markets. These proprietary chemistries and technologies are complementary to our existing products and market strategies. The chemistries include flonicamid, a unique insecticide for controlling sucking pests; cyazofamid, a novel fungicide for crop and non-crop uses in the Americas; pyroxasulfone, a proprietary herbicide for controlling glyphosate-resistant weeds; and acetamiprid for pest control markets in North America. We also have numerous supply and access agreements with third-party producers for other pesticide products including the commercialization of proprietary premixes and combinations.

We access key Western European markets through a Belgian-based pesticide distribution company, Belchim Crop Protection N.V., in which we have an ownership interest. We also have joint venture arrangements with Nufarm Limited in three countries in Eastern Europe, which allow us to capitalize on growth in this part of Europe. In North America, we access the market through several major national and regional distributors. We access key Asian markets either through local independent distributors or our own sales and marketing organization. In the large agricultural market of Brazil, we access the market in part through independent distributors and in part we sell directly to large growers through our own skilled sales and marketing organization. Through these and other alliances, along with our own targeted marketing efforts, access to novel technologies and our innovation initiatives, we expect to maintain and enhance our access in key agricultural and non-crop markets and develop new products that will help us continue to compete effectively.

We maintain competitive manufacturing cost positions through our strategy of sourcing raw materials, intermediates and finished products from third parties in lower-cost manufacturing countries such as China, India and Mexico. This strategy has resulted in significant cost savings and lower capital spending, and has reduced the fixed capital intensity of the business.

Growth

We plan to grow by obtaining new and approved uses for existing product lines and acquiring, accessing, developing, marketing, distributing and/or selling complementary chemistries and related technologies in order to enhance and expand our product portfolio and our capabilities to effectively service our target markets and customers. Our growth will depend on our ability to deliver unique innovative solutions to our customers. Over the next several years, growth is anticipated from our proprietary insecticides, herbicides and fungicides, as well as recently accessed third party chemistries and technologies. For our insecticides, we will launch a number of new products, expand labels and introduce unique formulations that will deliver value-adding solutions to our customers. The continued spread of herbicide-resistant weeds and shifts in weed populations, coupled with several recently launched product formulations, expanded labels, premixes and new chemistries provide growth opportunities for our herbicide product line. The strengthening of our fungicide portfolio will increase our relevancy in critical market segments across the globe. Finally, the successful development and commercialization of our productivity-enhancing technologies should also contribute to growth over the next five years.

Industry Overview

The three principal categories of agricultural and non-crop chemicals are herbicides, representing approximately half of global industry revenue; insecticides, representing approximately a quarter of global industry revenue; and fungicides, representing most of the remaining portion of global industry revenue.

Herbicides prevent or inhibit weed growth, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for manual or mechanical weeding. Herbicides can be selective (controlling only specific unwanted vegetation) or non-selective (controlling all vegetation), and are also segmented by their time of application: pre-planting, pre-emergent and post-emergent.

Insecticides are used to control a wide range of insects, including chewing pests (such as caterpillars) and sucking pests (such as aphids). Insecticides are applied as sprays, dusts or granules and are used on a wide variety of crops such as fruits, vegetables, cotton, soybean, corn and cereals. There are several major classes of insecticide chemistries, including organophosphates, carbamates, pyrethroids and neonicotinoids.



Fungicides prevent or inhibit the spread of plant disease which can adversely impact crop yields and quality. In general, fungicides are either preventative (applied before disease is present) or curative (applied after disease is present) and are also segmented as being contact, translaminar or systemic, depending on the extent to which the product is taken up by the crop plant. Fungicides are used on a wide variety of crops such as fruits, vegetables, soybean, cereals and rice.

The agrochemicals industry is relatively consolidated. Leading crop protection companies, Syngenta AG, Bayer AG, Monsanto Company, BASF AG, The Dow Chemical Company and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont), currently represent approximately 75 percent of the industry’s global sales. Significant drivers for this consolidation have been the growth and grower acceptance of biotechnology employed in row crops, and the escalation of research and development and marketing costs.









The next tier of agrochemical producers, including FMC, Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd., Sumitomo Chemical Company Limited, Nufarm Limited, Arysta LifeScience Corporation, United Phosphorous Limited and Cheminova A/S, employ various differentiated strategies and compete by (1) unique technologies, (2) focusing on certain crops, markets and geographies, and/or (3) competitive pricing based on low-cost manufacturing positions. Some of these producers are generic competitors with little or no investment in innovation. There is a growing trend among these producers to partner with one another to gain economies of scale and competitive market access more comparable to larger competitors. Additionally, a number of these companies have grown rapidly through acquisitions of other companies and/or product divestitures from the leading crop protection companies.

Specialty Chemicals

Financial Information (In Millions)



Specialty Chemicals:Revenue and Operating Margin2007-2011Specialty Chemicals:Capital Expenditures and Depreciation andAmortization 2007-2011

Overview

Our Specialty Chemicals segment, which represents26 percentof our 2011 consolidated revenues, is focused on high-performance food ingredients, pharmaceutical excipients, biomedical technologies and lithium products, all of which enjoy solid customer bases and consistent, growing demand. The significant majority of Specialty Chemicals sales are to customers in non-cyclical end markets. We believe that our future growth in this segment will continue to be based on the value-added performance capabilities of these products and our research and development capabilities, as well as on the alliances and the close working relationships we have developed with key global customers. The food ingredients area in particular is a focus for external growth, and our intent is to broaden our product line and expand our participation in RDEs through acquisitions, joint ventures, and alliances.



Products and Markets



Specialty Chemicals:2011 Sales MixSpecialty Chemicals:2011 Revenue by Region











BioPolymer

BioPolymer is organized around the food and pharmaceutical markets, and is a key supplier to many companies in these markets. Many of BioPolymer’s customers in the food and pharmaceutical markets have come to rely on us for the majority of their supply requirements for our products and solutions. We believe that such reliance is based on our innovative solutions and operational quality.

BioPolymer is a supplier of microcrystalline cellulose (“MCC”), carrageenan, alginates and natural colorants—ingredients that have high value-added applications in the production of food, pharmaceutical and other specialty consumer and industrial products. MCC, processed from specialty grades of both hardwood and softwood pulp, provides binding and disintegrant properties for dry tablets and capsules and has unique functionality that improves the texture and stability of many food products. Carrageenan and alginates, both processed from seaweed, are used in a wide variety of food, pharmaceutical and oral care applications. In the fourth quarter of 2011 we acquired South Pole Biogroup Ltda., a Chilean-based natural color and specialty nutrition ingredients manufacturer, further expanding our portfolio of naturally sourced specialty products used in the food, beverage, personal care, nutrition and pharmaceutical markets. Additionally, we are developing technology platforms within biomedical markets to provide ultrapure biopolymers and application know-how for biomedical devices.

The following chart summarizes the markets for BioPolymer’s products and our chemistries in each market:

MicrocrystallinecelluloseCarrageenanAlginatesNatural ColorantsOtherFoodBeverageXXXXDairyXXXXConvenience foodsXXXXXMeat and poultryXXPet food and otherXXXPharmaceuticalTablet binding and coatingXXXXAnti-refluxXLiquid suspensionXXOral careXCosmetic careXXXXOral dose formsXXXXBiomedicalXX

Lithium

Lithium is a vertically-integrated technology business, based on both inorganic and organic lithium chemistries. While lithium is sold into a variety of end-markets, we have focused our efforts on energy storage, specialty polymers and pharmaceuticals.



The electrochemical properties of lithium make it an ideal material for portable energy storage in high performance applications, including heart pacemakers, cell phones, camcorders, personal computers and next-generation technologies that combine cellular and wireless capabilities into a single device. Lithium is also being developed as the enabling element in advanced batteries for use in hybrid electric, plug-in hybrids and all-electric vehicles.

Organolithium products are sold to fine chemical and pharmaceutical customers who use lithium’s unique chemical properties to synthesize high value-added products. Organolithiums are also highly valued in the specialty polymer markets as initiators in the production of synthetic rubbers and elastomers.











The following chart summarizes the major markets for various lithium products:

PrimaryInorganicsSpecialtyInorganicsLithiumMetal/Ion BatteryMaterialsOrganometallicsIntermediatesFine ChemicalsPharmaceuticals, agricultural productsXXXXPolymersElastomers, synthetic rubbers, industrial coatingsXXEnergy StorageNon-rechargeable batteries, lithium ionbatteries (rechargeable)XXXOtherGlass & ceramics, construction, greases& lubricants, air treatment, pool water treatmentXX

Industry Overview

Food Ingredients

Our BioPolymer business principally serves the texture, structure and physical stability (“TSPS”) food ingredients market. TSPS ingredients impart physical properties to thicken and stabilize foods. There are many types of TSPS ingredients and a wide range of food groups served, including bakery, meats, dairy and convenience products. The industry is dispersed geographically, with the majority of our sales in Europe, North America and Asia.

Trends driving market growth include increasing consumer interest in healthier foods, greater convenience and growth in per capita consumption of processed foods in emerging markets. The trend toward health and convenience drives the need for more functional ingredients to impart desired food tastes and textures. We believe carrageenan and MCC, which address this need, are growing faster than the overall TSPS market. The global customer base for TSPS is relatively fragmented and includes large and small food processors. Consolidation among these customers has been a significant trend over the past several years. As a result, TSPS ingredient suppliers such as us, have focused on establishing alliances with market leaders with the goal of reducing costs, leveraging technology and expanding product offerings with key accounts.

Within the entire food ingredients market, there are a relatively large number of suppliers due principally to the broad spectrum of chemistries employed. Segment leadership, global position and investment in technology are key factors to sustaining profitability. In addition, compared to our business, larger suppliers may often provide a broader product line and a range of services to food companies including functional systems or blends. The top suppliers of TSPS ingredients include FMC, DuPont, J.M. Huber Corporation, Kerry Group plc and Cargill Incorporated.

With the acquisition of South Pole Biogroup Ltda, our BioPolymer business now participates in the natural colorant food ingredients market.  Biogroup's proprietary know-how is used to formulate unique natural color blends used in Food and Personal Care applications. Natural colors are a $700 million a year market with annual growth of approximately 20% in the last 2 years driven by consumer demand from synthetic to natural colors. By 2015 the natural colors market is expected to reach $1 billion or more, as consumer preference for natural colors and ingredients and overall health and nutrition continues to increase in mature and emerging markets.



Pharmaceutical Ingredients

Our BioPolymer business sells formulation ingredients to the pharmaceutical industry. Our raw materials function as binders, disintegrants, suspending agents, and control release compounds in the production of both solid and liquid pharmaceutical products.

Competitors tend to be grouped by chemistry. Our principal MCC competitors include J. Rettenmaier & Sôhne GmbH, Ming Tai Chemical Co., Ltd., Asahi Kasei Corporation and Blanver Farmoquimica Ltda. While pricing pressure from low cost producers is a common competitive dynamic, companies like us offset that pressure by providing the most reliable and broadest range of products and services. Our customers are pharmaceutical firms who depend upon reliable therapeutic performance of their drug products.

We also supply alginates, MCC and carrageenan into oral care, cosmetics and health care markets. Highly refined extracts from selected seaweeds provide a broad range of alginate functionality, including uses in anti-reflux, dental impressions, control release of drugs and wound dressings. Special grades of carrageenan extracts are used in liquid cough medicines, toothpaste and a variety of skin care products.









Lithium

Lithium is a highly versatile metal with diverse end-use markets including both rechargeable and disposable batteries, polymers, pharmaceuticals, greases/lubricants, glass/ceramics and aluminum production. The markets for lithium chemicals are global with significant demand growth occurring outside the U.S. in Japan, China and South Korea. We market a wide variety of lithium-based products ranging from upstream commodity lithium carbonate to highly specialized downstream products such as organolithium compounds and high value materials for batteries.

There are only three key producers of lithium compounds: FMC, Rockwood Holdings, Inc., and Sociedad Química y Minera de Chile S.A., all of which produce lithium carbonate. FMC and Rockwood are the primary producers in downstream lithium specialties.

Industrial Chemicals

Financial Information (In millions)

Industrial Chemicals:Industrial Chemicals:Revenue and Operating MarginCapital Expenditures and Depreciation and2007-2011Amortization 2007-2011





Overview

Our Industrial Chemicals segment, which represents31 percentof our 2011 consolidated revenues, has low-cost positions in high volume inorganic chemicals including soda ash and hydrogen peroxide, complemented by high value, niche positions in specialty alkali and specialty peroxygens product lines. Our strategic intent for the Industrial Chemicals Group is to create a portfolio of high performing businesses exhibiting greater top and bottom line growth with significantly higher margins and reduced volatility than in the past. We will achieve this by enhancing our leadership position in natural soda ash and continuing to shift our peroxygens portfolio toward high-value specialties. We expect steady organic growth in our soda ash business due to capacity expansions serving consistent growth in global demand. We anticipate significant organic growth in environmental applications over the next five years, and we see opportunities to expand our environmental technology platform through targeted acquisitions of complementary technologies. In addition to solid revenue growth, we expect improved profit mix stemming from increased specialty market participation and the benefits of restructuring actions.













Products and Markets



Industrial Chemicals:Industrial Chemicals:2011 Sales Mix2011 Revenue by Region Mix



Industrial Chemicals serves a diverse group of markets, from economically-sensitive industrial sectors to technology-intensive specialty markets. We process and sell refined inorganic products that are sought by customers for their critical reactivity or specific functionality in markets such as glass, detergents, chemicals and pulp and paper. In addition, we produce, purify and market higher value downstream derivatives into specialized and customer-specific applications. These applications include electronics, iodides and animal nutrition.

Alkali

Our Alkali Chemicals Division produces natural soda ash. Soda ash is used by manufacturers in glass, chemical processing and detergent industries. To lesser degrees, we also produce sodium bicarbonate, caustic soda and sodium sesquicarbonate. The majority of our alkali sales are manufactured by and sold through FMC Wyoming Corporation, which we manage as an integral part of our alkali business and in which we own shares representing an 87.5 percent economic interest, with the remaining shares held by two Japanese companies.

We mine and produce natural soda ash using proprietary, low-cost mining technologies, such as longwall and solution mining, which we believe give us globally the lowest cost position. Our two production sites in Green River, Wyoming have the name plate capacity to produce approximately 4.85 million short tons of soda ash annually. During 2009, with the economic downturn resulting in a drop in soda ash demand, we mothballed the Granger facility and consolidated all of our soda ash production at the Westvaco facility. Since then, export markets have recovered much faster than the U.S. domestic market, and in July 2011 we restarted our Granger facility to ramp up production to an annual rate of 500,000 short tons by the end of 2011 to satisfy export demand. We also began evaluating further production increases at Granger which could bring  Granger production to 1.2 million short tons by 2015.

Peroxygens

We produce peroxygen products at production facilities in the United States, Canada, Spain, Germany and the Netherlands. We also participate in a joint venture company in Thailand. We sell hydrogen peroxide into the pulp and paper, chemical processing, environmental, electronics and food industries. We are a leading North American producer of hydrogen peroxide due in part to our broad product line, geographically-advantaged plant locations, state-of-the-art processing technology and superior customer service. Hydrogen peroxide represents approximately 65 percent of our peroxygens sales.

Our specialty peroxygens business supplies persulfate products primarily to polymer, printed circuit board, hair care and soil remediation markets. Peracetic acid is predominantly supplied to the food industry for biocidal applications. Typically, we compete as a specialty player where we believe that we are differentiated by our strong technical expertise, unique process technology, intellectual property and geographic location.

Zeolites and Silicates

We have two manufacturing facilities in Spain where we have market position in zeolites and silicates. We sell zeolites and silicates products which are used in detergents, car tires, textile, foundry and pulp and paper markets. We are exploring new applications for zeolite and silicates including water treatment, environmental, detergent and agricultural markets.









Industry Overview

We primarily participate in the following product areas: soda ash, peroxygens and zeolites and silicates. These products are generally inorganic and are generally commodities that, in many cases, have few cost-effective substitutes. Growth is typically a function of industrial production in developed economies and a function of the rate of industrialization in developing economies. Pricing tends to reflect the supply and demand balance as producers add or reduce capacity in response to demand changes.

Soda Ash

Soda ash is a highly alkaline inorganic chemical essential in the production of glass and widely used in the production of chemicals, soaps and detergents, and many other products. Natural soda ash is typically produced from trona, a natural form of sodium sesquicarbonate, through mining and chemical processing. Soda ash may also be produced synthetically, but this process requires significantly more energy and produces large quantities of waste by-products, making it much less cost-effective than natural soda ash production.

Because of the processing cost advantages of trona and the large natural reserves of trona in the U.S., particularly in Green River, Wyoming, all U.S. soda ash is naturally produced. By contrast, due to a lack of trona, the majority of the soda ash that is manufactured in the rest of the world is produced synthetically. Other U.S. producers are OCI Chemical Corporation, Solvay S.A., The General Chemical Group Inc. (in which a majority stake is owned by Tata Chemicals Limited), and Nirma Limited.

Approximately 50 percent of U.S. soda ash production served export markets in 2011, with approximately 38 percent of U.S. soda ash production exported through the American Natural Soda Ash Corporation (“ANSAC”). ANSAC is the foreign sales association of three Wyoming U.S. soda ash producers established in 1983 under the Webb-Pomerene Act and subsequent legislation. Since its creation, ANSAC has been successful in coordinating soda ash exports, taking advantage of the inherent cost benefits of U.S. produced natural soda ash and leveraging its large scale of operations to the benefit of its member companies. Consequently, U.S. exports of soda ash have increased over fivefold in the last 25 years.

Peroxygens

Hydrogen peroxide is typically sold for use as a bleacher or oxidizer. While it often competes with other chemicals capable of performing similar functions, the extent of substitution is limited. Our specialty peroxygen derivatives (e.g., persulfates and peracetic acid) also functions as bleaching or oxidizing agents in some applications. Environmental regulations, regional cost differences primarily due to transportation costs, and technical differences in product performance factor into the decision to use hydrogen peroxide or one of its derivatives rather than another product. Hydrogen peroxide is sold in aqueous solutions, usually 70 percent, 50 percent or 35 percent by weight.

The pulp and paper industry represents approximately 65 percent of demand for hydrogen peroxide in North America and Europe. In these markets, hydrogen peroxide is used as an environmentally friendly bleaching agent to brighten chemical, mechanical and recycled pulps as well as to treat a wide range of mill pollutants in the waste stream. The North American and European paper markets are mature, and new investment in pulp and paper capacity is largely focused in Asia and South America. The other North American and European hydrogen peroxide producers are EKA, a wholly owned subsidiary of Akzo Nobel N.V, Arkema Inc., Evonik Industries AG, Kemira Ovj, and Solvay S.A.

Zeolites and Silicates

Zeolite has a network structure which facilitates the exchange of cations, enabling it to soften hard water in detergents. Environmental regulations limiting or banning the use of sodium tripolyphosphate in detergents have facilitated the introduction of Zeolite as a component in detergents. The properties of zeolites make them very suitable for specific applications such as adsorption, separation, ion exchange and others. In addition, the zeolite network structure can be modified to produce specialty zeolite products designed to meet sophisticated market demands. We are currently working on applications to meet these demands. The main European Zeolite producers are PQ Corporation, Industrial Zeolite, Birac and FMC.

Soluble silicates are very versatile inorganic chemical products. They are produced by combining various ratios of sand with alkali to obtain a variety of products used in many industries. The applications of silicates include detergents, ceramics, paper, foundry, construction, rubber, agriculture, textiles and production of other chemicals. Due to their relatively low price and high logistic cost, the silicate market is very fragmented with mostly local production. The main European producers are PQ Corporation, Cognis and FMC.









Source and Availability of Raw Materials

Our raw material requirements vary by business segment and include mineral-related natural resources (trona ore and lithium brines), processed chemicals, seaweed, specialty wood pulps and energy sources such as gas, coal, oil and electricity. Raw materials represented approximately 26 percent of our 2011 costs of sales and services, and no one raw material represented more than 12 percent of our total raw material purchases.

We extract ores used in Industrial Chemicals’ manufacturing processes from mines (e.g. trona in North America). Raw materials used by Specialty Chemicals include lithium brines, various types of seaweed and natural colorant raw materials that are sourced on a global basis, and specialty pulps which are purchased from selected global producers. Raw materials used by Agricultural Products, primarily processed chemicals, are obtained from a variety of suppliers worldwide.

Patents

We own a number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and licenses that are cumulatively important to our business. We do not believe that the loss of any one or group of related patents, trademarks or licenses would have a material adverse effect on the overall business of FMC. The duration of our patents depends on their respective jurisdictions. Their expiration dates range through 2031.

Seasonality

The seasonal nature of the crop protection market and the geographic spread of the Agricultural Products business can result in significant variations in quarterly earnings among geographic locations. Agricultural products sold into the northern hemisphere (North America, Europe and parts of Asia) serve seasonal agricultural markets from March through September, generally resulting in earnings in the first, second and third quarters. Markets in the southern hemisphere (Latin America and parts of the Asia Pacific region, including Australia) are served from July through February, generally resulting in earnings in the third, fourth and first quarters. The remainder of our business is generally not subject to significant seasonal fluctuations.



Competition

We have a number one or number two market position in many of our product lines, based on revenue, either globally or in North America, largely as a result of our product offerings, proprietary technologies and our position as a low-cost producer. The following product lines accounted for the majority of our 2011 consolidated revenue. Market positions are based on the most recently available revenue data.



Agricultural ProductsSpecialty ChemicalsIndustrial ChemicalsProduct LineMarket PositionProduct LineMarket PositionProduct LineMarket PositionPyrethroids#2 in North AmericaMicrocrystalline cellulose#1 globallySoda ash#1 in North AmericaCarbofuran#1 globallyCarrageenan#1 globallyPersulfates#1 globallyAlginates#1 globallyLithium#2 globally

We encounter substantial competition in each of our three business segments. This competition is expected to continue in both the United States and markets outside of the United States. We market our products through our own sales organization and through alliance partners, independent distributors and sales representatives. The number of our principal competitors varies from segment to segment. In general, we compete by operating in a cost-efficient manner and by leveraging our industry experience to provide advanced technology, high product quality and reliability, and quality customer and technical service.

Our Agricultural Products segment competes primarily in the global chemical crop protection market for insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. The industry is characterized by a relatively small number of large competitors and a large number of smaller, often regional competitors. Industry products include crop protection chemicals and, for certain major competitors, genetically engineered (crop biotechnology) products. Competition from generic agrochemical producers has increased as a significant number of product patents held industry-wide have expired in the last decade. In general, we compete as an innovator by focusing on product development, including novel formulations, proprietary mixes, and advanced delivery systems and by acquiring or licensing (mostly) proprietary chemistries or technologies that complement our product and geographic focus. We also differentiate ourselves by our global cost-competitiveness via our manufacturing strategies, establishing effective product stewardship programs and developing strategic alliances that strengthen market access in key countries and regions.









With significant positions in markets that include alginate, carrageenan, microcrystalline cellulose and lithium-based products, our Specialty Chemicals segment competes on the basis of product differentiation, market applications expertise, customer service and price. BioPolymer competes with both direct suppliers of cellulose and seaweed extract as well as suppliers of other hydrocolloids, which may provide similar functionality in specific applications. In microcrystalline cellulose, competitors are typically smaller than us, while in seaweed extracts (carrageenan and alginates), we compete with other broad-based chemical companies. We and each of our two most significant competitors in lithium extract the element from naturally occurring lithium-rich brines located in the Andes Mountains of Argentina and Chile, which are believed to be the world’s most significant and lowest cost sources of lithium.



Research and Development Expense

We perform research and development in all of our segments with the majority of our efforts focused in the Agricultural Products segment. The development efforts in the Agricultural Products segment focus on developing environmentally sound solutions and new product formulations that cost-effectively increase farmers’ yields and provide alternatives to existing and new chemistries. Our research and development expenses in the last three years are set forth below:



Year EndedDecember 31,(in Millions)201120102009Agricultural Products$84.3$80.9$73.1Specialty Chemicals14.213.412.9Industrial Chemicals6.76.26.8Total$105.2$100.5$92.8

Environmental Laws and Regulations

A discussion of environmental related factors can be found in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 10 “Environmental Obligations” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.

Employees

We employ approximately 5,000 people, with approximately 2,500 people in our domestic operations and 2,500 people in our foreign operations. Approximately 35 percent of our U.S.-based and foreign-based employees, respectively, are represented by collective bargaining agreements. We have successfully concluded virtually all of our recent contract negotiations without a work stoppage. In those rare instances where a work stoppage has occurred, there has been no material effect on consolidated sales and earnings. We cannot predict, however, the outcome of future contract negotiations. In 2012, we have nine collective-bargaining agreements expiring all of which are related to our foreign-based employees. These contracts affect approximately 33 percent of foreign-based employees.









Securities and Exchange Commission Filings

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings are available free of charge on our website, www.fmc.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are posted as soon as practicable after we furnish such materials to the SEC.

In accordance with New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules, on May 20, 2011, we filed a certification signed by our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) that, as of the date of the certification, he was unaware of any violation by FMC of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards. We also file with each Form 10-Q and our Form 10-K certifications by the CEO and Chief Financial Officer under sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.





