ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

The following table shows the principal products produced by our three business segments and their raw materials and uses:







SegmentProductRaw MaterialsUses

Agricultural ProductsInsecticidesSynthetic chemical intermediatesProtection of crops, including cotton, sugarcane, rice, corn, soybeans, cereals, fruits and vegetables from insects and for non-agricultural applications including pest control for home, garden and other specialty markets

HerbicidesSynthetic chemical intermediatesProtection of crops, including cotton, sugarcane, rice, corn, soybeans, cereals, fruits and vegetables from weed growth and for non-agricultural applications including turf and roadsides

FungicidesSynthetic chemical intermediatesProtection of crops, including fruits and vegetables from fungal disease



Specialty ChemicalsMicrocrystalline CelluloseSpecialty pulpDrug dry tablet binder and disintegrant, food ingredient

CarrageenanRefined seaweedFood ingredient for thickening and stabilizing, encapsulants for pharmaceutical and nutraceutical

AlginatesRefined seaweedFood ingredient, pharmaceutical excipient, healthcare and industrial uses

Natural ColorantsPlant sources, select insect speciesFood, pharmaceutical and cosmetics

PectinCitrus fruit peelsFood ingredients for texture and stabilizing

LithiumExtracted lithiumBatteries, polymers, pharmaceuticals, greases and lubricants, glass and ceramics and other industrial uses



Industrial ChemicalsSoda AshMined trona oreGlass, chemicals, detergents

PeroxygensHydrogen, caustic soda, sulfuric acid, acetic acidPulp & paper, chemical processing, detergents, antimicrobial disinfectants, environmental applications, electronics, and polymers

SilicatesCaustic Soda, Soda AshTires, detergents and pulp & paper













We have operations in many areas around the world. With a worldwide manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, we are able to respond rapidly to global customer needs, offset downward economic trends in one region with positive trends in another and match local revenues to local costs to mitigate the impact of currency volatility. The charts below detail our sales and long-lived assets by major geographic region.



Our Strategy

Since 2010, we have invested significant resources and managerial time in the development and implementation of a new strategic plan for the Company. This corporate strategy, which we refer to as Vision 2015, is focused on driving sales and earnings growth while sustaining a return on invested capital well above our cost of capital. This strategy's objective is to achieve a total shareholder return in the top quartile of a broad group of industry peers. Vision 2015 has five key elements:

Growing Leadership Positions

Increasing our Reach. We intend to bias our growth initiatives toward further strengthening our positions in rapidly-developing economies (RDEs). Our growth in Latin America will be largely driven by leveraging Agricultural Products’ leadership positions. In Asia, our growth initiatives will be more broad-based, with targeted investments in human, scientific and technological resources across our businesses in the region. In Central and Eastern Europe, Turkey and Russia, we will focus on establishing strong footholds in key countries.

Capturing the Value of Common Ownership. We are moving from a highly decentralized organizational model to one that has both centralized and decentralized qualities. We believe this shift will enable us to better leverage the size and scope of our company to realize cost savings and increase efficiencies yet maintain strong accountability in our business units. Our efforts to date have focused on such areas as procurement, strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, communications, global supply chain and RDE infrastructure.

Proactively Managing our Portfolio. We continually assess the performance of all of our business units, and will take actions as needed should a unit’s performance change. Within our businesses, we continue to evaluate the performance of specific product lines and have taken action where a product line has become non-strategic or economically unsustainable, such as the exit in 2011 of the sodium percarbonate product line and of the zeolites product line in 2012.









Disciplined Cash Deployment. Under our Vision 2015 plan, we expect to fund our growth strategies and return a significant amount of cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.

Underlying our ambition to deliver our Vision 2015 plan is a continued commitment to enterprise sustainability, including responsible stewardship. As we grow, we will do so in a responsible way. Safety is and will remain of utmost importance. Meeting and exceeding our customers’ expectations will continue to be a primary focus. We will, as always, conduct our business in an ethical manner. In 2012, we published our inaugural Sustainability Report, which provides an overview of our sustainability effects and progress.

Financial Information about Our Business Segments

See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Also see below for selected financial information related to our segments.

Agricultural Products



Financial Information (In Millions)

Overview

Our Agricultural Products segment, which represents approximately47 percentof our2012consolidated revenues, operates in the agrochemicals industry. This segment develops, manufactures and sells a portfolio of crop protection, professional pest control and lawn and garden products.











Products and Markets





Agricultural Products' portfolio is comprised of three major pesticide categories: insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. Insecticides represent the largest product line in our Agricultural Products segment, which include our pyrethroid and carbamate chemistries, in which we maintain leading market positions based on revenues. Our herbicide portfolio primarily targets niche uses and controls a wide variety of difficult-to-control weeds. In 2011, we acquired iprodione and prochloraz fungicides for all agricultural uses outside of Europe. This acquisition strengthened our fungicide portfolio offerings as these two fungicides are highly effective, resistance management technologies that are used in more than 50 countries, primarily in the tree, fruit and vegetable markets.

We access key Western European markets through a Belgian-based pesticide distribution company, Belchim Crop Protection N.V., in which we have an ownership interest. We also have joint venture arrangements with Nufarm Limited in three countries in Eastern Europe, which allow us to capitalize on growth in this part of Europe. In North America, we access the market through several major national and regional distributors including our own sales and marketing organization in Canada. We access key Asian markets either through local independent distributors or our own sales and marketing organizations. In the large agricultural market of Brazil, we access the market in part through independent distributors and in part we sell directly to large growers through our own sales and marketing organization. We access other key South American markets through local independent distributors, our own sales and marketing organizations and our recently formed joint venture distributor in Argentina.  Through these and other alliances, along with our own targeted marketing efforts, access to novel technologies and our innovation initiatives, we expect to maintain and enhance our access in key agricultural and non-crop markets and develop new products that will help us continue to compete effectively.









The following table summarizes the principal product chemistries in Agricultural Products and the principal uses of each chemistry:

CottonCornRiceCerealsFruits,VegetablesSoybeansSugarCaneTobaccoOilSeedRapeProfessionalPestControlHome &GardenInsecticidesPyrethroidspermethrinXXXXXXXXcypermethrinXXXXXXXbifenthrinXXXXXXXXXXzeta-cypermethrinXXXXXXXXXCarbamatescarbofuranXXXXXXXXXcarbosulfanXXXXXXXOthercadusafosXXXHerbicidescarfentrazone-ethylXXXXXXXXXXclomazoneXXXXXXXXsulfentrazoneXXXXXfluthiacet-methylXXFungicidesbenalaxylXiprodioneXXXXXXprochlorazXXX

Industry Overview

The three principal categories of agricultural and non-crop chemicals are herbicides, representing approximately half of global industry revenue; insecticides, representing approximately a quarter of global industry revenue; and fungicides, representing most of the remaining portion of global industry revenue.

The agrochemicals industry is relatively consolidated. Leading crop protection companies, Syngenta AG, Bayer AG, Monsanto Company, BASF AG, The Dow Chemical Company and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont), currently represent approximately 70 percent of the industry’s global sales. The next tier of agrochemical producers include FMC, Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd., Sumitomo Chemical Company Limited, Nufarm Limited, Arysta LifeScience Corporation, United Phosphorous Limited and Cheminova A/S. This tier employs various differentiated strategies and compete through unique technologies focusing on certain crops, markets and geographies, and competitive pricing based on low-cost manufacturing positions.

Growth

We plan to grow by obtaining new and approved uses for existing product lines and acquiring, accessing, developing, marketing, distributing and/or selling complementary chemistries and related technologies in order to enhance and expand our product portfolio and our capabilities to effectively service our target markets and customers.









Specialty Chemicals

Financial Information (In Millions)





Overview

Our Specialty Chemicals segment, which represents24 percentof our2012consolidated revenues, is focused on high-performance food ingredients, pharmaceutical excipients, biomedical technologies and lithium products. The significant majority of Specialty Chemicals sales are to customers in non-cyclical end markets. We believe that our future growth in this segment will continue to be based on the value-added performance capabilities of these products and our research and development capabilities, as well as on the alliances and the close working relationships we have developed with key global customers. The food ingredients area in particular is a focus for external growth, and our intent is to broaden our product line and expand our participation in RDEs through acquisitions, joint ventures, and alliances.



Products and Markets





BioPolymer

BioPolymer is organized around the food and pharmaceutical markets. Our product offerings into the food markets principally provide texture, structure and physical stability ("TSPS") to thicken and stabilize certain food products. Our formulation ingredients serving the pharmaceutical industry function as binders, disintegrants, suspending agents, and control release compounds for the production of both solid and liquid pharmaceutical products.









The following chart summarizes the markets for BioPolymer’s products and our chemistries in each market:

MicrocrystallinecelluloseCarrageenanAlginatesNatural ColorantsPectinOtherFoodBeverageXXXXXDairyXXXXXConvenience foodsXXXXXXMeat and poultryXXPet food and otherXXXPharmaceuticalTablet binding and coatingXXXXAnti-refluxXLiquid suspensionXXOral careXCosmetic careXXXXOral dose formsXXXXBiomedicalXX

Lithium

Lithium is a vertically-integrated business, based on both inorganic and organic lithium chemistries. While lithium is sold into a variety of end-markets, we have focused our strategy on energy storage, specialty polymers, grease and pharmaceuticals.

The electrochemical properties of lithium make it an ideal material for portable energy storage in high performance applications, including smart phones, tablets, laptop computers, military and aerospace devices and vehicles and other next-generation technologies. Lithium is also a critical element in advanced batteries for use in hybrid electric, plug-in hybrids and all-electric vehicles.

Organolithium products are highly valued in the specialty polymer markets as initiators in the production of synthetic rubbers and elastomers. Organolithiums are also sold to fine chemical and pharmaceutical customers who use lithium's unique chemical properties to synthesize high value-added products.









The following chart summarizes the major markets for various lithium products:

PrimaryInorganicsSpecialtyInorganicsLithiumMetal/Ion BatteryMaterialsOrganometallicsIntermediatesFine ChemicalsPharmaceuticals, agricultural productsXXXXPolymersElastomers, synthetic rubbers, industrial coatingsXXEnergy StorageNon-rechargeable batteries, lithium ionbatteries (rechargeable)XXXOtherGlass & ceramics, construction, greases& lubricants, air treatment, pool water treatmentXX

Industry Overview

Food Ingredients

The industry is dispersed geographically, with the majority of our sales in Europe, North America and Asia. The food ingredients market is comprised of a large number of suppliers due to the broad spectrum of chemistries employed. Segment leadership, global position and investment in technology are key factors to sustaining profitability. The top suppliers of TSPS ingredients include FMC, DuPont, J.M. Huber Corporation, Kerry Group plc and Cargill Incorporated.

Pharmaceutical Ingredients

Competitors tend to be grouped by chemistry. Our principal MCC competitors include J. Rettenmaier & Sôhne GmbH, Ming Tai Chemical Co., Ltd., Asahi Kasei Corporation and Blanver Farmoquimica Ltda. While pricing pressure from low cost producers is a common competitive dynamic, companies like us offset that pressure by providing the most reliable and broadest range of products and services. Our customers are pharmaceutical firms who depend upon reliable therapeutic performance of their drug products.

Lithium

The markets for lithium chemicals are global with significant demand growth occurring outside the U.S. in Japan, China and South Korea. There are three key producers of lithium compounds: FMC, Rockwood Holdings, Inc., and Sociedad Química y Minera de Chile S.A. FMC and Rockwood are the primary producers of lithium specialties. We expect a few new producers may add primary inorganics capacity to the global lithium supply in the future.









Industrial Chemicals

Financial Information (In millions)





Overview

Our Industrial Chemicals segment, which represents29 percentof our2012consolidated revenues, primarily participates in the following markets: alkali, peroxygens and environmental solutions. We have low-cost positions in high volume inorganic chemicals including soda ash and hydrogen peroxide, complemented by high value, niche positions in specialty alkali and specialty peroxygens product lines. We process and sell refined inorganic products that are sought by customers for their critical reactivity or specific functionality in markets such as glass, detergents, chemicals and pulp and paper.

Products and Markets



Alkali

Our Alkali Chemicals division produces natural soda ash. Soda ash is used by manufacturers in glass, chemical processing and detergent industries. To lesser degrees, we also produce sodium bicarbonate, caustic soda and sodium sesquicarbonate. The majority of our alkali sales are manufactured by and sold through FMC Wyoming Corporation, which we manage as an integral part of our alkali business and in which we own shares representing an 87.5 percent economic interest, with the remaining shares held by two Japanese companies.









Peroxygens

Our primary peroxygen product is hydrogen peroxide which comprises 60 percent of our peroxygen sales. Hydrogen peroxide is sold into the pulp and paper, chemical processing, environmental, electronics and food industries. We also produce specialty peroxygens which include persulfate salts and peracetic acid. Persulfates are primarily sold to polymer, energy recovery, printed circuit board, hair care and soil remediation markets. Peracetic acid is predominantly supplied to the food industry for biocidal applications.

Environmental Solutions

Our Environmental Solutions Division, which was created in 2012, provides proprietary products and specialty solutions that prevent or remediate contamination of air, soil and water. As a global leader, we combine best-in-class technologies with proven best practices to help clients better manage the issues of cost and compliance in the most challenging and complex environments. Our environmental solutions product portfolio integrates our existing proprietary products and specialty solutions which include chemistries that utilize hydrogen peroxide and soda ash.

Industry Overview

Industrial Chemicals serves a diverse group of markets, from economically-sensitive industrial sectors to technology-intensive specialty markets. Our product offerings are primarily inorganic and are generally commodities that, in many cases, have few cost-effective substitutes. Growth is typically a function of industrial production in developed economies and a function of the rate of industrialization in developing economies.

Alkali

Natural soda ash is typically produced from trona ore through mining and chemical processing. Soda ash may also be produced synthetically, but requires significantly more energy and produces large quantities of waste by-products, making it much less cost-effective than natural soda ash production. Due to the processing cost advantages of mining trona and the large natural reserves of trona ore in the U.S., particularly in the Green River Basin of Wyoming, all U.S. soda ash is naturally produced. By contrast, due to a lack of trona ore, the majority of the soda ash that is manufactured in the rest of the world is produced synthetically. Other U.S. producers are OCI Chemical Corporation, Church & Dwight, Solvay S.A., The General Chemical Group Inc. (in which a majority stake is owned by Tata Chemicals Limited), and Nirma Limited.

Peroxygens

The pulp and paper industry represents approximately 60 percent of demand for hydrogen peroxide in North America and Europe. In these markets, hydrogen peroxide is used as an environmentally friendly bleaching agent to brighten chemical, mechanical and recycled pulps as well as to treat a wide range of mill pollutants in the waste stream. The North American and European paper markets are mature, and new investment in pulp and paper capacity is largely focused in Asia and South America. The other North American and European hydrogen peroxide producers are EKA, a wholly owned subsidiary of Akzo Nobel N.V, Arkema Inc., Evonik Industries AG, Kemira Ovj, and Solvay S.A.

Environmental Solutions

This industry serves the growing pollution prevention and remediation market.  We are focused on a $3 billion market space that is growing, driven by regulations, technology substitutions and rapidly developing economies.

Source and Availability of Raw Materials

Our raw material requirements vary by business segment and primarily include mineral-related natural resources (trona ore and lithium brines), processed chemicals, seaweed, specialty wood pulps and energy sources such as gas, coal, oil and electricity. During 2012 no individual raw material represented more than five percent of our total raw material purchases. Additionally, during 2012 no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of our raw materials.

We extract ores used in Industrial Chemicals’ manufacturing processes from mines (e.g. trona ore in North America). Raw materials used by Specialty Chemicals include lithium brines, various types of seaweed and natural colorant raw materials that are sourced on a global basis, and specialty pulps which are purchased from selected global producers. Raw materials used by Agricultural Products, primarily processed chemicals, are obtained from a variety of suppliers worldwide.









Patents

We own a number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and licenses that are cumulatively important to our business. We do not believe that the loss of any individual or combination of related patents, trademarks or licenses would have a material adverse effect on the overall business of FMC. The duration of our patents depends on their respective jurisdictions. Their expiration dates range through 2032.

Seasonality

The seasonal nature of the crop protection market and the geographic spread of the Agricultural Products business can result in significant variations in quarterly earnings among geographic locations. Agricultural products sold into the northern hemisphere (North America, Europe and parts of Asia) serve seasonal agricultural markets from March through September, generally resulting in earnings in the first, second and third quarters. Markets in the southern hemisphere (Latin America and parts of the Asia Pacific region, including Australia) are served from July through February, generally resulting in earnings in the third, fourth and first quarters. The remainder of our business is generally not subject to significant seasonal fluctuations.

Competition

We have a number one or number two market position in many of our product lines, based on revenue, either globally or in North America, largely as a result of our product offerings, proprietary technologies and our position as a low-cost producer. The following product lines accounted for the majority of our2012consolidated revenue. Market positions are based on the most recently available revenue data.



Agricultural ProductsSpecialty ChemicalsIndustrial ChemicalsProduct LineMarket PositionProduct LineMarket PositionProduct LineMarket PositionPyrethroids#2 in North AmericaMicrocrystalline cellulose#1 globallySoda ash#1 in North AmericaCarbofuran#1 globallyCarrageenan#1 globallyPersulfates#1 globallyAlginates#1 globallyLithium#2 globally

We encounter substantial competition in each of our three business segments. We market our products through our own sales organization and through alliance partners, independent distributors and sales representatives. The number of our principal competitors varies from segment to segment. In general, we compete by operating in a cost-efficient manner and by leveraging our industry experience to provide advanced technology, high product quality and reliability, and quality customer and technical service.

Our Agricultural Products segment competes primarily in the global chemical crop protection market for insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. Industry products include crop protection chemicals and, for certain major competitors, genetically engineered (crop biotechnology) products. Competition from generic agrochemical producers is significant as a number of key product patents held industry-wide have expired in the last decade. In general, we compete as an innovator by focusing on product development, including novel formulations, proprietary mixes, and advanced delivery systems and by acquiring or licensing (mostly) proprietary chemistries or technologies that complement our product and geographic focus. We also differentiate ourselves by our global cost-competitiveness via our manufacturing strategies, establishing effective product stewardship programs and developing strategic alliances that strengthen market access in key countries and regions.

Our Specialty Chemicals segment has significant positions in markets that include alginate, carrageenan, microcrystalline cellulose and lithium-based products. We compete on the basis of product differentiation, market applications expertise, customer service and price. BioPolymer competes with both direct suppliers of cellulose and seaweed extract as well as suppliers of other hydrocolloids, which may provide similar functionality in specific applications. In microcrystalline cellulose, competitors are typically smaller than us, while in seaweed extracts (carrageenan and alginates), we compete with other broad-based chemical companies. We and each of our two most significant competitors in lithium extract the element from naturally occurring lithium-rich brines located in the Andes Mountains of Argentina and Chile, which are believed to be the world’s most significant and lowest cost sources of lithium.

Our Industrial Chemicals segment serves the soda ash markets worldwide, the peroxygens markets predominantly in North America and Europe and the site remediation market in the United States. In North America, our soda ash business competes with four domestic producers of natural soda ash, three of which operate in the vicinity of our mine and processing facilities









near Green River, Wyoming. Outside of the U.S., Canada, Europe and South Africa, we sell soda ash mainly through the American Natural Soda Ash Corporation ("ANSAC"). Internationally, our natural soda ash competes with synthetic soda ash manufactured by numerous producers, ranging from integrated multinational companies to smaller regional companies. We maintain a leading position in the North American market for hydrogen peroxide, particularly in specialty segments. There are currently four other firms competing in the hydrogen peroxide market in North America but most of them focus primarily on the commodity pulp and paper segment. The primary competitive factor affecting the sales of soda ash and hydrogen peroxide to commodity markets is price. We seek to maintain our competitive position by employing low cost processing technology. We possess strong cost and market positions in our European peroxygens business. In each of these markets, we face significant competition from a range of multinational and regional chemical producers. We are the only producer of persulfates in the Americas but face competition from imports from Germany, Japan, Taiwan and India. In the European persulfates market, we compete with two domestic firms as well as imports from China, Taiwan and India. In both regions, Chinese imports are constrained by the presence of anti-dumping duties.

Research and Development Expense

We perform research and development in all of our segments with the majority of our efforts focused in the Agricultural Products segment. The development efforts in the Agricultural Products segment focus on developing environmentally sound solutions and new product formulations that cost-effectively increase farmers’ yields and provide alternatives to existing and new chemistries. Our research and development expenses in the last three years are set forth below:



Year Ended December 31,(in Millions)201220112010Agricultural Products$95.4$84.3$80.9Specialty Chemicals14.914.213.4Industrial Chemicals7.56.76.2Total$117.8$105.2$100.5

Environmental Laws and Regulations

A discussion of environmental related factors can be found in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 10 “Environmental Obligations” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.

Employees

We employ approximately 5,700 people, with about 2,700 people in our domestic operations and 3,000 people in our foreign operations. Approximately 31 percent of our U.S.-based and 32 percent of our foreign-based employees, respectively, are represented by collective bargaining agreements. We have successfully concluded most of our recent contract negotiations without any material work stoppages. In those rare instances where a work stoppage has occurred, there has been no material effect on consolidated sales and earnings. We cannot predict, however, the outcome of future contract negotiations. In 2013,  10 collective-bargaining agreements will expire. These contracts affect about two percent of our U.S.-based employees and 24 percent of foreign-based employees.

Securities and Exchange Commission Filings

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings are available free of charge on our website, www.fmc.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are posted as soon as practicable after we furnish such materials to the SEC.

In accordance with New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules, on May 11, 2012, we filed a certification signed by our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) that, as of the date of the certification, he was unaware of any violation by FMC of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards. We also file with each Form 10-Q and our Form 10-K certifications by the CEO and Chief Financial Officer under sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.















