ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.

This report contains statements referring to Whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which are intended to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions,
financial condition and liquidity. Words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as “may,” “could,” “will,” “should,” “possible,” “plan,” “predict,”
“forecast,” “potential,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “believe,” “may impact,” “on track,” and words and terms of similar
substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or
circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. Those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results could differ
materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following:

Risks Relating to Our Business

We face intense competition in the home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance.

The loss of or substantial
decline in sales to any of our key trade customers, which include Lowe’s, Sears, Home Depot, Casas Bahia, Ikea, major buying groups, and builders, could adversely affect our financial performance.We sell to a sophisticated customer base of
large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. Most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, which facilitates the trade customers’ ability to change volume among suppliers. As the trade
customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to meet their requirements,
our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. The loss of, or substantial decline in volume of, sales to Lowe’s, Sears, Home Depot, Casas Bahia, Ikea, major buying groups or builders, or any other trade customers to
which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. Additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect
on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations.

Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect
demand for our products.A number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer confidence and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing
homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. Higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, and higher tax rates adversely affect demand. A
decline in economic activity and conditions in the United States, Brazil and the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.







Product liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and
financial performance.We are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. In the event that any of our products
prove to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign such products. In addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or
reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims
brought against us. We may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. Product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially
reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance, so any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.

We regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality
products to our customers. We are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as necessary, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. Actual costs of these issues and any future issues
depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne initially by Whirlpool or the supplier, and, if initially borne by
Whirlpool, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. The actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition
and performance.We are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks, including litigation concerning product defects, intellectual property rights, taxes, environmental matters, commercial matters and compliance with
competition laws and sales and trading practices. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and
diversion of management attention. We estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves as required by generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in
light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss
contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. Actual results may significantly vary from
our reserves.

We are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third
parties.We are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. Government regulators in various jurisdictions are currently investigating alleged pricing
practices in the global compressor industry, including our Embraco compressor business headquartered in Brazil. In addition, we have been named as a defendant in numerous related class action lawsuits in various jurisdictions, which seek damages in
connection with the pricing of compressors, and additional lawsuits may be filed. The impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations.

Foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance.We generate a significant portion of our revenue
and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the U.S. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign
operations. We use currency forwards and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. We cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. In addition,
because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or
earnings. Finally, the amount of legal







contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other
arrangements. Such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure.

Risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs.For the year ended
December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 47% of our net sales from outside of North America (which includes Canada and Mexico), including 25% in Latin America, 17% in Europe and 5% in Asia. We expect that international sales will continue to
account for a significant percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. These risks
include the following:



•changes in foreign country regulatory requirements;

•various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses;

•imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers;

•political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty;

•foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;

•changes in foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of
tax laws;

•inflation;

•work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products;

•government price controls;

•extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and

•the inability to repatriate cash.

Additionally, as a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations.
Additionally, any determination that we have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on us.

Terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, natural disasters, and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our
products. Such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, both in the United States and elsewhere.

An inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance.The highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively
execute and manage our business including our global operating platform initiative. Our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, drive productivity and quality improvements, and accelerate our rate of innovation. Our inability to
effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. In addition, our failure to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales. If we failed in this
way, it could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. Additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating changes in customer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in
response to such changes. Our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop,
manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets.

We face inventory and other asset
risk.We record a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value. We also review our long-lived and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changed
circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we determine that impairment has occurred, we record a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. Although
we believe our







inventory and other asset related provisions are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions, we will not
incur additional inventory or asset related charges. Such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.

Fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our profits.The primary materials used to produce and manufacture our products are steel,
oil, plastic resins, and base metals, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, and nickel. On a global and regional basis, the sources and prices of those materials and components are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends,
transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. Material cost inflation is expected to be approximately $250 million to $300
million in 2011, largely driven by increases in base metals, such as copper, aluminum, zinc and nickel, as well as component parts and steel. Continued significant increases in these and other costs in the future could materially affect our profits.

The ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities,
including our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance.We use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products and use numerous suppliers to provide materials and
components. Because we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risks. In addition,
certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. We would be unable to obtain these proprietary component parts for an indeterminate period of time if these
single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. Our operations and operations at suppliers’ facilities are
subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, fire, earthquake, flooding, or other natural disasters. Such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. Any significant
disruption could negatively impact our revenue and earnings performance.

Significant differences between actual results and
estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could
adversely affect our financial results.We have both funded and unfunded noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that cover most of our North American employees and certain foreign employees. We also have unfunded postretirement health
care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), the Pension Protection Act and the Internal Revenue Code govern the funding obligations for our U.S. pension plans, which are our
principal pension plans. Our U.S. defined benefit plans were frozen as of December 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. For 2007 and beyond, Whirlpool employees may participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan.

As of December 31, 2010, our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs
exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $2,205 million ($1,534 million of which was attributable to pension plans and $671 million of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits). Estimates for the
amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health care benefit plans are based on various assumptions. These assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and
health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, and health care cost trend rates. Significant differences in results or significant
changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses.

Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and
brands.We consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We







attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and
assignment agreements. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness.

We have applied for patent protection in the United States and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, product features, and processes. We cannot be assured that the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office or any other jurisdiction will approve any of our patent applications. Additionally, the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated, or others could design around our patents and the patents may not be of sufficient
scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights
or protect them to the same extent as United States law. As a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial
performance.

Moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on the valid intellectual property rights of
third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the
attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions
against development and sale of certain products.

We may be subject to information technology system failures, network
disruptions and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results.We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations
and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. Information technology system failures could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of
customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach.

In addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing
and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we
may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing
inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale.

Our
information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets.

A deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business.As of December 31, 2010, we had
approximately 71,000 employees. Of those employees, various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements represent approximately 60%. Our current collective bargaining agreements generally have three year terms. Due to the large
number of collective bargaining agreements, we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees. We may be subject to employee work stoppages that, if such events were to occur, may have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Further, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which may also have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.







Our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is
crucial to our results of operations and future growth.We depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our business and
operations and the home appliance industry. We cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. A lengthy period of time is required to hire and develop replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart Whirlpool.
An inability to hire, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations.

Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for
our products or result in litigation.



