10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, DC 20549

FORM 10-K

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d)

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002

Commission file no. 0-14948

FISERV, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

WISCONSIN

39-1506125

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

255 FISERV DRIVE, BROOKFIELD, WISCONSIN


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (262) 879-5000

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

NONE

(Title of Class)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value

(Title of Class)

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity
held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of January 31, 2003: $5,715,000,000

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes

x

No

¨

State the
aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of June 28, 2002:
$6,738,000,000.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of
each of the registrant’s classes of common stock, as of January 31, 2003: 191,991,614

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

2002 Annual Report to Shareholders—Parts II, IV

Proxy Statement for April 3, 2003, Annual Meeting of Shareholders—Part III


Fiserv, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Form 10-K

December 31, 2002


PART I

Special Note
Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Certain
matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are “forward-looking statements” intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking
statements can generally be identified as such because the context of the statement will include words such as “believes,” “anticipates” or “expects,” or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe
future plans, objectives or goals of Fiserv, Inc. (“Fiserv” or the “Company”) are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results
to differ materially from those currently anticipated. Factors that could affect results include, among others, economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors affecting the Company’s operations, markets, services and related
products, prices and other factors discussed in the Company’s prior filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the
forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.

Item 1.

Business

Fiserv is a
leading provider of integrated data processing and information management systems to the financial industry. The Company was formed in 1984 through the combination of two major regional data processing firms that began as the data processing
operations of their parent financial institutions. Historically, these firms expanded operations by developing a range of services for their parent organizations, as well as other financial institutions. Since its organization, Fiserv has grown by
developing highly specialized services and product enhancements, adding new clients and acquiring firms complementing the Fiserv organization.

As a leading technology resource, Fiserv serves more than 13,000 financial services providers worldwide, including banks, broker-dealers,
credit unions, financial planners and investment advisers, insurance companies and agents, leasing companies, mortgage lenders and savings institutions. The Company operates centers nationwide for full-service financial data processing, software
system development, item processing and check imaging, technology support and related product businesses. In addition, the Company has business support centers in Argentina, Australia, Canada, Colombia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Puerto Rico,
Poland, Singapore and the United Kingdom.

Business
Strategy

The market for products and
services offered by financial institutions continues to undergo change. The financial industry is introducing and implementing new alternative lending and investment products with great frequency. The distinctions among financial services
traditionally offered by banking and thrift organizations as well as by securities and insurance firms continue to narrow. Financial institutions diversify and consolidate on an ongoing basis in response to market pressures, as well as under the
auspices of regulatory agencies.

Although such
market changes have led to consolidations that have reduced the number of financial institutions in the United States, consolidation has not resulted in a material reduction of the number of customers or financial accounts serviced by the financial
industry as a whole. New organizations entering the once limited financial services industry have opened new markets for Fiserv services.

To stay competitive in this changing marketplace, financial institutions are providing their customers a broad variety of new products and
services that are typically transaction-oriented and fee-



based. The growing volume and types of transactions and accounts have increased the data processing
requirements of these institutions. As a consequence, Fiserv believes that the financial services industry is one of the largest users of data processing products and services.

Moreover, Fiserv expects that the financial industry will continue to require significant commitments of
capital and human resources to the information systems requirements, to require application of more specialized systems and to require development, maintenance and enhancement of applications software. Fiserv believes that economies of scale in data
processing operations are essential to justify the required level of expenditures and commitment of human resources.

In response to these market dynamics, financial institutions obtain data processing services by different means than in the past. Many
smaller, local and regional third-party data processors are leaving the business or consolidating with larger providers. A number of large financial institutions previously providing third-party processing services for other institutions have
withdrawn from the business to concentrate on their primary, core businesses. Similarly, an increasing number of financial institutions that previously developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing operations have
outsourced their data processing requirements by licensing their software from a third party or by contracting with third-party processors to reduce costs and enhance their products and services. Outsourcing can involve the licensing of software,
which eliminates the costly technical expertise within a financial institution, or the utilization of service bureaus, facilities management or resource management capabilities. Fiserv provides all of these options to the financial industry.

To capitalize on these industry trends, Fiserv
has implemented a strategy of continuing to develop new products, improving the cost effectiveness of services provided to clients, aggressively soliciting new clients, and making both opportunistic and strategic acquisitions. In 2001, Fiserv
acquired 12 businesses, adding combined annual revenues of more than $380 million and approximately 4,000 new employees. In 2002, Fiserv acquired five businesses, with combined annual revenues of more than $210 million and approximately 1,100
employees. The following is a summary of acquisitions made by Fiserv since its organization.

Acquisition History







Principal
Services

The Company’s core
business is serving the needs of banking, lending, insurance, financial planners and securities providers. With its wide array of industry-specific products, Fiserv believes its clients can satisfy their customers’ growing desire for anywhere,
anytime financial services. The Company’s operations have been classified into two primary business segments. The Financial institution outsourcing, systems and services business segment provides account and transaction processing solutions and
services to financial institutions and other financial intermediaries. The Securities processing and trust services business segment provides securities processing solutions and retirement plan administration services to brokerage firms, investment
advisers and financial institutions. Fiserv also provides plastic card issuance, design, personalization and mailing services, and document solutions.

Financial Institution Outsourcing, Systems and Services.

Fiserv provides financial solutions that are focused on technology needs
to over 8,100 financial institutions, including banks, credit unions, leasing companies, mortgage lenders and savings institutions. The Company provides comprehensive solutions designed to meet the information processing requirements of financial
institutions, including account and transactions processing services, item processing, loan servicing and lending systems. Fiserv also offers its clients service bureau and in-house processing systems, e-commerce solutions and complementary
products. These complementary products and back-office solutions include treasury and investment management, decision support and performance measurement solutions, electronic funds transfer services, imaging systems, call center systems, loan
origination and tracking, auto leasing software, data warehousing and data mining, and credit services. Fiserv provides a wide range of information processing solutions through multiple delivery channels primarily in the United States. In addition,
many of the Company’s systems have applications designed for the unique requirements of financial institutions located outside North America where the Company provides services in over 65 countries.

The insurance industry, like other financial industries, has
requirements for basic administration services and information processing systems. Fiserv provides comprehensive insurance processing services and products to the insurance and related industries. Fiserv insurance solutions include administration
services, systems and software for life, annuity, health, property and casualty, flood and workers compensation insurance companies. The Company also provides claims workstation software, financial accounting systems, computer-based training for
insurance and securities, administrative services for employee benefit programs and electronic sales platforms that can be delivered over the Internet.

Securities Processing and Trust Services.

Fiserv provides high-quality, integrated securities clearing, execution and facilitation
of traditional and Internet brokerage services through advanced technology that makes executing trades faster, easier and more economical, focused customer service and economies of scale. The Company’s clients include over 400 broker-dealers
and financial institutions, including full-service and discount broker-dealers, registered investment advisers, municipal bond dealers, underwriters, retail brokerage operations of financial institutions, insurance firms and mutual fund companies.



Fiserv is a
leading provider of retirement plan products and back-office services to financial advisers and is the largest independent trust company in the United States. The Company’s clients to whom it provides self-directed retirement plan
administration services and mutual fund custody and trading services include financial institutions, financial intermediaries, financial planners, investment advisers, third-party pension administrators and individual investors.

Financial information concerning the Company’s industry
segments is included in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibit 13 and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Servicing the Market

The market for Fiserv account and transaction processing
services and products has specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on software flexibility, product quality, reliability of service, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, timely introduction of new
products and features, cost effectiveness and service excellence. Through its multiple product offerings, the Company believes it successfully services these market needs and requirements for clients ranging in size from start-ups to some of the
largest financial services providers in the world.

Fiserv believes that the position it holds as an independent, growth-oriented company dedicated to its business is an advantage to its clients as compared to many of its competitors that are regional or local cooperatively owned
organizations, data processing subsidiaries or affiliates of financial institutions or hardware vendors. Due to the economies of scale gained through its broad market presence, Fiserv offers clients a selection of information management and data
processing solutions designed to meet the specific needs of the ever-changing financial services industry. The Company believes this independence and primary focus on the financial services industry helps its business development, client service and
product support teams remain responsive to the technology needs of its market.

“The Client Comes First” is one of the Company’s founding principles. It is a belief backed by a dedication to providing ongoing client service and support—no matter the client
size.

The Company believes its commitment of
substantial resources to training and technical support helps it retain clients. Fiserv conducts the majority of its new and ongoing client training in its technology centers, where the Company maintains fully equipped demonstration and training
facilities containing equipment used in the delivery of Fiserv services. Fiserv also provides local and on-site training services to its clients.

Fiserv has been an international company since 1985, when its banking products were first launched throughout Europe, Asia and Latin
America. Since then, the Company has developed an infrastructure for supporting clients in international markets. Fiserv currently maintains international support staffs in Argentina, Australia, Colombia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Puerto Rico,
Poland, Singapore and the United Kingdom, and operates a joint venture in Canada.

Product Development

To meet the changing technology needs of the clients Fiserv serves the Company continually develops, maintains and enhances its systems. In 2002, product development expenses represented approximately 8% of the Company’s
processing and services revenues.

The Fiserv
network of development and financial information technology centers applies the shared expertise of multiple Fiserv teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems around its leading technology platforms. The applications of its
account processing systems meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the various international, national, regional or local market-specific financial service environments of the Company’s many clients.

Although multiple Fiserv development and financial technology
centers share the Company’s variety of nationally developed and supported software, each center has specialized capabilities that enable it to offer system application features and functions specialized to its client base. If the client’s



requirements warrant, Fiserv
purchases software programs from third parties that are interfaced with existing Fiserv systems. In developing its products, Fiserv stresses interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of its clients.

Fiserv provides a dedicated solution that is designed,
developed, maintained and enhanced according to each client’s goals for service quality, business development, asset and liability mix, local market positioning and other user-defined parameters.

Fiserv regards its software as proprietary and utilizes a
combination of trade secrecy laws, internal security practices and employee non-disclosure agreements for protection. The Company believes that legal protection of its software, while important, is less significant than the knowledge and experience
of the Company’s management and personnel and their ability to develop, enhance and market new products and services. The Company believes that it holds all proprietary rights necessary for the conduct of its business.

Competition

The market for information technology products and services
within the financial industry is highly competitive. The Company’s principal competitors include internal data processing departments, data processing affiliates of large companies or large computer hardware manufacturers, independent computer
service firms and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. Some of these competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources than the Company. Competition for in-house data processing and software
departments is intensified by the efforts of computer hardware vendors who encourage the growth of internal data centers.

Competitive factors for processing services include product quality, reliability of service, comprehensiveness and integration of product
lines, timely introduction of new products and features, and price. The Company believes that it competes favorably in each of these categories. In addition, the Company believes that its position as an independent vendor, rather than as a
cooperative, an affiliate of a larger corporation or a hardware vendor, is a competitive advantage.

We compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products and services to financial institutions and other financial
intermediaries, including ALLTEL Information Services, Inc., Bisys, Inc., Jack Henry and Associates, Inc. and Metavante Corporation. There has been significant consolidation among providers of information technology products and services to
financial institutions, and we believe this consolidation will continue in the future.

Government Regulation

The Company’s data processing subsidiaries are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services
to these financial institutions, the Company’s data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Association, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and various state regulatory authorities. In addition, independent auditors annually review several of the Company’s operations to provide internal control evaluations for its clients’ auditors and regulators.

As trust companies under Colorado law, First
Trust Corporation, Lincoln Trust Company and Trust Industrial Bank, subsidiaries of the Company, are subject to the regulations of the Colorado Division of Banking. In 1991, First Trust Corporation received approval of its application for Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage of its customer deposits.

The Company’s securities processing business, Fiserv Securities, Inc., is subject to the broker-dealer rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the National Association of
Securities Dealers and other stock exchanges of which it is a member.



Employees

Fiserv employs approximately 19,400
specialists in its information management centers and related product and service companies. This service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, often complemented by management and other
direct experience in banks, credit unions, insurance companies and agencies, mortgage firms, savings and other financial services business environments.

Fiserv employees provide expertise in sales and marketing; account management and client services; computer operations, network control
and technical support; programming, software development, modification and maintenance; conversions and client training; financial planning and related support services.

In supporting international markets, Fiserv works closely with its clients to help ensure their continued
success. Fiserv employees speak the same language as their clients and also understand the differences in the style of doing business, as well as the financial products requirements and regulations unique to each client and its specific market.

Fiserv employees are not represented by a union,
and there have been no work stoppages, strikes or organizational attempts. The service nature of the Fiserv business makes its employees an important corporate asset, and while the market for qualified personnel is competitive, the Company does not
experience significant difficulty with hiring or retaining its staff of top industry professionals. In assessing companies to acquire, the quality and stability of the prospective company’s staff are emphasized.

Fiserv attributes its ability to attract and keep quality
employees to, among other things, the Company’s growth and dedication to state-of-the-art software development tools and hardware technologies.

Available Information

The Company maintains a Website with the address

www.fiserv.com

. The Company is not including the information contained on the
Company’s Website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available free of charge (other than an investor’s own Internet access charges) through its Website its Annual Report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the Securities
and Exchange Commission.

Item 2.

Properties

Fiserv
currently operates full-service data centers, software system development centers, and item processing and back-office support centers in 165 cities (154 in the United States).

The Company owns 12 facilities; all other buildings in which centers are located are subject to leases
expiring through 2003 and beyond. The Company owns or leases approximately 161 mainframe computers (Amdahl, Compaq Alpha, Data General, Hewlett Packard, IBM, NCR, Tandem and Unisys). In addition, the Company maintains its own national data
communication network consisting of communications processors and leased lines.

Fiserv believes its facilities and equipment are generally well maintained and are in good operating condition. The Company believes that the computer equipment it owns and its various facilities are
adequate for its present and foreseeable business. Fiserv periodically upgrades its mainframe capability as needed. Fiserv contracts with multiple sites to provide processing back-up in the event of a disaster and maintains duplicate tapes of data
collected and software used in its business in locations away from the Company’s facilities.



Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

In
the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are named as defendants in various lawsuits in which claims are asserted against the Company. On October 4, 2001, the Company initiated legal action in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against E*TRADE Securities, Inc. (“E*TRADE”) as the result of E*TRADE refusing to accept delivery of a bond (with a carrying value of $27.0 million as of December 31, 2002) in violation of the terms
of a contract between E*TRADE and a subsidiary of the Company. The Company intends to vigorously enforce its rights under the terms of its agreement with E*TRADE and expects to prevail and recover the carrying value of the bond. The Company expects
that the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Company.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of the Company.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of February 28, 2003, together with their ages, positions and business experience are described below:

Mr. Muma
has been President and Chief Executive Officer since 1999 and a Director of the Company since it was established in 1984. He was President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from 1984 to 1999.

Mr. Dillon was named Chairman of the Board of Directors in
July 2000. He served as Vice Chairman from 1995 to 2000. From 1976 to 1995, Mr. Dillon was co-founder and President of Information Technology, Inc. (“ITI”), a software and services organization that the Company acquired in 1995. Mr. Dillon
also serves as Chairman of ITI.



Mr. Jensen was
named Senior Executive Vice President in 1986 and has been Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Assistant Secretary and a Director of the Company since it was established in 1984. He was an Executive Vice President of the Company from 1984 to 1986.

Mr. Balthasar was named Senior Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in October 2002. He was President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv Financial Institution Group from 2000 to 2002. He served as Corporate Executive Vice President and
President–Savings and Community Bank Group from 1996 to 1999, when he was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv Financial Institution Outsourcing Group. Mr. Balthasar has been with Fiserv and a predecessor company since
1974.

Mr. Acheson was named Group President,
Item Processing in October 2002. He served as President of the Item Processing Division from 2000 to 2002. He was President of Fiserv Solutions of Canada and President of INTRIA Items Inc. from 1996 to 2000.

Mr. Beriault was named Group President, Securities & Trust
Services in April 2002. He was President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv Securities Group from 1999 to 2002. He served as Corporate Executive Vice President and President–Securities Processing Group from 1998 to 1999. From 1986 to
1998, Mr. Beriault was President of Lincoln Trust Company, which the Company acquired in 1995.

Mr. Craft was named Senior Vice President and Operating Group Chief Financial Officer of the Company in October 2002. He was Senior Vice President of Finance of the Fiserv Financial Institution Group
from 2000 to 2002. He served as Senior Vice President of Finance of the Savings and Community Bank Group from 1996 to 1999. Mr. Craft has been with Fiserv since 1985.

Mr. Foy was named Group President, Bank Servicing in October 2002. He joined Fiserv in 2001 as President of
the Direct Banking Division. Previously he was founder and CEO of Login & Learn, Inc. From 1978 to 1999, he was with M&I Data Services (Metavante) in a number of management positions, serving as President of the Outsourcing Business Group
from 1995 to 1999.

Mr. Neill was named Group
President, Credit Union & Industry Products in October 2002. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the group from 2001 to 2002. He was President of the Products & Services Division and Group President of the Industry Products
& Services Group from 1993 to 2001.

Mr.
Poskochil was named Group President, Bank Systems & eProducts in October 2002. He served as President of the Bank Systems and eProducts Division from 1999 to 2002. He joined Information Technology, Inc. (“ITI”) in 1978 and served in a
number of capacities. In 1998 he was named President and Chief Executive Officer of ITI, which the Company acquired in 1995.

Mr. Puzniak was named Group President, Lending Systems & Services in October 2002. He served as President Bank Servicing Division II
from 1999 to 2002, and was President of the Outsourcing and Information Services Division from 1998 to 1999. He was President of the Fiserv Pittsburgh division from 1995 to 1998.

Mr. Schmelzer was named Group President, Marketing & Sales in February 2002. He served as Corporate
Executive Vice President, Marketing & Sales for the Company from 1992 to 2002. Prior to joining Fiserv, he was Director of Commercial Analysis for IBM.

Mr. Sprague has been Corporate Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 1994, and Chief Administrative Officer of the
Company since 1999. He has been involved with the Company’s corporate and legal concerns since it was formed in 1984.

PART
II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information pertaining thereto set forth under the captions
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and



Results of
Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Market Price Information” in the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “Annual Report”).

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Selected Financial Data” in the Annual Report.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Annual Report.

Item 7a.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations – Market Risk” in the Annual Report.

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,” “Consolidated Balance Sheets,” “Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” “Quarterly Financial Information” and “Independent Auditors’ Report”
in the Annual Report.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information required by this item with respect to directors is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Matter 1. Election of Directors” and
“Information with Respect to Continuing Directors” in the definitive Proxy Statement for the Company’s 2003 annual meeting of shareholders (the “Proxy Statement”). The information required by this item with respect to
executive officers appears at the end of Part I of this Form 10-K. The information required by this item with respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by directors and officers is incorporated by reference to
the information set forth under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the Proxy Statement.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Compensation of Directors,” “Compensation of Executive Officers,” “Agreements with
Executive Officers” and “Stock Price Performance Graph” in the Proxy Statement.



Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in the Proxy Statement.

In addition, the following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2002, information with respect to compensation plans under which equity securities of the Company are authorized for issuance (in
thousands, except per share data):

Equity
Compensation Plan Information

(1)

The number of shares remaining available for future issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan is subject to an annual increase on the first day of each fiscal year equal to the least of (i) 600,000 shares, (ii) 1% of the shares of Fiserv common stock outstanding on such date or (iii) a lesser amount determined by the Fiserv Board of
Directors.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Not applicable.

Item 14.

Controls and Procedures

(a)
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures:

In accordance with Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the “Exchange Act”), within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report on Form 10-K, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the



Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-14(c) and 15d-14(c) under the Exchange Act). Based upon their evaluation of these disclosures
controls and procedures, the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the date of such evaluation to ensure
that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, was made known to them by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this Annual Report on Form 10-K was being prepared.

(b) Changes in internal controls:

There were not any significant changes in the Company’s internal controls or other factors that could significantly affect these
controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) (1) Financial Statements:

The consolidated financial statements
of the Company as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2002, together with the report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP, dated January 24, 2003, appear on pages 15 through 40 of the
Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders and Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K Annual Report, and are incorporated herein by reference.

(a) (2) Financial Statement Schedule:

The following financial statement schedule of the Company and related independent auditors’ report are included in this Report on Form 10-K:

Page

Independent Auditors’ Report


Schedule II–Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


All
other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended December 31, 2002.

(c) Exhibits:

The exhibits listed in the accompanying exhibit index
are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: February 28, 2003

FISERV, INC.

By:

/

S

/    Leslie M.
Muma

Leslie M. Muma

President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following person on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 28, 2003.



CERTIFICATIONS

I, Leslie M. Muma, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Fiserv, Inc.;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this Annual Report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this Annual Report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this Annual Report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this Annual Report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a.

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this Annual Report is being prepared;

b.

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this Annual Report
(the “Evaluation Date”); and

c.

presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee
of registrant’s Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize
and report financial data and have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b.

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls;

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this Annual Report whether or not there were significant changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Date: February 28, 2003

By:

/

S

/    Leslie M. Muma

Leslie M. Muma

President and Chief Executive Officer



CERTIFICATIONS

I, Kenneth R. Jensen, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Fiserv, Inc.;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this Annual Report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this Annual Report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this Annual Report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this Annual Report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a.

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this Annual Report is being prepared;

b.

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this Annual Report
(the “Evaluation Date”); and

c.

presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee
of registrant’s Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize
and report financial data and have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b.

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls;

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this Annual Report whether or not there were significant changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Date: February 28, 2003

By:

/

S

/    Kenneth R. Jensen

Kenneth R. Jensen

Senior Executive Vice President, Chief

Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant

Secretary



INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Fiserv, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated
financial statements of Fiserv, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2002, and have issued our report thereon dated January 24, 2003, which report includes an
explanatory paragraph as to the adoption in 2002 of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Such consolidated financial statements and report are included in your 2002 Annual Report to
Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of Fiserv, Inc., listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

/

S

/    D

ELOITTE

& T

OUCHE

LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

January 24, 2003

SCHEDULE II

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts



EXHIBIT
INDEX

18