10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, DC 20549

FORM 10-K

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13
or 15(d)

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003

Commission file no. 0-14948

FISERV, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code: (262) 879-5000

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

NONE

(Title of Class)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value

(Title of Class)

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes

x

No

¨

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of
June 30, 2003: $6,600,000,000.

Indicate the number of shares
outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of common stock, as of January 31, 2004: 194,605,104

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

2003 Annual Report to Shareholders - Parts
I, II, IV

Proxy Statement for April 6, 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders - Part III


Fiserv, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Form
10-K

December 31, 2003


PART I

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements

Certain matters discussed in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K are “forward-looking statements” intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified
as such because the context of the statement will include words such as “believes,” “anticipates” or “expects,” or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe future plans, objectives or goals of
Fiserv, Inc. (“Fiserv” or the “Company”) are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those
currently anticipated. Factors that could affect results include, among others, economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting the Company’s operations, markets, services and related products, prices and
other factors discussed in the Company’s prior filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements
and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Fiserv assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Item 1. Business

Fiserv provides
integrated data processing and information management systems to more than 15,000 financial services providers, including banks, broker-dealers, credit unions, financial planners and investment advisers, insurance companies and agents, self-insured
employers, leasing companies, mortgage lenders and savings institutions. The Company operates centers in the United States for full-service financial data processing, software system development, item processing and check imaging, technology support
and related product businesses. The Company’s operations are principally domestic and in 2003 international operations constituted approximately 4% of total processing and services revenues through business support centers in Argentina,
Australia, Canada, Colombia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, Poland, Singapore and the United Kingdom.

The Company was formed in 1984 through the combination of two major regional data processing firms that began as the data processing operations of their
parent financial institutions. Historically, these firms expanded operations by developing a range of services for their parent organizations, as well as other financial institutions. Since its organization, Fiserv has grown by developing highly
specialized services and product enhancements, adding new clients and acquiring firms complementing the Fiserv organization.

Business Strategy

The market for products and services offered by financial institutions continues to undergo change. The financial industry introduces and implements new
alternative lending and investment products with great frequency. The distinctions among financial services traditionally offered by banking and thrift organizations as well as by securities and insurance firms continue to narrow, as traditionally
different entities compete for the same ultimate customers with competitive services. Financial institutions diversify and consolidate on an ongoing basis in response to market pressures, as well as under the auspices of regulatory agencies.

Although such market changes have led to consolidations that
have reduced the number of financial institutions in the United States, consolidation has not resulted in a material reduction of the number of customers or financial accounts serviced by the financial industry as a whole. New organizations entering
the once limited financial services industry have opened new markets for Fiserv services.



To stay competitive in this changing marketplace, financial institutions are providing their customers a
broad variety of new products and services that are typically transaction-oriented and fee-based. The growing volume and types of transactions and accounts have increased the data processing requirements of these institutions. As a consequence,
Fiserv believes that the financial services industry is one of the largest users of data processing products and services.

Moreover, Fiserv expects that the financial industry will continue to require significant commitments of capital and human resources to the information
systems requirements, to require application of more specialized systems and to require development, maintenance and enhancement of applications software. Fiserv believes that economies of scale in data processing operations are essential to justify
the required level of expenditures and commitment of human resources.

In response to these market dynamics, financial institutions obtain data processing services by different means than in the past. Many smaller, local and regional third-party data processors are leaving the business or consolidating with
larger providers. A number of large financial institutions previously providing third-party processing services for other institutions have withdrawn from the business to concentrate on their primary, core businesses. Similarly, an increasing number
of financial institutions that previously developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing operations have outsourced their data processing requirements by licensing their software from a third party or by contracting
with third-party processors to reduce costs and enhance their products and services. Outsourcing can involve the licensing of software, which eliminates the costly technical expertise within a financial institution, or the utilization of service
bureaus, facilities management or resource management capabilities. Fiserv provides all of these options to the financial industry.

To capitalize on these industry trends, Fiserv has implemented a strategy of continuing to develop new products, improving the cost effectiveness of
services provided to clients, aggressively soliciting new clients, and making both opportunistic and strategic acquisitions. In 2001, Fiserv acquired 12 businesses, adding combined annual revenues of more than $380 million and approximately 4,000
new employees. In 2002, Fiserv acquired five businesses, with combined annual revenues of more than $210 million and approximately 1,100 employees. In 2003, Fiserv acquired 12 businesses, with combined annual revenues of more than $610 million and
approximately 3,200 employees. The following is a summary of acquisitions made by Fiserv since its organization.

Acquisition History







Principal Products and
Services

The Company provides an extensive portfolio
of products and services to enable banking, lending, insurance, financial planners and securities providers to deliver anywhere, anytime financial services to their customer base.

The Company’s operations have been classified into three primary business segments. The financial institution
outsourcing, systems and services business segment provides account and transaction processing systems and services to financial institutions and other financial intermediaries; the health plan management services segment provides services to
employers who self-fund their health plan, including services such as handling payments to healthcare providers, assisting with cost controls, plan



design services, medical provider administration and other related services; and the securities processing and trust
services business segment provides securities processing products and services and retirement plan administration services to brokerage firms, investment advisers and financial institutions.

Fiserv also provides plastic card issuance, design, personalization and
mailing services, and document management products.

Financial Institution Outsourcing, Systems and Services.

Fiserv provides financial services and products that are focused on technology needs to more than 9,400 financial institutions, including banks, credit unions, leasing and
finance companies, mortgage lenders and savings institutions.

“Core” Products.

Fiserv delivers “core” products that integrate account servicing and management information functions for its financial institution clients, as well as ancillary value-added products and services
that complement the “core” products. “Core” products include systems to process various customer deposit and loan accounts, a financial institution’s general ledgers, central information files and other financial information
and include the extensive security, report generation and other features required by a financial institution to process transactions for its depositors and other customers, as well as to meet its regulatory compliance requirements and its own
management information needs. “Core” products are offered through on-line data transmission connections to Fiserv data processing centers, often called “service bureaus”, or as stand-alone, in-house, licensed software for
installation on client-owned computer systems.

While many
clients contract to obtain all or a majority of their data processing requirements from Fiserv, the modular design of many of the Company’s service bureau and software products allows a client to start with one application, such as a deposit
system, and gradually add applications and features as needed. Fiserv supports a broad range of terminals and other client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by many different vendors. This support capability reduces the client’s initial
conversion expenses, enhances an existing client’s ability to change equipment and broadens the Company’s market.

Bank and Thrift “Core” Products.

The Company’s principal service bureau products used by banks, thrifts and savings institutions
include Fiserv VISION

®

, Comprehensive Banking
System (“CBS”) outsourcing, Information Technology, Inc. (“ITI”) Premier II outsourcing, and Source One.

Fiserv also offers in-house licensed software products to its banking clients, including ITI Premier II, Precision Computer Systems Vision

®

and CBS. CBS is available both domestically and
internationally through its International Comprehensive Banking System (“ICBS”).

Credit Union “Core” Products.

The principal “core” products offered to credit unions include the Summit Spectrum system, the GALAXY Plus Credit Union System, the Users DataSafe product, the
Integrasys Premier product, and several CUSA Technologies systems. Each of these products is offered via a service bureau or as an in-house licensed software system. In addition to these products, Fiserv offers the AFTECH Advantage

®

and XP Systems XP2

®

licensed software products that are designed to operate in-house on the clients’
systems.

Insurance “Core” Products.

The
insurance industry, like other financial industries, has requirements for basic administration services and information processing systems. Fiserv provides comprehensive insurance processing services and products to the insurance and related
industries. Fiserv insurance products and services include the Freedom suite of administration systems, such as Claims Workstation, TRACKER Unclaimed Property System, Regulatory Series Annual Statement 2000 and Freedom Reinsurance system; the Fiserv
Life Insurance Solutions ID3 system for life, annuity and health requirements; the Fiserv SIS property and casualty systems; and claim processing services for flood and workers compensation insurance companies. Emerald Learning Solutions and RegEd
sell computer-based training for insurance and securities professionals.

Complementary or Add-On Products.

In addition to the “core” products, Fiserv offers complementary products and back-office products and services. These products and services allow financial
institutions to offer additional services to their clients such as home banking, automated teller machine access and other treasury and related services of varying complexity and sophistication, such as asset-liability modeling and cash management.



Specifically, Fiserv offers products to its financial institution clients that allow them in turn to
offer sophisticated banking services to their individual customers such as electronic funds transfer services offered by Fiserv EFT/CNS that include the ACCEL network and related ATM access services, as well as Internet banking products offered
through Fiserv eSolutions that allow individual bank customers to bank from home.

Fiserv also offers its financial institution clients complementary or add-on products that amplify the “core” products such as item processing and imaging systems for the item processing needs of clients,
treasury and investment management systems including a series of treasury management products sold under the BANKLINK

®

name and the CBS Worldwide MetaBank Portfolio Management and Investment Portfolio Accounting systems as well as a suite of EPSIIA and Imagesoft
electronic document management systems.

Finally, Fiserv has
many other complementary product offerings that allow its financial institution clients to improve the management and efficiency of their businesses. Such products include IPS-Sendero decision support and performance measurement systems, including
ASAP/Spectrum, DecisionServ and the VISION family of integrated software and support services that enhance a financial institution’s asset/liability management and profitability measurement capabilities; the CCS suite of products includes call
center systems and the InformEnt data warehouse utilized for data warehousing and data mining; loan origination and tracking systems, including Fiserv Lending Solutions’ products such as

easy

LENDER

®

and UnFi PRO Mortgage offerings, MortgageServ, Integrated Loan Services including ILS
Quickclose and Lenders Financial Services; real estate settlement services offered by Integrated Loan Services and General American Corp; credit reporting services and systems through Chase Credit; the Fiserv LeMans auto leasing software products
and the Remarketing Services of America lease maturity systems and other products offered with regard to the termination of auto leases; and credit services offered by CBS Worldwide with its FACT 400 product and by Fiserv Credit Processing Services
with The

PLUS

System.

Fiserv offers these products and
services through multiple delivery channels primarily in the United States.

Health Plan Management Services

.

Fiserv, through its five health plan management operating units, Benefit Planners, Benesight, Fiserv Health, Harrington Benefit Services, and Wausau Benefits, provides a
variety of services for the administration of health plans to customers nationwide. These services include claim adjudication and payment, customer service, and other related services. The Company provides these services to more than 1,000 employers
that self-fund their health plans. In addition, Fiserv provides these services to other health plan sponsors such as insurance companies and HMO’s.

Complementary and Other Products

. Fiserv also offers additional complementary services to its health plan administration customers and others.
Fiserv offers care management services ranging from traditional services, such as utilization management and case management, to newer disease management, population health and prevention programs. Through 2003, these services were offered through
the Company’s Benefit Planners, Wausau Benefits and Value Check units. Beginning in 2004, Fiserv combined these services into a single operation, Avidyn Health, in an effort to offer a single source of integrated services. Through its Innoviant
business, the Company offers health plans prescription benefit management services. The Company also offers health plan sponsors services for risk management. Through its Third Party Solutions and Direct Comp RX businesses, Fiserv assists employers,
insurers and retail pharmacies with the management and processing of workers compensation prescriptions. Fiserv’s PPO One business provides technology services to Preferred Provider Organizations for data management and claim repricing.

Securities Processing and Trust Services.

Fiserv offers
high-quality, integrated securities clearing, execution, margin lending, stock lending, mutual fund processing, customer account processing and facilitation of traditional and Internet brokerage services through advanced technology that makes
executing trades faster, easier and more economical, focused customer service and economies of scale.



Through TradeStar Investments, Inc. (“TradeStar”), a registered brokerage firm headquartered in Houston, Texas
and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fiserv Securities, Inc., Fiserv’s clearing business, Fiserv also offers retail brokerage services at discount commission rates. TradeStar also markets Fiserv Securities’ processing and support services
throughout the United States. The Company’s clients include more than 500 broker-dealers and financial institutions, including full-service and discount broker-dealers (sometimes called “correspondents”), registered investment
advisers, municipal bond dealers, underwriters, retail brokerage operations of financial institutions, insurance firms and mutual fund companies.

Fiserv also provides a variety of administrative, custodial and processing services to individual investors, third party retirement plan and pension
administrators, investment advisors and financial planners and financial intermediaries. The specific products offered include self-directed retirement plan administration services and mutual fund custody trading services. First Trust Corporation,
Fiserv’s principal trust company subsidiary, is the largest independent trust company in the United States.

Specific product offerings to financial advisors, individual and business holders of IRAs, Roth IRAs and other self-directed retirement investment
vehicles include DATAlynx, providing trust and asset custody and back office services to investment advisers and other financial professionals; iFlex, a suite of 401(k) products for companies ranging in size up to 100 employees; OptionsPlus, a
self-directed investment window for participants in a retirement plan that is sold to large institutional insurance companies that offer record keeping services and investment options to individuals; TRUSTlynx custody and electronic trading support
services for daily valuation of retirement plan assets; and trust and custodial services that support the administration of self-directed retirement plans.

Financial information concerning the Company’s industry segments is included in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the
Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibit 13 and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Servicing the Market

The market for Fiserv account and transaction processing services and products has specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients
on software flexibility, product quality, service reliability, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, timely introduction of new products and features, cost effectiveness and service excellence. Through its multiple product offerings,
the Company believes it successfully services these market needs and requirements for clients ranging in size from start-ups to some of the largest financial services providers.

Fiserv believes that the position it holds as an independent, growth-oriented company dedicated to its business is an
advantage to its clients as compared to many of its competitors that are regional or local cooperatively owned organizations, data processing subsidiaries or affiliates of financial institutions or hardware vendors. Due to the economies of scale
gained through its broad market presence, Fiserv offers clients a selection of information management and data processing products and services designed to meet the specific needs of the ever-changing financial services industry. The Company
believes this independence and primary focus on the financial services industry helps its business development, client service and product support teams remain responsive to the technology needs of its market.

“The Client Comes First” is one of the Company’s founding
principles. It is a belief backed by a dedication to providing ongoing client service and support—no matter the client size.

The Company believes its commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps it retain clients. Fiserv conducts the majority of
its new and ongoing client training in its technology centers, where the Company maintains fully equipped demonstration and training facilities containing equipment used in the delivery of Fiserv services. Fiserv also provides local and on-site
training services to its clients.



Product Development

To meet the changing technology needs of the clients Fiserv serves, the Company continually develops, maintains and enhances
its systems. In 2003, product development expenses represented approximately 7% of the Company’s processing and services revenues.

The Fiserv network of development and financial information technology centers applies the shared expertise of multiple Fiserv teams to design, develop
and maintain specialized processing systems around its multiple technology platforms. The applications of its account processing systems meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the various international, national, regional or local market
specific financial service environments of the Company’s many clients.

Although multiple Fiserv development and financial technology centers share the Company’s variety of nationally developed and supported software, each center has specialized capabilities that enable it to offer
system application features and functions specialized to its client base. If the client’s requirements warrant, Fiserv purchases software programs from third parties that are interfaced with existing Fiserv systems. In developing its products,
Fiserv stresses interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of its clients.

Fiserv provides a dedicated solution that is designed, developed, maintained and enhanced according to each client’s goals for service quality, business development, asset and liability mix, local market
positioning and other user-defined parameters.

Intellectual Property

Fiserv regards its software as proprietary and utilizes a
combination of trade secrecy laws, internal security practices and employee non-disclosure agreements for protection. The Company believes that legal protection of its software, while important, is less significant than the knowledge and experience
of the Company’s management and personnel and their ability to develop, enhance and market new products and services. The Company believes that it holds all proprietary rights necessary for the conduct of its business.

Competition

Financial Institution Outsourcing, Systems and Services.

The market for information technology products and services
within the financial industry is highly competitive. The Company’s principal competitors include internal data processing departments, data processing affiliates of large companies or large computer hardware manufacturers, independent computer
service firms and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. Some of these competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources than the Company. Competition for in-house data processing and software
departments is intensified by the efforts of computer hardware vendors who encourage the growth of internal data centers.

Competitive factors for processing services include product quality, service reliability, product line comprehensiveness and integration, timely
introduction of new products and features, and price. The Company believes that it competes favorably in each of these categories. In addition, the Company believes that its position as an independent vendor, rather than as a cooperative, an
affiliate of a larger corporation or a hardware vendor, is a competitive advantage.

We compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products and services to financial institutions and other financial intermediaries, including Aurum Technologies, Inc., The Bisys Group, Inc., Fidelity
Information Services, Inc., Jack Henry and Associates, Inc. and Metavante Corporation. There has been significant consolidation among providers of information technology products and services to financial institutions, and we believe this
consolidation will continue in the future.



Health Plan Management Services.

The market for the Company’s administrative services is
highly competitive. The major competition for the Company’s services comes from national and regional health insurance companies selling administrative services only. Many of the Company’s competitors serve a larger number of customers,
have greater financial resources and proprietary products. In addition, the self-funded health plan market is typically broker-controlled, highly price sensitive and frequently placed out for competitive bid. Significant competitors of the Company
include Blue Cross organizations, United Health Group, Cigna and Aetna.

Securities Processing and Trust Services.

The Company competes with several larger companies in the securities clearing business. Specifically, the Bank of New York, FleetBoston Financial Corporation, Fidelity Investments, Bear
Stearns & Co. and others provide competitive services to those of the Company. Many of these competitors are engaged as well in the retail brokerage business and thus have a captive supply of clearing business that the Company does not have.

In the trust services area, several trust companies, the most
notable of which is Delaware Charter, compete with the Company in custody services for self-directed retirement accounts. In the provision of services to financial advisors and the mutual fund trading area, Charles Schwab & Co., which handles a
much larger volume of such trades, is the Company’s most significant competitor.

Government Regulation

The
Company’s data processing subsidiaries are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial
institutions, the Company’s data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Association, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and various state regulatory authorities. In addition, independent auditors annually review several of the Company’s operations to provide internal control evaluations for its clients’ auditors and regulators.

As trust companies under Colorado law, First Trust Corporation, Lincoln Trust
Company and Trust Industrial Bank, subsidiaries of the Company, are subject to the regulations of the Colorado Division of Banking. In 1991, First Trust Corporation received approval of its application for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
coverage of its customer deposits.

The Company’s
securities processing business, Fiserv Securities, Inc., is subject to extensive regulatory oversight principally by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (“NYSE”) and also by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., other stock exchanges of which it is a member and state agencies. From time to time, the NYSE and the SEC review, audit or investigate the Company’s securities processing business’
procedures and policies and sometimes require changes to those procedures resulting in higher costs or reduced flexibility in operating the Company’s business and, in some instances, the payment of fines.

The Company’s securities clearing and trust businesses are involved with
the mutual fund industry and the SEC has sought information from the affected businesses and the businesses have been cooperating fully with the SEC. At the current time, the Company does not anticipate any material adverse impact as a result of
such inquiries.

The Company’s subsidiaries
operating as part of the Company’s health plan management services group are subject to extensive regulatory oversight at both the federal and state levels. This regulatory scheme extends from annual reporting and licensing requirements imposed
by most of the states in which these companies operate and continues on to extensive regulatory compliance requirements regarding day to day operating policies and procedures for the various operating units. In addition, various customers require
periodic audits of their health plan administrators to confirm compliance with standards of performance and these subsidiaries may be required to forfeit a portion of their fees if they fail to meet the required performance levels.



Employees

Fiserv employs approximately 21,700 specialists in its information management centers and related product and service companies. This service support
network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, often complemented by management and other employees with direct experience in banks, credit unions, insurance companies and agencies, mortgage firms,
savings and other financial services business environments.

Fiserv employees provide expertise in sales and marketing; account management and client services; computer operations, network control and technical support; programming, software development, modification and maintenance; conversions and
client training; and financial planning and related support services.

In supporting international markets, Fiserv works closely with its clients to help ensure their continued success. Fiserv employees speak the same language as their clients and also understand the differences in the style of doing business,
as well as the financial products requirements and regulations unique to each client and its specific market.

Fiserv employees are not represented by a union, and there have been no work stoppages, strikes or organizational attempts. The service nature of the
Fiserv business makes its employees an important corporate asset, and while the market for qualified personnel is competitive, the Company does not experience significant difficulty with hiring or retaining its staff of top industry professionals.
In assessing companies to acquire, the quality and stability of the prospective company’s staff are emphasized.

Fiserv attributes its ability to attract and keep quality employees to, among other things, the Company’s growth and dedication to state-of-the-art
software development tools and hardware technologies.

Available
Information

The Company maintains a Website with the
address

www.fiserv.com

. The Company is not including the information contained on the Company’s Website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available free of charge
(other than an investor’s own Internet access charges) through its Website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after
the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 2. Properties

Fiserv
currently operates full-service data centers, software system development centers, and item processing and back-office support centers in over 150 cities. The Company owns 14 facilities; all other buildings in which centers are located are subject
to leases expiring through 2004 and beyond. In addition, the Company maintains its own national data communication network consisting of communications processors and leased lines.

Fiserv believes its facilities and equipment are generally well maintained and are in good operating condition. The Company
believes that the computer equipment it owns and its various facilities are adequate for its present and foreseeable business. Fiserv periodically upgrades its mainframe capability as needed. Fiserv contracts with multiple sites to provide
processing back-up in the event of a disaster and maintains duplicate tapes of data collected and software used in its business in locations away from the Company’s facilities.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

In the
normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are named as defendants in various lawsuits in which claims are asserted against the Company. The Company expects that the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such
lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Company.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of the Company.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of February 27, 2004, together with their ages, positions and business experience are described below:

Mr. Muma has been a
Director of the Company since it was established in 1984. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from 1984 to 1999, when he was named President and Chief Executive Officer.

Mr. Jensen has been Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
Treasurer, Assistant Secretary and a Director of the Company since it was established in 1984. He was named Senior Executive Vice President in 1986.

Mr. Balthasar was named Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in October 2002. He was President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Fiserv Financial Institution Group from 2000 to 2002. He served as Corporate Executive Vice President and President of the Savings and Community Bank Group from 1996 to 1999, when he was named President and Chief Operating Officer of
the Fiserv Financial Institution Outsourcing Group. Mr. Balthasar has been with Fiserv and its predecessor company since 1974.



Mr. Beriault was named President of the Fiserv Securities and Trust Services Group in April 2002. He was
President and Chief Operating Officer of the Fiserv Securities Group from 1999 to 2002. He served as Corporate Executive Vice President and President–Securities Processing Group from 1998 to 1999. From 1986 to 1998, Mr. Beriault was President
of Lincoln Trust Company, which was acquired by the Company in 1995.

Mr. Cox was named President of the Health Solutions Group of the Company in April 2003. He joined Fiserv in November 2001 with the acquisition of Trewit, Inc., where has was President. Prior to joining Trewit, Cox was partner in Lund
Koehler Cox & Arkema, a public accounting and consulting firm.

Mr. Craft was named Executive Vice President and Operating Group Chief Financial Officer of the Company in October 2002. He was Senior Vice President of Finance of the Fiserv Financial Institution Group from 2000 to 2002. He served as
Senior Vice President of Finance of the Savings and Community Bank Group from 1996 to 1999. Mr. Craft has been with Fiserv since 1985.

Mr. Damico was named President of the Item Processing Group of the Company in May 2003. He has held executive roles at Intria Items, Inc., a subsidiary of
Fiserv, since 1996, when he joined Intria as Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. Prior to joining Intria, Damico was Senior Vice President of Strategic Initiatives for the Fiserv item processing business in the United States.

Mr. Foy was named President of the Bank Servicing Group of the
Company in October 2002. He joined Fiserv in 2001 as President of the Direct Banking Division. Previously he was founder and CEO of Login & Learn, Inc. From 1978 to 1999, he was with M&I Data Services (Metavante) in a number of management
positions, serving as President of the Outsourcing Business Group from 1995 to 1999.

Mr. Neill was named President of the Credit Union and Industry Products Group of the Company in October 2000. He was President of the Products and Services Division and Group President of the Industry Products and
Services Group of the Company from 1993 to 2000.

Mr. Poskochil
was named President of the Bank Systems and eProducts Group of the Company in October 2002. He served as President of the Bank Systems and eProducts Division from 1999 to 2002. He joined ITI in 1978 and served in a number of capacities. In 1998 he
was named President and Chief Executive Officer of ITI, which had been acquired by Fiserv in 1995.

Mr. Puzniak was named President of the Lending Systems and Services Group of the Company in October 2002. He served as President of the Bank Servicing
Division II of the Company from 1995 to 2002, and as Senior Vice President of CBS Development from 1993 to 1995. Prior to joining Fiserv he held senior management positions at Citicorp Information Resources, Geac Computer and Financial Data Systems.

Mr. Schmelzer was named Group President, Marketing and Sales
in February 2002. He served as Corporate Executive Vice President, Marketing and Sales for the Company from 1992 to 2002. Prior to joining Fiserv, he was Director of Commercial Analysis for IBM.

Mr. Sprague has been Corporate Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary since 1994, and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company since 1999. He has been involved with the Company’s corporate and legal concerns since it was formed in 1984.

Mr. Wade was named President of the Insurance Solutions Group of the Company in April 2003. Prior to joining Fiserv, he was
Senior Vice President and a Vice President of Finance with Policy Management Systems Corporation from 1996 to 2001. Earlier in his career, he held executive positions at several firms, including Conita Technologies, Inc. and First Image Management
Company.



PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information pertaining thereto set forth under the captions
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –
Market Price Information” in the Company’s 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “Annual Report”).

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Selected Financial
Data” in the Annual Report.

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Annual Report.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Market Risk” in the Annual Report.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,” “Consolidated Balance Sheets,”
“Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” “Quarterly Financial Information” and “Independent
Auditors’ Report” in the Annual Report.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.

In accordance with Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the Company’s management evaluated, with the participation of the
Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and the Company’s Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Rule 13a-14(c) and 15d-14(c) under the Exchange Act) as of December 31, 2003. Based upon their evaluation of these disclosure controls and procedures, the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Executive Vice President and
Chief



Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2003 to ensure
that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, was made known to them by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this Annual Report on Form 10-K was being prepared.

Changes in internal controls over financial reporting.

There was no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2003 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information required by this item with respect to directors is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Matter 1. Election of Directors,” “Information with Respect
to Continuing Directors,” “Meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board of Directors,” “Nominations of Directors” and “Communications with Board of Directors” in the definitive Proxy Statement for
the Company’s 2004 annual meeting of shareholders (the “Proxy Statement”). The information required by this item with respect to executive officers appears at the end of Part I of this Form 10-K. The information required by this item
with respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by directors and officers is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in the Proxy Statement.

The Company has
adopted a Code of Conduct that applies to all of the Company’s employees, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and other persons performing similar functions. The Company has posted a copy of
the Code of Conduct on the “Company/Board of Directors” section of its website at

www.fiserv.com

. The Company intends to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 10 of Form 8-K regarding amendments to, or waivers from, the
Code of Conduct by posting such information on the “Company/Board of Directors” section of its website at

www.fiserv.com

. The Company is not including the information contained on its website as part of, or incorporating it by
reference into, this report.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Compensation of Directors,” “Compensation of Executive Officers,” “Agreements with Executive
Officers” and “Stock Price Performance Graph” in the Proxy Statement.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Matter 3. Approval of Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan, as Amended and Restated – Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the Proxy Statement.



Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Not applicable.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Matter 2. The Ratification of the Selection of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Independent
Auditors of the Company for 2004” in the Proxy Statement.

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) (1) Financial Statements:

The consolidated financial statements of the Company as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, together with the report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP, dated January 30,
2004, appear on pages 17 through 45 of the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders and Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are incorporated herein by reference.

(a) (2) Financial Statement Schedule:

The following financial statement schedule of the Company and related independent auditors’ report are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

All other schedules
are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

The Company filed a report on Form 8-K under Items 7 and 12, dated October 21, 2003, reporting the announcement of the Company’s earnings for the
third quarter of 2003.

The Company filed a report on Form 8-K
under Items 7 and 12, dated January 27, 2004, reporting the announcement of the Company’s earnings for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003.

(c) Exhibits:

The exhibits listed in the accompanying exhibit index are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on February 27, 2004.

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following person on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 27, 2004.



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of
Directors and Shareholders of Fiserv, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated
financial statements of Fiserv, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, and have issued our report thereon dated January 30, 2004, which report expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph as to the adoption in 2002 of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets;” such consolidated financial statements and report are
included in your 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of Fiserv, Inc., listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule
is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

SCHEDULE II

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Year Ended

December
31,

Beginning

Balance

Charged

to Expense

Write-offs

Acquired

Allowance

Balance


$

13,168,000

$

5,089,000

$

(4,479,000

)

$

12,106,000

$

25,884,000


14,703,000

2,527,000

(4,248,000

)

186,000

13,168,000


16,001,000

963,000

(3,311,000

)

1,050,000

14,703,000



EXHIBIT INDEX



EXHIBIT INDEX

(continued)

20