ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS



Our business activities and the value of our securities are
    subject to significant hazards and risks, including those
    described below. If any of such events should occur, our
    business, financial condition, liquidityand/orresults of operations could be materially harmed, and holders
    and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their
    investments. Additional risks relating to our securities may be
    included in the prospectuses for securities we issue in the
    future.



Future
    economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets
    may materially adversely impact our operating
    results.



The U.S. and other world economies are slowly recovering
    from a global financial crisis and recession that began in 2008.
    Growth has resumed but is modest and at an unsteady rate. There
    are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from
    the recession and credit market crisis, including a future
    global economic growth rate that is slower than in the years
    leading up to the crisis, and more volatility may occur before a
    sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. Global economic
    growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including
    fossil fuels. A lower future economic growth rate could result
    in decreased demand growth for our crude oil and natural gas
    production as well as lower commodity prices, which would reduce
    our cash flows from operations and our profitability.



In addition, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
    Development (OECD) has encouraged countries with large federal
    budget deficits to initiate deficit reduction measures. Such
    measures, if they are undertaken too rapidly, could further
    undermine economic recovery and slow growth by reducing demand.





Crude
    oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a substantial
    reduction in these prices could adversely affect our results and
    the price of our common stock.



Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth depend
    highly upon the prices we receive for our crude oil and natural
    gas production. Historically, the markets for crude oil and
    natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be
    volatile in the future. For example, the NYMEX daily settlement
    price for the prompt month oil contract in 2010 ranged from a
    high of $92.89 per barrel to a low of $68.01 per barrel. The
    NYMEX daily settlement price for the prompt month natural gas
    contract in 2010 ranged from a high of $6.01 per MMBtu to a low
    of $3.29 per MMBtu. The market prices for crude oil and natural
    gas depend on factors beyond our control. These factors include
    demand for crude oil and natural gas, which fluctuates with
    changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors,
    including:



•worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas;•actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations;•political conditions and events (including instability or armed
    conflict) in crude oil or natural gas producing regions;•the level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories;•the price and level of imported foreign crude oil and natural
    gas;•the price and availability of alternative fuels, including coal
    and biofuels;•the availability of pipeline capacity and infrastructure;•the availability of crude oil transportation and refining
    capacity;•weather conditions;•electricity generation;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and•the overall economic environment.



Significant declines in crude oil and natural gas prices for an
    extended period may have the following effects on our business:



•limiting our financial condition, liquidity,and/orability to fund planned capital expenditures and operations;•reducing the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can
    produce economically;•causing us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects;•reducing our revenues, operating income and cash flows;•limiting our access to sources of capital, such as equity and
    long-term debt;•a reduction in the carrying value of our crude oil and natural
    gas properties; or•a reduction in the carrying value of goodwill.



We recorded asset impairment charges during 2008 and 2009. No
    impairment charges were recorded during 2010. If commodity
    prices decline, there could be additional impairments of our oil
    and gas assets or other investments or an impairment of goodwill.



Our
    ability to sell natural gas or oil and/or receive market prices
    for our natural gas or oil may be adversely affected by pipeline
    and gathering system capacity constraints and various
    transportation interruptions.



A portion of our natural gas and oil production in any region
    may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous
    reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents,
    loss of pipeline or gathering system





access, field labor issues or strikes, or capital constraints
    that limit the ability of third parties to construct gathering
    systems, processing facilities or interstate pipelines to
    transport our production, or we might voluntarily curtail
    production in response to market conditions. If a substantial
    amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it
    could temporarily adversely affect our cash flow.



Weather
    and climate may have a significant adverse impact on our
    revenues and productivity.



Demand for oil and natural gas are, to a significant degree,
    dependent on weather and climate, which impact the price we
    receive for the commodities we produce. In addition, our
    exploration and development activities and equipment can be
    adversely affected by severe weather, such as hurricanes in the
    Gulf of Mexico or cyclones offshore Australia, which may cause a
    loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost
    or damaged equipment. Our planning for normal climatic
    variation, insurance programs, and emergency recovery plans may
    inadequately mitigate the effects of such weather, and not all
    such effects can be predicted, eliminated or insured against.



Our
    operations involve a high degree of operational risk,
    particularly risk of personal injury, damage or loss of
    equipment and environmental accidents.



Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in the
    drilling, production and transportation of crude oil and natural
    gas, including:



•drilling well blowouts, explosions and cratering;•pipeline ruptures and spills;•fires;•formations with abnormal pressures;•equipment malfunctions; and•hurricanes and/or cyclones, which could affect our operations in
    areas such as on- and offshore the Gulf Coast and Australia, and
    other natural disasters.



Failure or loss of equipment, as the result of equipment
    malfunctions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, could
    result in property damages, personal injury, environmental
    pollution and other damages for which we could be liable.
    Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence, such as a
    well blowout, explosion or fire at a location where our
    equipment and services are used, may result in substantial
    claims for damages. Ineffective containment of a drilling well
    blowout or pipeline rupture could result in extensive
    environmental pollution and substantial remediation expenses. If
    a significant amount of our production is interrupted, our
    containment efforts prove to be ineffective or litigation arises
    as the result of a catastrophic occurrence, our cash flow and,
    in turn, our results of operations could be materially and
    adversely affected.



The
    Devon and Mariner transactions have increased our exposure to
    Gulf of Mexico operations.



Our recent acquisitions of oil and gas assets in offshore Gulf
    of Mexico from Devon Energy Corporation and Mariner Energy, Inc.
    have increased our exposure to offshore Gulf of Mexico
    operations. Greater offshore concentration proportionately
    increases risks from delays or higher costs common to offshore
    activity, including severe weather, availability of specialized
    equipment and compliance with environmental and other laws and
    regulations.



In addition, as a result of the current lack of drilling
    activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and slowdown of
    drilling activity on the Gulf of Mexico shelf caused by the
    regulatory response to the Deepwater Horizon incident, drilling
    equipment and oil field services companies may decide to exit
    the Gulf of Mexico, making such services less availableand/ormore
    expensive once drilling activities are allowed to fully resume.





Any
    additional deepwater drilling laws and regulations, delays in
    the processing and approval of permits and other related
    developments in the Gulf of Mexico as well as our other
    locations resulting from the Deepwater Horizon incident could
    adversely affect Apache’s business.



As has been widely reported, on April 20, 2010, a fire and
    explosion occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig
    Deepwater Horizon, which lead to a significant oil spill that
    affected the Gulf of Mexico. In response to this incident, the
    BOEMRE ceased issuing drilling permits pursuant to a series of
    moratoria, and all deepwater drilling activities in progress
    were suspended. Although the moratoria have been lifted, the DOI
    has not issued any permits related to the drilling of new
    exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico as of
    January 31, 2011. In 2010 the DOI issued new rules designed
    to improve drilling and workplace safety, and various
    Congressional committees began pursuing legislation to regulate
    drilling activities and increase liability.



In January 2011 the President’s National Commission on the
    BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling released
    its report, recommending that the federal government require
    additional regulation and an increase in liability caps. The
    European Commission has recommended that new legislation be
    enacted to enhance the safety of offshore oil and gas
    activities. Additional legislation or regulation is being
    discussed which could require companies operating in the Gulf of
    Mexico to establish and maintain a higher level of financial
    responsibility under its Certificate of Financial
    Responsibility, a certificate required by the Oil Pollution Act
    of 1990 which evidences a company’s financial ability to
    pay for cleanup and damages caused by oil spills. There have
    also been discussions regarding the establishment of a new
    industry mutual insurance fund in which companies would be
    required to participate and which would be available to pay for
    consequential damages arising from an oil spill. Theseand/orother
    legislative or regulatory changes could require us to maintain a
    certain level of financial strength and may reduce our financial
    flexibility.



The BOEMRE is expected to continue to issue new safety and
    environmental guidelines or regulations for drilling in the Gulf
    of Mexico, and other regulatory agencies could potentially issue
    new safety and environmental guidelines or regulations in other
    geographic regions, and may take other steps that could increase
    the costs of exploration and production, reduce the area of
    operations and result in permitting delays. We are monitoring
    legislation and regulatory developments; however, it is
    difficult to predict the ultimate impact of any new guidelines,
    regulations or legislation. A prolonged suspension of drilling
    activity in the U.S. and abroad and new regulations and
    increased liability for companies operating in this sector could
    adversely affect Apache’s operations in the U.S. Gulf
    of Mexico as well as in our other locations.



Our
    commodity price risk management and trading activities may
    prevent us from benefiting fully from price increases and may
    expose us to other risks.



To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities
    to protect ourselves from commodity price declines, we may be
    prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases
    above the levels of the derivative instruments used to manage
    price risk. In addition, our hedging arrangements may expose us
    to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances,
    including instances in which:



•our production falls short of the hedged volumes;•there is a widening of price-basis differentials between
    delivery points for our production and the delivery point
    assumed in the hedge arrangement;•the counterparties to our hedging or other price risk management
    contracts fail to perform under those arrangements; or•a sudden unexpected event materially impacts oil and natural gas
    prices.



The
    credit risk of financial institutions could adversely affect
    us.



We have exposure to different counterparties, and we have
    entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial
    services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks,
    insurance companies, other investment funds and other
    institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the
    event of default of our counterparty. Deterioration in the
    credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and
    potential counterparties and





affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us
    and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us.
    We have exposure to financial institutions in the form of
    derivative transactions in connection with our hedges and
    insurance companies in the form of claims under our policies. In
    addition, if any lender under our credit facility is unable to
    fund its commitment, our liquidity will be reduced by an amount
    up to the aggregate amount of such lender’s commitment
    under our credit facility.



We are
    exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our
    receivables.



We are exposed to risk of financial loss from trade, joint
    venture, joint interest billing and other receivables. We sell
    our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs to a variety of purchasers.
    As operator, we pay expenses and bill our non-operating partners
    for their respective shares of costs. Some of our purchasers and
    non-operating partners may experience liquidity problems and may
    not be able to meet their financial obligations. Nonperformance
    by a trade creditor or non-operating partner could result in
    significant financial losses.



A
    downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost
    of and ability to access capital.



We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in
    the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings
    include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and
    near-term and long-term production growth opportunities.
    Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix and
    commodity pricing levels and others are also considered by the
    rating agencies. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our
    ability to access debt markets in the future, increase the cost
    of future debt and potentially require the Company to post
    letters of credit for certain obligations.



Market
    conditions may restrict our ability to obtain funds for future
    development and working capital needs, which may limit our
    financial flexibility.



During 2010 credit markets recovered but remain vulnerable to
    unpredictable shocks. We have a significant development project
    inventory and an extensive exploration portfolio, which will
    require substantial future investment. Weand/orour
    partners may need to seek financing in order to fund these or
    other future activities. Our future access to capital, as well
    as that of our partners and contractors, could be limited if the
    debt or equity markets are constrained. This could significantly
    delay development of our property interests.



Our
    ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to
    limitations.



The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject
    to the discretion of our board of directors, which considers,
    among other factors, our operating results, overall financial
    condition, credit-risk considerations and capital requirements,
    as well as general business and market conditions. Our board of
    directors is not required to declare dividends on our common
    stock and may decide not to declare dividends.



Any indentures and other financing agreements that we enter into
    in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our
    capital stock, including common stock. In the event that any of
    our indentures or other financing agreements in the future
    restrict our ability to pay dividends in cash on the mandatory
    convertible preferred stock, we may be unable to pay dividends
    in cash on the common stock unless we can refinance amounts
    outstanding under those agreements. In addition, under Delaware
    law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from
    “surplus,” which is defined as the amount by which our
    total assets exceeds the sum of our total liabilities, including
    contingent liabilities, and the amount of our capital; if there
    is no surplus, cash dividends on capital stock may only be paid
    from our net profits for the then currentand/orthe
    preceding fiscal year. Further, even if we are permitted under
    our contractual obligations and Delaware law to pay cash
    dividends on common stock, we may not have sufficient cash to
    pay dividends in cash on our common stock.



Discoveries
    or acquisitions of additional reserves are needed to avoid a
    material decline in reserves and production.



The production rate from oil and gas properties generally
    declines as reserves are depleted, while relatedper-unitproduction costs generally increase as a result of decreasing
    reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, unless we add
    reserves through exploration and development activities or,
    through engineering studies,





identify additional behind-pipe zones, secondary recovery
    reserves or tertiary recovery reserves, or acquire additional
    properties containing proved reserves, our estimated proved
    reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced.
    Future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent
    upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional
    reserves on an economic basis. Furthermore, if oil or gas prices
    increase, our cost for additional reserves could also increase.



We may
    not realize an adequate return on wells that we
    drill.



Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the
    risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or
    gas reservoirs. The wells we drill or participate in may not be
    productive, and we may not recover all or any portion of our
    investment in those wells. The seismic data and other
    technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior
    to drilling a well that crude or natural gas is present or may
    be produced economically. The costs of drilling, completing and
    operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may
    be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of
    factors including, but not limited to:



•unexpected drilling conditions;•pressure or irregularities in formations;•equipment failures or accidents;•fires, explosions, blowouts and surface cratering;•marine risks such as capsizing, collisions and hurricanes;•other adverse weather conditions; and•increase in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, drilling rigs and equipment.



Future drilling activities may not be successful and, if
    unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our
    future results of operations and financial condition. While all
    drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these
    risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes
    or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.



Material
    differences between the estimated and actual timing of critical
    events may affect the completion and commencement of production
    from development projects.



We are involved in several large development projects whose
    completion may be delayed beyond our anticipated completion
    dates. Our projects may be delayed by project approvals from
    joint venture partners, timely issuances of permits and licenses
    by governmental agencies, weather conditions, manufacturing and
    delivery schedules of critical equipment, and other unforeseen
    events. Delays and differences between estimated and actual
    timing of critical events may adversely affect our large
    development projects and our ability to participate in large
    scale development projects in the future.



We may
    fail to fully identify potential problems related to acquired
    reserves or to properly estimate those reserves.



Although we perform a review of properties that we acquire that
    we believe is consistent with industry practices, such reviews
    are inherently incomplete. It generally is not feasible to
    review in depth every individual property involved in each
    acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on the
    higher-value properties and will sample the remainder. However,
    even a detailed review of records and properties may not
    necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it
    permit us as a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the
    properties to assess fully and accurately their deficiencies and
    potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every
    well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater
    contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an
    inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we
    often assume certain environmental and other risks and
    liabilities in connection with acquired properties. There are
    numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
    proved oil and gas reserves and future production rates and
    costs with respect to acquired properties, and actual results
    may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. In
    addition, there can be no assurance





that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our
    operating results, particularly during the periods in which the
    operations of acquired businesses are being integrated into our
    ongoing operations.



The
    Mariner and BP transactions have exposed us to additional risks
    and uncertainties with respect to the acquired businesses and
    their operations.



Although the acquired Mariner and BP businesses are generally
    subject to risks similar to those to which we are subject in our
    existing businesses, the Mariner and BP transactions may
    increase these risks. For example, the increase in the scale of
    our operations may increase our operational risks. The publicity
    associated with the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico resulting
    from the fire and explosion onboard the Deepwater Horizon, which
    was under contract to BP, may cause regulatory agencies to
    scrutinize our operations more closely. This additional scrutiny
    may adversely affect our operations.



We may
    have difficulty combining the operations of both Mariner and the
    BP properties, and the anticipated benefits of these
    transactions may not be achieved.



Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Mariner and BP
    transactions will depend in part upon whether we can
    successfully integrate the operations of Mariner and the BP
    properties with ours. Our ability to integrate the operations of
    Mariner and the BP properties successfully will depend on our
    ability to monitor operations, coordinate exploration and
    development activities, control costs, attract, retain and
    assimilate qualified personnel and maintain compliance with
    regulatory requirements. The difficulties of integrating the
    operations of Mariner and the BP properties may be increased by
    the necessity of combining organizations with distinct cultures
    and widely dispersed operations. The integration of operations
    following these transactions will require the dedication of
    management and other personnel, which may distract their
    attention from theday-to-daybusiness of the combined enterprise and prevent us from
    realizing benefits from other opportunities. Completing the
    integration process may be more expensive than anticipated, and
    we cannot assure you that we will be able to effect the
    integration of these operations smoothly or efficiently or that
    the anticipated benefits of the transactions will be achieved.



Several
    significant matters in the BP Acquisition were not resolved
    before closing.



Because of the relatively short time period between signing the
    BP Purchase Agreements and the closing of the acquisition of the
    BP properties, several significant matters commonly resolved
    prior to closing such an acquisition have been reserved for
    after closing. We did not have sufficient time before closing on
    the BP Properties to conduct a full title review and
    environmental assessment. Although remedies are limited for
    title, we may discover adverse environmental or other conditions
    after closing and after the time periods specified in the BP
    Purchase Agreements during which we may be able to seek, in
    certain cases, indemnification from or cure of the defect or
    adverse condition by BP for such matters. For example, Apache
    Canada Ltd. has asserted a claim against BP Canada arising from
    the acquisition of certain Canadian properties under the BP
    Purchase Agreements. The dispute centers on Apache Canada
    Ltd.’s identification of Alleged Adverse Conditions, as
    that term is defined in the BP Purchase Agreements, and more
    specifically, the contention that liabilities associated with
    such conditions were retained by BP Canada as seller. There can
    be no assurance that we will prevail on this or any future claim
    against BP.



The BP
    Acquisition and/or our liabilities could be adversely affected
    in the event one or more of the BP entities become the subject
    of a bankruptcy case.



In light of the extensive costs and liabilities related to the
    oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, there was public
    speculation as to whether one or more of the BP entities could
    become the subject of a case or proceeding under Title 11
    of the United States Code or any other relevant insolvency law
    or similar law (which we collectively refer to as
    “Insolvency Laws”). In the event that one or more of
    the BP entities were to become the subject of such a case or
    proceeding, a court may find that the BP Purchase Agreements are
    executory contracts, in which case such BP entities may, subject
    to relevant Insolvency Laws, have the right to reject the
    agreements and refuse to perform their future obligations under
    them. In this event, our ability to enforce our rights under the
    BP Purchase Agreements could be adversely affected.





Additionally, in a case or proceeding under relevant Insolvency
    Laws, a court may find that the sale of the BP Properties
    constitutes a constructive fraudulent conveyance that should be
    set aside. While the tests for determining whether a transfer of
    assets constitutes a constructive fraudulent conveyance vary
    among jurisdictions, such a determination generally requires
    that the seller received less than a reasonably equivalent value
    in exchange for such transfer or obligation and the seller was
    insolvent at the time of the transaction, or was rendered
    insolvent or left with unreasonably small capital to meet its
    anticipated business needs as a result of the transaction. The
    applicable time periods for such a finding also vary among
    jurisdictions, but generally range from two to six years. If a
    court were to make such a determination in a proceeding under
    relevant Insolvency Laws, our rights under the BP Purchase
    Agreements, and our rights to the BP Properties, could be
    adversely affected.



Crude
    oil and natural gas reserves are estimates, and actual
    recoveries may vary significantly.



There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude
    oil and natural gas reserves and their value, including factors
    that are beyond our control. Reservoir engineering is a
    subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of
    crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact
    manner. In accordance with the SEC’s revisions to rules for
    oil and gas reserves reporting, which we adopted effective
    December 31, 2009, our reserves estimates are based on12-monthaverage prices, except where contractual arrangements exist;
    therefore, reserves quantities will change when actual prices
    increase or decrease. The estimates depend on a number of
    factors and assumptions that may vary considerably from actual
    results, including:



•historical production from the area compared with production
    from other areas;•the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies,
    including the impact of the SEC’s new oil and gas company
    reserves reporting requirements;•future operating costs;•severance and excise taxes;•development costs; and•workover and remediation costs.



For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable
    quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any
    particular group of properties, classifications of those
    reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future
    net cash flows expected from them prepared by different
    engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may
    vary substantially. Accordingly, reserves estimates may be
    subject to upward or downward adjustment, and actual production,
    revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely
    will vary, possibly materially, from estimates.



Additionally, because some of our reserves estimates are
    calculated using volumetric analysis, those estimates are less
    reliable than the estimates based on a lengthy production
    history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a
    reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an
    estimation of the area covered by the structure. In addition,
    realization or recognition of proved undeveloped reserves will
    depend on our development schedule and plans. A change in future
    development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause
    the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as
    proved.



Certain
    of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that
    will expire over the next several years unless production is
    established on units containing the acreage.



A sizeable portion of our acreage is currently undeveloped.
    Unless production in paying quantities is established on units
    containing certain of these leases during their terms, the
    leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right
    to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these
    areas are subject to change based upon various factors,
    including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the
    availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs,
    availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering
    system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory
    approvals.





We may
    incur significant costs related to environmental
    matters.



As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties, we
    are subject to various federal, provincial, state, local and
    foreign country laws and regulations relating to discharge of
    materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws
    and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the
    lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of pollutionclean-upresulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for
    pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of
    operations in affected areas. Our efforts to limit our exposure
    to such liability and cost may prove inadequate and result in
    significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In
    addition, it is possible that the increasingly strict
    requirements imposed by environmental laws and enforcement
    policies could require us to make significant capital
    expenditures. Such capital expenditures could adversely impact
    our cash flows and our financial condition.



Our
    North American operations are subject to governmental risks that
    may impact our operations.



Our North American operations have been, and at times in the
    future may be, affected by political developments and by
    federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations such
    as restrictions on production, changes in taxes, royalties and
    other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies,
    price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection
    laws and regulations. New political developments, laws and
    regulations may adversely impact our results on operations.



Pending
    regulations related to emissions and the impact of any changes
    in climate could adversely impact our business.



Legislation is pending in a number of countries where Apache
    operates including Australia, and Canada, the United Kingdom,
    that, if enacted, could tax or assess some form of greenhouse
    gas (GHG) related fees on Company operations and could lead to
    increased operating expenses. Such legislation, if enacted,
    could also potentially cause the Company to make significant
    capital investments for infrastructure modifications. Through
    2011, three of the jurisdictions in which the Company has
    operations, Alberta and British Columbia, Canada and the United
    Kingdom (European Union), have enacted legislation which exposes
    the Company to financial payments related to GHG emissions from
    production facilities. This exposure has not been material to
    date.



Furthermore, various governmental entities in countries where
    Apache operates have discussed regulatory initiatives that
    could, if adopted, require the Company to modify existing or
    planned infrastructure to meet GHG emissions performance
    standards and necessitate significant capital expenditures. At
    some level, the cost of performance standards may force the
    early retirement of smaller production facilities, which in
    aggregate may have a material adverse effect on Apache’s
    business.



Several of the countries we operate in are signatories to
    current international accords related to climate change, such as
    the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on
    Climate Change. Given the current implementation of the Kyoto
    Protocol, we do not expect it to have a material impact on the
    Company.



Several indirect consequences of regulation and business trends
    have potential to impact us. Taxes or fees on carbon emissions
    could lead to decreased demand for fossil fuels. Consumers may
    prefer alternative products and unknown technological
    innovations may make oil and gas less significant energy sources.



In the event the predictions for rising temperatures and sea
    levels suggested by reports of the United Nations
    Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change do transpire, we do
    not believe those events by themselves are likely to impact the
    Company’s assets or operations. However, any increase in
    severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our
    assets and operations.



The
    proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2012 includes
    certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will
    have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations, and cash flows.



On February 14, 2011, the Office of Management and Budget
    released a summary of the proposed U.S. federal budget for
    fiscal year 2012. The proposed budget repeals many tax
    incentives and deductions that are currently used by
    U.S. oil and gas companies and imposes new taxes. The
    provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully





deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; increases
    in the taxation of foreign source income; repeal of the
    manufacturing tax deduction for oil and natural gas companies;
    and an increase in the geological and geophysical amortization
    period for independent producers. Should some or all of these
    provisions become law, our taxes will increase, potentially
    significantly, which would have a negative impact on our net
    income and cash flows. This could also cause us to reduce our
    drilling activities in the U.S. Since none of these
    proposals have yet to be voted on or become law, we do not know
    the ultimate impact these proposed changes may have on our
    business.



Proposed
    federal regulation regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase
    our operating and capital costs.



Several proposals are before the U.S. Congress that, if
    implemented, would either prohibit the practice of hydraulic
    fracturing or subject the process to regulation under the Safe
    Drinking Water Act. We routinely use fracturing techniques in
    the U.S. and other regions to expand the available space
    for natural gas and oil to migrate toward the well-bore. It is
    typically done at substantial depths in very tight formations.



Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final
    outcome of the legislation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any
    new federal restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be
    imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in
    increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions
    in the U.S.



A
    deterioration of conditions in Egypt or changes in the economic
    and political environment in Egypt could have an adverse impact
    on our business.



In 2010 our operations in Egypt contributed 28 percent of
    our production revenue, 25 percent of total production and
    10 percent of total estimated proved reserves. In 2010 we
    sold all of our Egyptian gas production and 34 percent of
    our Egyptian oil production to the Egyptian General Petroleum
    Company (EGPC), the Egyptian state-owned oil company, and sold
    the remainder in the export market. As a result of political
    unrest, protests, riots, street demonstrations and acts of civil
    disobedience that began on January 25, 2011, in the
    Egyptian capital of Cairo, former Egyptian president Hosni
    Mubarak has stepped down, effective February 11, 2011. The
    Egyptian Supreme Council of the Armed Forces is now in power. On
    February 13, 2011, the Council announced that the
    constitution would be suspended, both houses of parliament would
    be dissolved, and that the military would rule for six months
    until elections can be held. Further changes in the political,
    economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the
    Egyptian government, such as changes in laws or regulations,
    export restrictions, expropriation of our assets or resource
    nationalization,and/orforced renegotiation or modification of our existing contracts
    with EGPC could materially and adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.



International
    operations have uncertain political, economic and other
    risks.



Our operations outside North America are based primarily in
    Egypt, Australia, the United Kingdom and Argentina. On a barrel
    equivalent basis, approximately 52 percent of our 2010
    production was outside North America and approximately
    30 percent of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves on
    December 31, 2010 were located outside North America. As a
    result, a significant portion of our production and resources
    are subject to the increased political and economic risks and
    other factors associated with international operations
    including, but not limited to:



•general strikes and civil unrest;•the risk of war, acts of terrorism, expropriation and resource
    nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of
    existing contracts;•import and export regulations;•taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and
    retroactive tax claims, and investment restrictions;•price control;•transportation regulations and tariffs;•constrained natural gas markets dependent on demand in a single
    or limited geographical area;







•exchange controls, currency fluctuations, devaluation or other
    activities that limit or disrupt markets and restrict payments
    or the movement of funds;•laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade,
    including trade sanctions;•the possibility of being subject to exclusive jurisdiction of
    foreign courts in connection with legal disputes relating to
    licenses to operate and concession rights in countries where we
    currently operate;•the possible inability to subject foreign persons, especially
    foreign oil ministries and national oil companies, to the
    jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and•difficulties in enforcing our rights against a governmental
    agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign
    sovereignty over international operations.



Foreign countries have occasionally asserted rights to oil and
    gas properties through border disputes. If a country claims
    superior rights to oil and gas leases or concessions granted to
    us by another country, our interests could decrease in value or
    be lost. Even our smaller international assets may affect our
    overall business and results of operations by distracting
    management’s attention from our more significant assets.
    Various regions of the world in which we operate have a history
    of political and economic instability. This instability could
    result in new governments or the adoption of new policies that
    might result in a substantially more hostile attitude toward
    foreign investments such as ours. In an extreme case, such a
    change could result in termination of contract rights and
    expropriation of our assets. This could adversely affect our
    interests and our future profitability.



The impact that future terrorist attacks or regional hostilities
    may have on the oil and gas industry in general, and on our
    operations in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty
    surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign
    may affect operations in unpredictable ways, including
    disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and
    the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including
    pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and
    refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties
    of, an act of terror or war. We may be required to incur
    significant costs in the future to safeguard our assets against
    terrorist activities.



In recent weeks civil unrest, which started in Tunisia, has
    spread to the Middle East. Prolongedand/orwidespread regional conflict in the Middle East could have the
    following results, among others:



•volatility in the global crude prices, which could negatively
    impact the global economy, resulting in slower economic growth
    rates, which could reduce demand for our products;•negative impact on the world’s crude oil supply if
    transportation avenues are disrupted, leading to further
    commodity price volatility;•damage to or destruction of our wells, production facilities,
    receiving terminals or other operating assets;•inability of our service equipment providers to deliver items
    necessary for us to conduct our operations in the Middle East;•lack of availability of drilling rigs, oil field equipment or
    services if third party providers decide to exit the region.



Our
    operations are sensitive to currency rate
    fluctuations.



Our operations are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and
    the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the British
    Pound. Our financial statements, presented in U.S. dollars,
    are affected by foreign currency fluctuations through both
    translation risk and transaction risk. Volatility in exchange
    rates may adversely affect our results of operation,
    particularly through the weakening of the U.S. dollar
    relative to other currencies.



We
    face strong industry competition that may have a significant
    negative impact on our result of operations.



Strong competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas
    exploration and production industry. We compete with major
    integrated and other independent oil and gas companies for
    acquisition of oil and gas leases, properties and





reserves, equipment and labor required to explore, develop and
    operate those properties and marketing of oil and natural gas
    production. Crude oil and natural gas prices impact the costs of
    properties available for acquisition and the number of companies
    with the financial resources to pursue acquisition
    opportunities. Many of our competitors have financial and other
    resources substantially larger than we possess and have
    established strategic long-term positions and maintain strong
    governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new
    entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage
    in bidding for drilling rights. In addition, many of our larger
    competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to
    factors that affect demand for oil and natural gas production,
    such as fluctuating worldwide commodity prices and levels of
    production, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and
    the application of government regulations. We also compete in
    attracting and retaining personnel, including geologists,
    geophysicists, engineers and other specialists. These
    competitive pressures may have a significant negative impact on
    our results of operations.



Our
    insurance policies do not cover all of the risks we face, which
    could result in significant financial exposure.



Exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas can
    be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other events such
    as blowouts, cratering, fire and explosion and loss of well
    control which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or
    production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or
    damage to property and the environment. Our international
    operations are also subject to political risk. The insurance
    coverage that we maintain against certain losses or liabilities
    arising from our operations may be inadequate to cover any such
    resulting liability; moreover, insurance is not available to us
    against all operational risks.



ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED
    SEC STAFF COMMENTS



As of December 31, 2010, we did not have any unresolved
    comments from the SEC staff that were received 180 or more days
    prior to year-end.



ITEM 3.LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS



The information set forth under “Legal Matters” and
    “Environmental Matters” in Note 8 —
    Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of
    thisForm 10-Kis incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 4.[REMOVED
    AND RESERVED]





PART II



ITEM 5.MARKET
    FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
    MATTERS



During 2010 Apache common stock, par value $0.625 per share, was
    traded on the New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges and the
    NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “APA.” The
    table below provides certain information regarding our common
    stock for 2010 and 2009. Prices were obtained from The New York
    Stock Exchange, Inc. Composite Transactions Reporting System.
    Per-share prices and quarterly dividends shown below have been
    rounded to the indicated decimal place.



20102009Price RangeDividends Per SharePrice RangeDividends Per ShareHighLowDeclaredPaidHighLowDeclaredPaidFirst Quarter$108.92$95.15$.15$.15$88.07$51.03$.15$.15Second Quarter111.0083.55.15.1587.0461.60.15.15Third Quarter99.0981.94.15.1595.7765.02.15.15Fourth Quarter120.8096.51.15.15106.4688.06.15.15





The closing price of our common stock, as reported on the New
    York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Reporting System for
    January 31, 2011 (last trading day of the month), was
    $119.36 per share. As of January 31, 2011, there were
    382,752,217 shares of our common stock outstanding held by
    approximately 5,700 stockholders of record and approximately
    440,000 beneficial owners.



We have paid cash dividends on our common stock for 46
    consecutive years through December 31, 2010. When, and if,
    declared by our Board of Directors, future dividend payments
    will depend upon our level of earnings, financial requirements
    and other relevant factors.



In 1995, under our stockholder rights plan, each of our common
    stockholders received a dividend of one preferred stock purchase
    right (a “right”) for each 2.310 outstanding shares of
    common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock dividends and atwo-for-onestock split) that the stockholder owned. These rights were
    originally scheduled to expire on January 31, 2006.
    Effective as of that date, the rights were reset to one right
    per share of common stock, and the expiration was extended to
    January 31, 2016. Unless the rights have been previously
    redeemed, all shares of Apache common stock are issued with
    rights, which trade automatically with our shares of common
    stock. For a description of the rights, please refer to
    Note 7 — Capital Stock in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV,
    Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.



Information concerning securities authorized for issuance under
    equity compensation plans is set forth under the caption
    “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the proxy
    statement relating to the Company’s 2010 annual meeting of
    stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.





The following stock price performance graph is intended to allow
    review of stockholder returns, expressed in terms of the
    appreciation of the Company’s common stock relative to two
    broad-based stock performance indices. The information is
    included for historical comparative purposes only and should not
    be considered indicative of future stock performance. The graph
    compares the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total
    stockholder return on the Company’s common stock with the
    cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s
    Composite 500 Stock Index and of the Dow Jones
    U.S. Exploration & Production Index (formerly Dow
    Jones Secondary Oil Stock Index) from December 31, 2005,
    through December 31, 2010.COMPARISON
    OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*Among Apache Corporation, S&P 500 Indexand the Dow Jones US Exploration & Production
    Index200520062007200820092010Apache Corporation$100.00$97.70$159.16$111.05$154.93$180.12S & P’s Composite 500 Stock Index100.00115.79122.1676.9697.33111.99DJ US Expl& Prod Index100.00105.37151.3990.65127.42148.14* $100 invested on 12/31/05 in stock including reinvestment
    of dividends.Fiscal year ending December 31.34




ITEM 6.SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA



The following table sets forth selected financial data of the
    Company and its consolidated subsidiaries over the five-year
    period ended December 31, 2010, which information has been
    derived from the Company’s audited financial statements.
    This information should be read in connection with, and is
    qualified in its entirety by, the more detailed information in
    the Company’s financial statements set forth in
    Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.As discussed in more detail under Item 15, the 2009 numbers
    in the following table reflect a $2.82 billion
    ($1.98 billion net of tax) non-cash write-down of the
    carrying value of the Company’s U.S. and Canadian
    proved oil and gas properties as of March 31, 2009, as a
    result of ceiling test limitations. The 2008 numbers reflect a
    $5.3 billion ($3.6 billion net of tax) non-cash
    write-down of the carrying value of the Company’s U.S.,
    U.K. North Sea, Canadian and Argentine proved oil and gas
    properties as of December 31, 2008.



As of or for the Year Ended December 31,20102009200820072006(In millions, except per share amounts)Income Statement DataTotal revenues$12,092$8,615$12,390$9,999$8,309Income (loss) attributable to common stock3,000(292)7062,8072,547Net income (loss) per common share:Basic8.53(.87)2.118.457.72Diluted8.46(.87)2.098.397.64Cash dividends declared per common share.60.60.70.60.50Balance Sheet DataTotal assets$43,425$28,186$29,186$28,635$24,308Long-term debt8,0954,9504,8094,0122,020Shareholders’ equity24,37715,77916,50915,37813,191Common shares outstanding382336335333331





For a discussion of significant acquisitions and divestitures,
    see Note 2 — Significant Acquisitions and
    Divestitures in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.





ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS



Apache Corporation, a Delaware corporation formed in 1954, is an
    independent energy company that explores for, develops and
    produces natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids. We
    currently have exploration and production interests in seven
    countries: the U.S., Egypt, Australia, offshore the U.K. in the
    North Sea (North Sea), Argentina and Chile.



The following discussion should be read together with the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of
    thisForm 10-K,and the Risk Factors information set forth in Part I,
    Item 1A of thisForm 10-K.



Executive
    Overview



Strategy



Apache’s mission is to grow a profitable global exploration
    and production company in a safe and environmentally responsible
    manner for the long-term benefit of our shareholders.
    Apache’s long-term perspective has many dimensions, with
    the following core strategic components:



•balanced portfolio of core assets;•conservative capital structure; and•rate of return focus.



A cornerstone of our strategy is balancing our portfolio through
    diversity of geologic risk, geographic risk, hydrocarbon mix
    (crude oil versus natural gas) and reserve life in order to
    achieve consistency in results. Our portfolio of geographic
    locations provides variation of all of these factors and,
    additionally, in the case of Australia and Argentina, the
    potential for increasing the value of our investments through
    rising natural gas prices. By maintaining a balanced hydrocarbon
    mix, we are protecting against price deterioration in a given
    product while retaining upside potential through a significant
    increase in either commodity price. For example, in 2010 oil and
    liquids provided 52 percent of our production but
    77 percent of our total oil and gas revenues. We were well
    positioned to realize the benefit of higher oil prices, enabling
    record financial results despite North America natural gas
    prices that were under pressure most of the year.



Each operating region has a significant producing asset base as
    well as large undeveloped acreage positions which provide room
    for growth through sustainable lower-risk drilling
    opportunities, balanced by higher-risk, higher-reward
    exploration. We closely monitor drilling and acquisition cost
    trends in each of our core areas relative to product prices and,
    when appropriate, adjust our budgets accordingly. We review
    capital allocations, at least quarterly, through a disciplined
    and focused process of reviewing internally-generated drilling
    prospects, opportunities for tactical acquisitions, land
    positions with additional drilling prospects or, occasionally,
    new core areas which could enhance our portfolio. In addition,
    we actively seek to identify and pursue ways to maintain
    efficient levels of costs and expenses. Our overall approach to
    managing cash expenditures has enabled us to consistently
    deliver strong results with 2010 return on average capital
    employed and return on equity of 12 percent and
    15 percent, respectively.



Preserving financial flexibility is also important to our
    overall business philosophy. We ended 2010 with a year-enddebt-to-capitalizationratio of 25 percent, an increase of only one percent from
    the prior year despite current-year capital investments of
    $17 billion, including acquisitions totaling more than
    $11 billion.



Throughout the cycles of our industry, these strategic
    principles have underpinned our ability to deliver production,
    reserve growth and competitive investment rates of return for
    the benefit of our shareholders. Delivering successful results
    under this strategy is bolstered by Apache’s unique
    culture. A strong sense of urgency, empowerment of our
    employees, effective incentive systems and an independent
    mindset are at the heart of how we build value.





Financial
    and Operating Results



While Apache has grown into a much larger company than it was a
    year ago, we have stayed true to our business model, focusing on
    rate of return and cash-generating assets. Although the year
    2010 will be remembered for the level of acquisition activity,
    the record financial results reflected continued growth and
    positive returns. For the12-monthperiod ending December 31, 2010, Apache reported record
    performances in several key metrics. Highlights for the year
    include:



•Annual daily production of oil, natural gas, and natural gas
    liquids averaged a record 658,000 boe/d, up 13 percent
    compared with 2009. Production in fourth-quarter 2010 averaged
    729,000 boe/d, an increase of 24 percent from the 590,000
    boe/d averaged in the fourth quarter of 2009.•Oil and gas production revenues for 2010 increased
    42 percent to $12.1 billion, up from $8.6 billion
    in 2009, and just shy of the record $12.3 billion in 2008
    when prices reached record levels.•Apache reported a record $3 billion in net income, or $8.46
    per common diluted share, compared to a net loss of
    $292 million, or $.87 per share in the 2009 period.
    Apache’s 2009 results were impacted by a $1.98 billion
    after-tax write-down of the carrying value of proved property.
    Apaches 2010 reported adjusted earnings(1), which exclude
    certain items impacting the comparability of results, were
    approximately $3.17 billion or $8.94 per common diluted
    share, up from $1.89 billion or $5.59 per common diluted
    share in the prior year.•Net cash provided by operating activities (operating cash flows
    or cash flows) totaled $6.7 billion, up 60 percent
    from $4.2 billion in 2009.•Estimated proved reserves at year-end 2010 were a record
    2,953 MMboe, up 25 percent from 2009 estimated proved
    reserves of 2,367 MMboe.



(1) SeeNon-GAAP Measures — Adjusted Earningsfor a description of Adjusted Earnings, which is not a
    U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
    measure, and a reconciliation to this measure from Income (Loss)
    Attributable to Common Stock, which is presented in accordance
    with GAAP.



    Outlook



As we head into 2011, we project Apache’s financial
    position will remain strong, given ourdebt-to-capitalizationratio of 25 percent, $2.4 billion of available
    committed borrowing capacity, projections of higher cash flows
    than 2010 levels and determination to hold exploration and
    development spending within our internally-generated cash flows.
    Given the present price disparity between oil and natural gas,
    our near-term focus is exploiting the oily and more liquids-rich
    properties in our portfolio and development of our gas resources
    in Australia and Canada, which we plan to convert to LNG and
    sell in the worldwide LNG market. As is the Apache way, rates of
    return will drive our decision making while we continue our
    focus on costs, operational efficiency and integrating the
    acquired assets. In 2011 we find ourselves with more
    opportunities than we can fund through internally-generated cash
    flow, and our challenge will be to optimize capital spending
    across our worldwide portfolio.



Our current 2011 capital budget includes exploration and
    development capital of approximately $7.5 billion. Nearly
    $4.0 billion is expected to be spent on projects in North
    America, with the remaining amount allocated across our
    international regions. An estimated one-third of our global
    capital budget is allocated to seismic and leasehold, GTP
    facilities and plugging and abandonment activities. While funds
    have been committed for certain 2011 exploration drilling,
    long-lead development projects and FEED studies, the majority of
    our drilling and development projects are discretionary and
    subject to acceleration, deferral or cancellation as conditions
    warrant. We closely monitor commodity prices, service cost
    levels, regulatory impacts and other numerous industry factors
    and will adjust our exploration and development budgets based on
    changes to predicted operating cash flow. We typically review
    and revise our exploration and development capital budgets on a
    quarterly basis.



Based on the current capital spending budget and the
    acquisitions completed during 2010, Apache expects to increase
    overall production in 2011 between 13 percent and
    17 percent from full-year 2010 production levels. These
    projections exclude the impact from any potential acquisitions
    or divestitures.





The Company is currently planning to divest approximately
    $1.0 billion of properties to optimize and high-grade our
    existing portfolio of assets. The divestiture package will most
    likely include legacy conventional properties in Canada.
    However, as of the date of this filing we have not entered into
    any binding contracts to sell these assets. We generally do not
    budget for acquisitions because they are specific, discrete
    events whose occurrence and timing is unpredictable.
    Acquisitions may be funded from operating cash flows, credit
    facilities, new equity, debt issuances or a combination thereof.



Operating
    Highlights



Current
    Year



During 2010 we completed more than $11 billion of
    acquisitions, continued progress on developing existing core
    properties and expanded into new geographic areas. Through these
    steps, we added significantly to drilling inventory in our core
    areas and established a footprint in two new areas: deepwater
    exploration and LNG, which for us means the monetization of
    large gas resources at oil-linked prices.



Merger
    and Acquisitions of Property and Acreage



From 2007 to 2009 we were relatively absent from the acquisition
    market. We believed the market was overheated as oil and gas
    prices spiked, and the opportunities we identified did not meet
    our criteria for risk, rewardand/orgrowth potential. We built our cash position while drilling our
    existing inventory of prospects and waiting for the right
    transactions to supplement it.





•In June we completed the $1.05 billion acquisition of Devon
    Energy Corporation’s oil and gas assets on the Gulf of
    Mexico (GOM) shelf, 75 percent of which are in fields now
    operated by Apache. The acquired assets include 477,000 net
    acres across 150 blocks. The Company believes that these
    well-maintained, high-quality assets fit well with Apache’s
    existing infrastructure and play to the strengths that come with
    our experience operating on the shelf, exploiting the current
    production base and capturing upside potential.



•In August we completed the $2.5 billion acquisition of oil
    and gas operations, acreage and infrastructure in the Permian
    Basin from BP plc (BP), solidifying our position as one of the
    most active operators in the area, where Apache has been
    competing for 20 years. The acquisition more than doubled
    our footprint in the Permian Basin to over three million gross
    acres.



•In October we completed the $3.25 billion acquisition of
    substantially all of BP’s upstream natural gas business in
    western Alberta and British Columbia, including 1.3 million
    net mineral and leasehold acres with significant positions in
    several emerging unconventional plays, such as the Noel
    tight-gas project, which ramped up to100 MMcf/dby the end of the fourth quarter. We own a 100-percent working
    interest in the Noel project.



•In November we closed on the purchase of BP assets in
    Egypt’s Western Desert for $650 million, acquiring
    four development leases and one exploration concession as well
    as strategically-positioned infrastructure that will enable
    Apache to increase production from existing fields in the
    Western Desert.



•Also in November, shareholders of Mariner Energy, Inc. (Mariner)
    approved the purchase of their company by Apache for stock and
    cash consideration totaling $2.7 billion. We also assumed
    approximately $1.7 billion of Mariner’s debt with the
    merger. Apache established a strategic presence in the deepwater
    Gulf of Mexico and expanded our positions in the GOM shelf, Gulf
    Coast and Permian Basin with the acquisition. The acquisition
    also provides deepwater geoscience expertise, including a core
    competency in subsea tieback developments, which can
    significantly reduce the cycle time between exploration success
    and initial production.



•During the first quarter of 2010 Apache Canada Ltd. (Apache
    Canada), through its subsidiaries, closed the acquisition of a
    51-percent interest in a planned LNG export terminal (Kitimat
    LNG facility) and a 25.5-percent interest in a partnership that
    owns a related proposed pipeline. EOG Resources Canada, Inc.
    (EOG





Canada) owns the remaining 49 percent of the Kitimat LNG
    facility and a 24.5-percent interest in the pipeline
    partnership. In February 2011 Apache Canada and EOG Canada
    entered into an agreement to purchase the remaining 50-percent
    interest in the partnership. Upon close of the transaction,
    Apache Canada and EOG Canada will own 51 percent and
    49 percent, respectively, of the pipeline partnership and
    proposed pipeline.



•In Australia, during 2010 we expanded our exploration
    opportunities in the Carnarvon and Exmouth basins via farm-ins
    to seven permits. The transactions resulted in a58-percentincrease in our net undeveloped acreage in the Carnarvon basin
    and added 1.9 million acres for exploration in the Exmouth
    basin. We will operate all of them with a 20- to 70-percent
    working interest.•In the North Sea, we expanded our acreage position during the
    year through successful bids on four exploration licenses and
    farming into two additional licenses with a 50-percent working
    interest.



Egypt 2X
    Gross Production Achievement



Apache’s Egypt operations had another year of growth in
    2010, with gross daily production rising 16 percent to
    322.5 Mboe/d and net daily production rising six percent to an
    average of 161.7 Mboe/d for the year. During the year the
    Company surpassed its late-2005 goal of doubling its Western
    Desert production within five years. Achievement of the goal was
    driven in part by production from several discoveries in the
    Faghur and Matruh basins, infrastructure improvements including
    two new Salam gas trains, expansion of the capacity of the
    Kalabsha oil processing and transportation facilities to 40,000
    b/d and completion of a major strategic compression project on
    Egypt’s northern gas pipeline. The Faghur and Matruh
    basins, where the thickness of the sands and the stacked pay
    zones present multiple opportunities for further exploration
    across our acreage, will continue to be focus areas for Apache
    in 2011.



Van Gogh
    and Pyrenees Oil Fields Development



Australia’s 2010 production averaged a record 79.2 Mboe/d,
    driven by the Apache-operated Van Gogh oil field and BHP
    Billiton-operated Pyrenees oil field, both of which commenced
    production early in 2010. The Van Gogh and Pyrenees developments
    utilize Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO)
    vessels and together added 42.2 Mb/d to Apache’s
    2010 net oil production. Both projects have already reached
    payout.



Organic
    Growth Drivers 2011 to 2013



Australia
    Reindeer Field Development and Devil Creek Gas Plant



Our Reindeer field discovery is projected to commence production
    in 2011 upon completion of the Devil Creek Gas Plant. The Devil
    Creek Gas Plant is scheduled to be commissioned in the fourth
    quarter of 2011. This will be Western Australia’s first new
    domestic natural gas processing hub in more than 15 years.
    The two-train plant is designed to process200 MMcf/dfrom the Apache-operated Reindeer Field. In 2009 we entered into
    a gas sales contract covering a portion of the field’s
    future production. Under the contract, Apache and our joint
    venture partner agreed to supply 154 Bcf of gas over seven
    years (approximately60 MMcf/d)beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011 at prices substantially
    higher than we have historically received in Western Australia.
    Apache owns a 55-percent interest in the field.



Australia
    Halyard Field Development



Initial production from our Halyard-1 discovery well in
    Australia is projected for 2011 upon completion of the tie-in to
    the existing gas facilities on Varanus Island. The extension of
    this subsea infrastructure will also connect the 2010 Spar-2
    discovery and allow for tie-in of future wells.



North Sea
    Satellite Platform



In November Apache entered into a contract to build a new
    satellite oil production platform for our UK Forties field. The
    new platform will be bridge-linked to our existing Forties Alpha
    installation in the Apache-operated field, located on the U.K.
    continental shelf. This project will provide Apache with 18 new
    slots for drilling additional development wells to increase the
    ultimate recovery from the Forties field. The satellite platform
    will also expand





critical utility services to the field, including power
    generation, produced fluid processing, high-pressure gas
    compression for artificial lift and dehydration. Construction is
    projected to be complete by mid-year 2012.



Australia
    Macedon Field Development



The Macedon gas field’s four development wells, which were
    completed in 2010, will be delivered via a60-milepipeline to a200 MMcf/dgas plant to be built at Ashburton North in Western Australia.
    We have a 28-percent non-operated working interest in the field.
    The project, approved in 2010, is currently underway, with first
    production projected in 2013.



Australia
    Coniston Oil Field Discovery



The Coniston field is an oil accumulation near our Van Gogh
    field in Australia. Apache drilled 10 appraisal wells during
    2009, and current plans call for subsea completions tied back to
    the Van Gogh field FPSO Ningaloo Vision. The project has been
    sanctioned for development, with first production into the
    domestic market projected in 2013.



North
    America Unconventional Gas Plays



The identification and development of significant resources in
    shale formations and other unconventional gas plays have
    introduced substantial gas supplies into North American natural
    gas markets for the foreseeable future. Although Apache’s
    current production in North America is primarily conventional,
    near-term gas production growth will likely be driven by our
    activity in three large unconventional plays: shale gas in
    British Columbia’s Horn River basin, tight sands in British
    Columbia’s Noel area and the Granite Wash tight sands in
    the Anadarko basin of Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle.



Horizontal
    Drilling and Completion Techniques



Apache continues to evaluate horizontal drilling potential
    across our acreage positions around the world, in both
    conventional and unconventional reservoirs. In the Permian
    Basin, Apache is utilizing horizontal drilling to access
    bypassed, unswept zones in established waterfloods. We are
    currently drilling our first horizontal shale well in Argentina,
    targeted for completion in April. In addition, we plan to drill
    our first horizontal well in the Western Desert of Egypt in
    2011. The Company will continue to evaluate our opportunities
    utilizing horizontal drilling technology.



Organic
    Growth Drivers 2014 and Beyond



Australia
    Balnaves Oil Field Discovery Development



In October 2010 we announced three successful wells appraising
    our Balnaves-1 discovery, an oil accumulation in a separate
    reservoir beneath the large gas reservoirs of our Brunello gas
    fields (discussed below). The project is currently in the FEED
    stage, with plans to develop the field through a new FPSO. First
    production, if the decision is made to go forward with the
    project, is projected for 2014.



Julimar
    and Brunello Field Discoveries Development/Wheatstone LNG
    Project



In 2016, we are projecting to begin production from our operated
    Julimar and Brunello field gas discoveries through the Chevron
    operated Wheatstone LNG hub, in which we own a foundation equity
    partner interest of 13 percent. Apache’s projected net
    gas sales from the fields are160 MMcf/dand 3,250 b/d with a projected15-yearproduction plateau when the multi-year project is fully
    operational. The Wheatstone project, which is currently in FEED,
    will convert the gas into LNG for sale on the world market.
    World LNG prices are typically oil-linked prices and are
    currently higher than the historical gas prices in Western
    Australia. The project Final Investment Decision (FID) is
    scheduled for 2011, with first LNG projected in 2016. Nonbinding
    Heads of Agreements have been signed with LNG buyers and final
    binding sales and purchase agreements will be completed by FID.





Kitimat/Horn
    River Basin Development



Apache’s time horizon and magnitude of our Horn River basin
    shale gas development is impacted by North American gas prices
    and the completion of the Kitimat LNG facility and a related
    proposed pipeline. The project has the potential to open new
    markets linked to oil prices in the Asia-Pacific region for gas
    from Apache’s Canadian operations, including the Horn River
    basin area in northeast British Columbia. Apache Canada and EOG
    Canada plan to build the Kitimat LNG facility on Bish Cove near
    the Port of Kitimat, 400 miles north of Vancouver, British
    Columbia. The facility is planned for an initial minimum
    capacity of700 MMcf/d,or five million metric tons of LNG per year, of which Apache
    Canada has reserved 51 percent. The proposed287-milepipeline will originate in Summit Lake, British Columbia, and is
    designed to link the Kitimat LNG facility to the pipeline system
    currently servicing western Canada’s natural gas producing
    regions. Apache Canada will have rights to 51-percent of the
    capacity in the proposed pipeline. Completion of the FEED study
    and a final investment decision are targeted for late 2011.
    Construction is expected to commence in 2012, with commercial
    operations projected to begin in 2015.



GOM
    Deepwater



Apache has built deepwater experience and a record of success in
    Egypt, Australia and the Gulf of Mexico, on both the exploration
    and development sides. The GOM deepwater portfolio gained in the
    Mariner merger adds over 100 blocks and offers a strategic
    position into a significant potential growth area in the United
    States that can add meaningful oil reserves and production over
    the long term. Exploration potential is generated from
    Mariner’s extensive track record of 36 deepwater
    development projects completed to date and the technological
    developments in seismic and facilities making exploration more
    predictable, lower risk and lower cost. Our pipeline of
    development projects include the non-operated Heidelberg
    (12.5-percent net working interest) and Lucius (16.67-percent
    net working interest) discoveries, which are still under further
    appraisal and study for ultimate development.



Significant
    Events



Impact
    of Deepwater Drilling Moratorium on Gulf of Mexico
    Operations



In 2010 the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
    Enforcement (BOEMRE) announced a series of moratoria, which
    directed oil and gas lessees and operators to cease drilling new
    deepwater (depths greater than 500 feet) wells on the Outer
    Continental Shelf (OCS), and put oil and gas lessees and
    operators on notice that, with certain exceptions, the BOEMRE
    would not consider drilling permits for deepwater wells and
    related activities. While the moratoria have been formally
    lifted, no new permits for deepwater drilling have been issued
    as of the date of this filing.



In addition, the BOEMRE issued new regulations in 2010 requiring
    additional information, documentation and analysis for all new
    wells on the OCS. The effect of these new regulations was to
    significantly slow down issuance of permits for shallow wells.
    Apache continues to operate under these new regulations and,
    through February 2011, has received 25 drilling permits for
    shallow wells. Current permitting activity has been slowed
    compared to prior-year levels, and the Company has budgeted its
    exploration and development activity accordingly.



Impact
    of Recent Political Changes on Egyptian Operations



In 2010 our operations in Egypt contributed 28 percent of
    our production revenue, 25 percent of total production and
    10 percent of total estimated proved reserves. In 2010 we
    sold all of our Egyptian gas production and 34 percent of
    our Egyptian oil production to Egyptian General Petroleum
    Company (EGPC), the Egyptian state-owned oil company. The
    remainder of our oil was sold in the export market.



As a result of political unrest, protests, riots, street
    demonstrations and acts of civil disobedience that began on
    January 25, 2011, in the Egyptian capital of Cairo,
    Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak stepped down, effective
    February 11, 2011. The Egyptian Supreme Council of the
    Armed Forces assumed power. On February 13, 2011, the
    Council announced that the constitution would be suspended, both
    houses of parliament would be dissolved, and the military would
    rule for six months until elections can be held. Following the
    advice of the U.S. State Department, Apache evacuated all
    non-essential personnel from Egypt. As conditions stabilized,
    approximately one-third of the





evacuated employees returned. Apache’s production, located
    in remote locations in the Western Desert, has continued
    uninterrupted; however, further changes in the political,
    economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the
    Egyptian government, such as changes in laws or regulations,
    export restrictions, expropriation of our assets or resource
    nationalizationand/orforced renegotiation or modification of our existing contracts
    with EGPC could materially and adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.



Apache purchases multi-year political risk insurance from the
    Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) and highly rated
    international insurers covering its investments in Egypt. In the
    aggregate, these policies, subject to the policy terms and
    conditions, provide approximately $1 billion of coverage to
    Apache covering losses arising from confiscation,
    nationalization, and expropriation risks and currency
    inconvertibility. In addition, the Company has a separate policy
    with OPIC, which provides $300 million of coverage for
    losses arising from (1) non-payment by EGPC of arbitral
    awards covering amounts owed Apache on past due invoices and
    (2) expropriation of exportable petroleum when actions
    taken by the Government of Egypt prevent Apache from exporting
    our share of production.



Operations
    Downtime



Production from our Van Gogh oil field was impacted by essential
    maintenance activities on the FPSO. Net fourth quarter
    production of 6,100 b/d was down 17,600 b/d from the previous
    quarter. Production resumed in the first half of February 2011.



In January 2011 a subsea pipeline connecting our Forties Bravo
    platform to our Charlie platform was shut-in because of
    corrosion. A project is underway to re-route the production
    through a smaller line until a new flexible pipeline is
    installed. This intermediate solution should be completed by the
    first of March 2011 and will allow us to produce approximately
    half of the 11,600 b/d that flowed through the main pipeline.
    The new main subsea pipeline will be completed by September 2011.





Results
    of Operations



Oil
    and Gas Revenues



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008%%%$ ValueContribution$ ValueContribution$ ValueContribution(In millions)(In millions)(In millions)Oil Revenues:United States$2,68330%$1,92232%$2,75134%Canada3884%3115%5877%North America3,07134%2,23337%3,33841%Egypt2,87532%2,06334%2,23227%Australia1,29614%2304%2773%North Sea1,59018%1,35622%2,08526%Argentina2092%2073%2253%International5,97066%3,85663%4,81959%Total(2)$9,041100%$6,089100%$8,157100%Natural Gas Revenues:United States$1,40949%$1,05444%$2,20456%Canada64723%54623%1,02626%North America2,05672%1,60067%3,23082%Egypt49517%49021%50713%Australia1636%1336%952%North Sea160%130%180%Argentina1325%1336%1153%International80628%76933%73518%Total(3)$2,862100%$2,369100%$3,965100%Natural Gas Liquids (NGL) Revenues:United States$20874%$7464%$12862%Canada3914%2017%3819%North America24788%9481%16681%Egypt21%—0%—0%Argentina3111%2219%4019%International3312%2219%4019%Total$280100%$116100%$206100%Total Oil and Gas Revenues:United States$4,30035%$3,05036%$5,08341%Canada1,0749%87710%1,65114%North America5,37444%3,92746%6,73455%Egypt3,37228%2,55330%2,73922%Australia1,45912%3634%3723%North Sea1,60613%1,36916%2,10317%Argentina3723%3624%3803%International6,80956%4,64754%5,59445%Total(1)$12,183100%$8,574100%$12,328100%









(1)Financial derivative hedging activities increased oil and gas
    production revenues for 2010 and 2009 by $165.3 million and
    $180.8 million, respectively, and decreased oil and gas
    production revenues for 2008 by $458.7 million.







(2)Financial derivative hedging activities decreased 2010 oil
    revenues by $57.0 million, increased 2009 oil revenues by
    $45.2 million and decreased 2008 oil revenues by
    $450.8 million.(3)Financial derivative hedging activities increased natural gas
    revenues for 2010 and 2009 by $222.3 million and
    $135.6 million, respectively, and decreased natural gas
    revenues for 2008 by $7.9 million.



Production



For the Year Ended December 31,IncreaseIncrease2010(Decrease)2009(Decrease)2008Oil Volume — b/d:United States96,576+8%89,133−1%89,797Canada14,581−4%15,186−11%17,154North America111,157+7%104,319−2%106,951Egypt99,122+8%92,139+38%66,753Australia45,908+369%9,779+19%8,249North Sea56,791−7%60,984+3%59,494Argentina9,956−13%11,505−7%12,409International211,777+21%174,407+19%146,905Total(1)322,934+16%278,726+10%253,856Natural Gas Volume — Mcf/d:United States730,847+10%666,084−2%679,876Canada396,005+10%359,235+2%352,731North America1,126,852+10%1,025,319−1%1,032,607Egypt374,858+3%362,618+38%263,711Australia199,729+9%183,617+49%123,003North Sea2,391−12%2,703+3%2,637Argentina184,8300%184,557−6%195,651International761,808+4%733,495+25%585,002Total(2)1,888,660+7%1,758,814+9%1,617,609NGL Volume — b/d:United States13,777+125%6,136+3%5,986Canada2,884+38%2,089+1%2,076North America16,661+103%8,225+2%8,062Egypt82N/A—N/A—Argentina3,180−2%3,241+12%2,887International3,262+1%3,241+12%2,887Total19,923+74%11,466+5%10,949BOE per day(3)United States232,161+13%206,284−1%209,097Canada83,466+8%77,147−1%78,018North America315,627+11%283,431−1%287,115Egypt161,680+6%152,575+38%110,704Australia79,196+96%40,382+40%28,750North Sea57,190−7%61,435+3%59,934Argentina43,941−3%45,505−5%47,904International342,007+14%299,897+21%247,292Total657,634+13%583,328+9%534,407









(1)Approximately 12 percent of 2010 oil production was subject
    to financial derivative hedges, compared to 10 percent in
    2009 and 19 percent in 2008.







(2)Approximately 23 percent of 2010 gas production was subject
    to financial derivative hedges, compared to nine percent in 2009
    and 20 percent in 2008.(3)The table shows reserves on a boe basis in which natural gas is
    converted to an equivalent barrel of oil based on a 6:1 energy
    equivalent ratio. This ratio is not reflective of the current
    price ratio between the two products.



Pricing



For the Year Ended December 31,IncreaseIncrease2010(Decrease)2009(Decrease)2008Average Oil price — Per barrel:United States$76.13+29%$59.06−29%$83.70Canada72.83+30%56.16−40%93.53North America75.69+29%58.64−31%85.28Egypt79.45+30%61.34−33%91.37Australia77.32+20%64.42−30%91.78North Sea76.66+26%60.91−36%95.76Argentina57.47+16%49.420%49.46International77.21+27%60.58−32%89.63Total(1)76.69+28%59.85−32%87.80Average Natural Gas price — Per Mcf:United States$5.28+22%$4.34−51%$8.86Canada4.48+7%4.17−47%7.94North America5.00+17%4.28−50%8.55Egypt3.62−2%3.70−30%5.25Australia2.24+13%1.99−5%2.10North Sea18.64+42%13.15−30%18.78Argentina1.960%1.96+22%1.61International2.90+1%2.87−16%3.43Total(2)4.15+12%3.69−45%6.70Average NGL Price — Per barrel:United States$41.45+26%$33.02−44%$58.62Canada36.61+43%25.54−48%49.33North America40.62+31%31.12−45%56.23Egypt69.75N/A—N/A—Argentina27.08+44%18.76−50%37.83International28.15+50%18.76−50%37.83Total38.58+40%27.63−46%51.38









(1)Reflectsper-barreldecrease of $.48 in 2010, an increase of $.44 in 2009 and a
    reduction of $4.85 in 2008 from financial derivative hedging
    activities.(2)Reflectsper-Mcfincrease of $.32 in 2010 and $.21 in 2009 and a reduction of
    $.01 in 2008 from financial derivative hedging activities.



Crude Oil
    Prices



A substantial portion of our oil production is sold at
    prevailing market prices, which fluctuate in response to many
    factors that are outside of the Company’s control. Prices
    we received for crude oil in 2010 were 28 percent above
    2009 with economies stabilizing or growing across the globe.
    Apache uses financial instruments to manage a





portion of its exposure to fluctuations in crude oil prices,
    particularly in North America. In 2010, 12 percent of our
    oil production was subject to financial derivative hedges,
    reducing revenues by $57 million. In 2009, 10 percent
    of our oil production was hedged, increasing oil revenue by
    $45 million. For the year-end status of our derivatives,
    please see Note 3 — Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.



While the market price received for crude oil varies among
    geographic areas, crude oil tends to trade at a global price.
    With the exception of Argentina, price movements for all types
    and grades of crude oil generally move in the same direction. In
    Australia, Apache continues to directly market all of our crude
    oil production into Australian domestic and international
    markets at prices indexed to Dated Brent benchmark crude oil
    prices plus a premium, which are typically above NYMEX oil
    prices. In Argentina, we currently sell our oil in the domestic
    market. The Argentine government imposes a sliding-scale tax on
    oil exports, which significantly influences prices domestic
    buyers are willing to pay. Domestic oil prices are currently
    indexed to a $42 per barrel base price, subject to quality
    adjustments and local premiums, and producers realize a gradual
    increase or decrease as market prices deviate from the base
    price. In Tierra del Fuego, similar pricing formulas exist, but
    producers retain a value-added tax collected from buyers,
    effectively increasing price realizations by 21 percent.



Natural
    Gas Prices



Natural gas, which currently has a limited global transportation
    system, is subject to price variances based on local supply and
    demand conditions. The majority of our gas sales contracts are
    indexed to prevailing local market prices. Apache uses a variety
    of fixed-price contracts and derivatives to manage our exposure
    to fluctuations in natural gas prices, primarily in North
    America. In 2010, 23 percent of our gas production was
    subject to financial derivative hedges, increasing revenues by
    $222 million. In 2009, nine percent of our gas production
    was hedged, increasing gas revenue by $136 million. For the
    year-end status of our derivatives, please see
    Note 3 — Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set
    forth in Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.



Apache primarily sells natural gas into the North American
    market, where spot prices increased 17 percent compared to
    2009, and various international markets, where our average
    contracted prices rose just one percent from 2009. Our primary
    markets include North America, Egypt, Australia and Argentina.





•North America has a common market; most of our gas is sold on a
    monthly or daily basis at either monthly or daily market prices.



•In Egypt our gas is sold to EGPC, with a majority under an
    industry pricing formula indexed to Dated Brent crude oil with a
    maximum gas price of $2.65 per MMBtu. On up to100 MMcf/dof gross production, there is no price cap for our gas under a
    legacy contract, which expires at the end of 2012. Overall, the
    region averaged $3.62 per Mcf in 2010.



•Australia has a local market with a limited number of buyers and
    sellers resulting in mostly long-term, fixed-price contracts
    that are periodically adjusted for changes in the local consumer
    price index. Recent increases in demand and higher development
    costs have increased the prices required from the local market
    in order to support the development of new supplies. As a
    result, market prices received on recent contracts, including
    our Reindeer field, are substantially higher than historical
    levels.



•In Argentina we receive government-regulated pricing on a
    substantial portion of our production. The volumes we are
    required to sell at regulated prices are set by the government
    and vary with seasonal factors and industry category. During
    2010 we realized an average price of $1.20 per Mcf on
    government-regulated sales. The majority of the remaining
    volumes were sold at market-driven prices, which averaged $2.65
    per Mcf in 2010. Our overall average realized price for 2010 was
    $1.96 per Mcf, the same as our 2009 average realized price and
    22 percent higher than 2008 average realized price ($1.61
    per Mcf).



During 2010 Apache signed three Gas Plus contracts totaling63 MMcf/dof gross production from fields in the Neuquén and Rio
    Negro Provinces. Gas Plus is a program instituted by the
    Argentine government to encourage new gas supplies through the
    development of tight sands and unconventional reserves. The
    first contract, for10 MMcf/dat $4.10 per MMBtu, has been extended through 2011 for
    11 MMcf/d at $4.10 per





MMbtu. Our other two Gas Plus contracts, for a total of53 MMcf/dat $5.00 per MMBtu, are projected to commence in the first
    quarter of 2011. The gas supplying the Gas Plus program
    contracts is required to come from wells drilled in the
    projects’ approved fields and formations. We believe the
    Gas Plus program, coupled with changing market conditions, point
    to improving price realizations going forward.



For more specific information on marketing arrangements by
    country, please refer to Part I, Items 1 and
    2 — Business and Properties of thisForm 10-K.



Crude Oil
    Revenues



2010 vs. 2009During 2010 crude oil revenues totaled
    $9.0 billion, $2.9 billion higher than the 2009 total
    of $6.1 billion, driven by a 16-percent increase in
    worldwide production and a 28-percent increase in average
    realized prices. Average daily production in 2010 was 322.9
    Mb/d, with prices averaging $76.69 per barrel. Crude oil
    represented 74 percent of our 2010 oil and gas production
    revenues and 49 percent of our equivalent production,
    compared to 71 and 48 percent, respectively, in the prior
    year. Higher realized prices contributed $1.7 billion to
    the increase in full-year revenues, while higher production
    volumes added another $1.2 billion.



Worldwide oil production increased 44.2 Mb/d, driven by a 36.1
    Mb/d increase in Australia on new production from the Van Gogh
    and Pyrenees discoveries, which were brought online in the first
    quarter of 2010. U.S. production increased eight percent,
    or 7.4 Mb/d, with the Permian region up 4.4 Mb/d on properties
    added from the BP acquisitions, the Mariner merger and drilling
    and recompletion activity. The Gulf Coast region added 1.8 Mb/d
    from properties acquired in the Devon acquisition, the Mariner
    merger and drilling and recompletion activity. Central region
    production increased 1.2 Mb/d on drilling and recompletion
    activity. Gross production in Egypt increased 17 percent,
    while net production was up only eight percent, a function of
    the mechanics of our production-sharing contracts. Net
    production increased 7.0 Mb/d on production gains in the
    Shushan, Matruh and numerous other concessions. Additional
    capacity at the Kalabsha oil processing facility, as well as
    processing of condensate-rich gas through the Salam Gas Plant
    allowed by the new Jade manifold, allowed for much of the
    production gains. North Sea production decreased 4.2 Mb/d on
    natural decline and downtime. Production in Argentina and Canada
    declined 1.5 Mb/d and .6 Mb/d, respectively, on natural decline.



2009 vs. 2008Crude oil accounted for
    48 percent of our equivalent production and 71 percent
    of oil and gas production revenues during 2009, compared to 48
    and 66 percent, respectively, for 2008. Impacted by
    dramatically lower oil prices realized during the global
    financial crisis that began in late 2008, crude oil revenues for
    2009 totaled $6.1 billion, $2.1 billion lower than the
    prior year. A 32-percent decline in average realized prices
    reduced revenues $2.6 billion, of which $528 million
    was offset by the impact of 10 percent production growth.



Worldwide production increased 24.9 Mb/d despite curtailed
    capital spending, which was 40 percent lower than 2008.
    Egypt’s oil production increased 38 percent or 25.4
    Mb/d on exploration successes in numerous concessions, most
    notably East Bahariya Extension, South Umbarka, Matruh,
    Northeast Abu Gharadig Extension and Khalda, waterflood projects
    and increased condensate from additional Qasr gas flowing
    through the new processing trains at the Salam Gas Plant.
    Australia’s production was up 1.5 Mb/d, as production was
    restored following completion of repairs at Varanus Island.
    North Sea production increased 1.5 Mb/d on strong drilling
    results, which offset the impact of unplanned downtime at the
    Bravo Platform, which lowered 2009 average daily oil production
    by 2.6 Mb/d. The Bravo Platform was down for most of the fourth
    quarter for pipeline repairs. Production declined 2.0 Mb/d in
    Canada, .9 Mb/d in Argentina and .7 Mb/d in the U.S., as natural
    decline offset results from our curtailed 2009 drilling programs.



Natural
    Gas Revenues



2010 vs. 2009Natural gas revenues for 2010 of
    $2.9 billion were $493 million higher than 2009 on a
    12-percent increase in realized prices and a seven-percent
    increase in production volumes. Realized prices in 2010 averaged
    $4.15 per Mcf and the $.46 per Mcf increase added
    $297 million to revenues. Worldwide production rose130 MMcf/d,adding another $197 million to revenues.



Worldwide gas production rose in all of our core gas-producing
    regions. U.S. production was up64.8 MMcf/d,or 10 percent. Driven by new drilling, recompletion
    activity and properties acquired from Devon and the Mariner





merger, Gulf Coast region production was up38.2 MMcf/d.Permian region production was up20.1 MMcf/d,primarily on volumes from properties acquired from BP. Central
    region production was up6.5 MMcf/das additional production from new drilling and recompletions
    outpaced natural decline. An active drilling and completion
    program at Horn River and additional volumes from properties
    acquired from BP led Canada region production36.8 MMcf/dhigher. Production in Australia was up16.1 MMcf/don higher customer takes from our John Brookes field. In Egypt,
    gross production was up 14 percent, while net production
    rose only three percent, a function of our production-sharing
    contracts. The12.2 MMcf/dincrease in net production relative to 2009 was attributable to
    several factors, including a successful drilling and
    recompletion program on our Matruh concession, additional
    volumes processed through the Obaiyed Gas Plant and a full year
    of additional capacity provided by the completion of two new gas
    trains at the Salam Gas Plant. Argentina’s production was
    up marginally as production from new drilling and recompletions
    was mostly offset by natural decline.



2009 vs. 2008Natural gas accounted for
    50 percent of our equivalent production and 28 percent
    of our oil and gas production revenues during 2009, compared to
    50 and 32 percent, respectively, for 2008. Impacted by
    dramatically lower gas prices realized during the global
    financial crisis that began in late 2008, gas revenues for 2009
    totaled $2.4 billion, down $1.6 billion from 2008. A
    45-percent decline in average realized prices reduced revenues
    $1.8 billion, partially offset by the $184 million
    impact of a nine percent increase in production.



141 MMcf/d,

99 MMcf/d

61 MMcf/d

6 MMcf/d

11 MMcf/d

14 MMcf/d.

8 MMcf/d

30 MMcf/d,

6 MMcf/d





Operating
    Expenses



The table below presents a comparison of our expenses on an
    absolute dollar basis and an equivalent unit of production (boe)
    basis. Our discussion may reference expenses on a boe basis, on
    an absolute dollar basis or both, depending on relevance.



Year Ended December 31,Year Ended December 31,201020092008201020092008(In millions)(Per boe)Depreciation, depletion and amortization:Oil and gas property and equipmentRecurring$2,861$2,202$2,358$11.92$10.34$12.06Additional—2,8185,334—13.2427.27Other assets222193158.92.91.81Asset retirement obligation accretion111105101.46.49.52Lease operating expenses2,0321,6621,9108.477.819.76Gathering and transportation178143157.73.67.80Taxes other than income6905809852.882.725.03General and administrative expenses3803442891.581.621.48Merger, acquisitions & transition183——.77——Financing costs, net229242166.951.13.85Total$6,886$8,289$11,458$28.68$38.93$58.58





Depreciation,
    Depletion and Amortization



The following table details the changes in recurring
    depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) of oil and
    gas properties between 2010 and 2008:



Recurring DD&A(In millions)2008$2,358Volume change150Rate change(306)2009$2,202Volume change317Rate change3422010$2,861





2010 vs. 2009Recurring full-cost depletion
    expense increased $659 million on an absolute dollar basis:
    $342 million on higher rate and $317 million from
    additional production. Our full-cost depletion rate increased
    $1.58 to $11.92 per boe as costs to acquire, find and develop
    reserves exceeded our historical cost basis.



2009 vs. 2008Recurring full-cost depletion
    expense decreased $156 million on an absolute dollar basis:
    $306 million on lower rate, partially offset by an increase
    of $150 million from higher production. Our full-cost
    depletion rate decreased $1.72 to $10.34 per boe. The decrease
    in rate was driven by a $5.33 billion non-cash write-down
    of the carrying value of our December 31, 2008, proved
    property balances in the U.S., U.K. North Sea, Canada and
    Argentina and a $2.82 billion non-cash write-down of the
    carrying value of our March 31, 2009, proved oil and gas
    property balances in the U.S. and Canada. The impact of the
    write-downs was partially offset by 2009 drilling and finding
    costs, which exceeded our historical cost basis.





Lease
    Operating Expenses



Lease operating expenses (LOE) include several components:
    direct operating costs, repair and maintenance, and workover
    costs.



Direct operating costs generally trend with commodity prices and
    are impacted by the type of commodity produced and the location
    of properties (i.e., offshore, onshore, remote locations, etc.).
    Fluctuations in commodity prices impact operating cost elements
    both directly and indirectly. They directly impact costs such as
    power, fuel, and chemicals, which are commodity-price based.
    Commodity prices also affect industry activity and demand, thus
    indirectly impacting the cost of items such as labor, boats,
    helicopters, materials and supplies. Oil, which contributed
    nearly half of our production, is inherently more expensive to
    produce than natural gas. Repair and maintenance costs are
    typically higher on offshore properties and in areas with remote
    plants and facilities. All production in Australia and the North
    Sea and nearly 90 percent from the U.S. Gulf Coast
    region comes from offshore properties. Workovers accelerate
    production; hence, activity generally increases with higher
    commodity prices. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations generally
    impact the Company’s LOE, with a weakening U.S. dollar
    adding toper-unitcosts and a strengthening U.S. dollar loweringper-unitcosts in our international regions.



2010 vs. 2009Our 2010 LOE increased $370 million
    from 2009, or 22 percent on an absolute dollar basis. On aper-unitbasis, LOE increased eight percent with a 22 percent
    increase on higher costs, offset by a 14 percent decline
    related to increased production. The rate was impacted by the
    items below:



Per boe2009 LOE$7.81Acquisitions, net of associated production.27Foreign exchange rate impact.22Equipment rental.22Workover costs.16Stock-based compensation.14Labor and pumper costs.08Material.07Power and fuel.07Incentive compensation.05Other.15Other increased production(.77)2010 LOE$8.47





2009 vs. 2008Our 2009 LOE decreased $248 million
    from 2008. LOE per boe was down 20 percent: 13 percent
    on lower cost and seven percent on higher production. The rate
    was impacted by the items below:



Per boe2008 LOE$9.76Higher production(.68)Workover costs(.36)Foreign exchange rate impact(.33)Power and fuel(.32)Labor and pumper costs(.10)Hurricane repairs(.10)Other(.06)2009 LOE$7.81







Gathering
    and Transportation



We generally sell oil and natural gas under two common types of
    agreements, both of which include a transportation charge. One
    is a netback arrangement, under which we sell oil or natural gas
    at the wellhead and collect a lower relative price to reflect
    transportation costs to be incurred by the purchaser. In this
    case, we record sales at the netback price received from the
    purchaser. Alternatively, we sell oil or natural gas at a
    specific delivery point, pay our own transportation to a
    third-party carrier and receive a price with no transportation
    deduction. In this case we record the separate transportation
    cost as gathering and transportation costs.



In the U.S., Canada and Argentina, we sell oil and natural gas
    under both types of arrangements. In the North Sea, we pay
    transportation charges to a third-party carrier. In Australia,
    oil and natural gas are sold under netback arrangements. In
    Egypt, our oil and natural gas production is primarily sold to
    EGPC under netback arrangements; however, we also export crude
    oil under both types of arrangements.



The following table presents gathering and transportation costs
    we paid directly to third-party carriers for each of the periods
    presented:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)U.S.$42$36$40Canada755363North Sea252628Egypt312321Argentina555Total Gathering and Transportation$178$143$157





2010 vs. 2009Gathering and transportation
    costs increased $35 million from 2009. The increase in the
    U.S. resulted from an increase in both the volumes
    transported under arrangements where we pay costs directly to
    third parties and in rates. The increase in Canada resulted from
    an increase in volumes, rate and foreign exchange rates. North
    Sea costs were down on lower production and foreign exchange
    rates. Egypt costs increased as a result of higher shipping,
    handling and pipeline fees as compared to the prior year.



2009 vs. 2008Gathering and transportation
    costs decreased $14 million from 2008. The decreases in the
    U.S. and Canada resulted from a decrease in both the
    volumes transported under arrangements where we pay costs
    directly to third parties and in rates. North Sea costs were
    down on foreign exchange rates. Egypt costs increased as a
    result of retroactive terminal fees claimed by EGPC, partially
    offset by a decrease in export cargoes as more crude oil was
    purchased by EGPC for domestic use in the latter part of 2009.



Taxes
    Other Than Income



Taxes other than income primarily comprises U.K. Petroleum
    Revenue Tax (PRT), severance taxes on properties onshore and in
    state or provincial waters off the coast of the U.S. and
    Australia and ad valorem taxes on properties in the
    U.S. and Canada. Severance taxes are generally based on a
    percentage of oil and gas production revenues, while the U.K.
    PRT is assessed on net receipts (revenues less qualifying
    operating costs and capital spending) from the Forties field in
    the U.K. North Sea. We are subject to a variety of other taxes
    including U.S. franchise taxes, Australian Petroleum
    Resources Rent tax and various Canadian taxes including:
    Freehold





Mineral tax, Saskatchewan Capital tax and Saskatchewan Resources
    surtax. We also pay taxes on invoices and bank transactions in
    Argentina. The table below presents a comparison of these
    expenses:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)U.K. PRT$422$383$695Severance taxes14288168Ad valorem taxes805571Other taxes465451Total Taxes other than income$690$580$985





2010 vs. 2009Taxes other than income were
    $110 million higher than 2009. U.K. PRT was
    $39 million more than 2009 on a 10 percent increase in
    net profits driven by higher oil revenues. Severance taxes
    increased $54 million from higher taxable revenues in the
    U.S., predominantly resulting from acquisitions, and consistent
    with higher realized oil and natural gas prices relative to the
    prior year. The $25 million increase in ad valorem taxes
    resulted from higher taxable valuations in the
    U.S. associated with increases in oil and natural gas
    prices relative to the prior year and the BP and Devon
    acquisitions and Mariner merger.



2009 vs. 2008Taxes other than income were
    $405 million lower than 2008. U.K. PRT was
    $312 million less than 2008 on a 43 percent decrease
    in net profits, driven by lower oil revenues and lower operating
    and capital costs. The decrease in severance taxes resulted from
    lower taxable revenues in the U.S., consistent with the lower
    realized oil and natural gas prices relative to the prior year.
    The $16 million decrease in ad valorem taxes resulted from
    lower taxable valuations associated with decreases in oil and
    natural gas prices.



General
    and Administrative Expenses



2010 vs. 2009General and administrative
    (G&A) expenses were $36 million higher in 2010 than in
    2009. On a per boe basis, G&A expenses decreased two
    percent as the effect of higher volumes more than offset the
    increase in costs. G&A expense was impacted by the
    following:



2009 G&A$1.62Workforce reduction costs(.19)Stock-based compensation.15Other incentive compensation.06Kitimat LNG administrative costs.03Other corporate costs.11Increased production(.20)2010 G&A$1.58





2009 vs. 2008G&A expenses were
    $55 million higher in 2009 than in 2008. On a per boe
    basis, G&A expenses increased nine percent: 19 percent
    on higher costs, offset by a 10 percent reduction on higher
    volumes. G&A expense was impacted by the following:



2008 G&A$1.48Workforce reduction costs.20Stock-based compensation.17Other incentive compensation(.06)Other corporate costs(.03)Increased production(.14)2009 G&A$1.62







Merger,
    Acquisitions & Transition



In 2010, the Company recognized $183 million in merger,
    acquisitions & transition costs related to our BP and
    Devon acquisitions and the Mariner merger. A summary of these
    costs follows:



Separation and retention costs$114Investment banking fees42Other costs272010 Merger, Acquisitions & Transition$183





Merger, acquisitions & transition costs during 2008
    and 2009 were not material.



Financing
    Costs, Net



Financing costs incurred during the periods noted are composed
    of the following:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)Interest expense$345$309$280Amortization of deferred loan costs1764Capitalized interest(120)(61)(94)Interest income(13)(12)(24)Total Financing costs, net$229$242$166





2010 vs. 2009Financing costs, net decreased
    $13 million from 2009. The decrease is primarily related to
    a $59 million increase in capitalized interest, the result
    of additional unproved balances from the BP acquisitions and
    Mariner merger. This decrease is partially offset by a
    $36 million increase in interest expense from three debt
    issuances in 2010 and $11 million higher amortization of
    deferred loan costs related to the new debt and repayment of the
    Australian project financing facility.



2009 vs. 2008Financing costs, net increased
    $76 million from 2008. The increase in cost is primarily
    the result of a $29 million increase in interest expense
    related to higher average outstanding debt balances, a
    $33 million reduction in capitalized interest related to
    lower unproved property balances and completion of several
    long-term construction projects, and a $12 million decrease
    in interest income on a lower average cash balance and lower
    interest rates.



Provision
    for Income Taxes



2010 vs. 2009The provision for income taxes
    totaled $2.2 billion in 2010 compared to $611 million
    in 2009. The effective rates for 2010 and 2009 were skewed by
    the effect of currency exchange rates on our foreign deferred
    tax liabilities and other net tax settlements. Total taxes and
    the effective rate for 2009 were also impacted by the magnitude
    of the taxes related to the full-cost write-down in that year.
    Excluding these items, the 2010 and 2009 effective tax rates
    were comparable at 40.75 percent and 39.75 percent,
    respectively.



2009 vs. 2008The provision for income taxes
    totaled $611 million in 2009 compared to $220 million
    in 2008. Total taxes and the effective rates for each period
    were skewed by the magnitude of the taxes related to the 2009
    and 2008 full-cost write-downs, the effect of currency exchange
    rates on our foreign deferred tax liabilities and other net tax
    settlements. Excluding these items, the 2009 and 2008 effective
    tax rates were comparable at 39.75 percent and
    39.58 percent, respectively.



Non-GAAP Measures



The Company makes reference to some measures in discussion of
    its financial and operating highlights that are not required by
    or presented in accordance with GAAP. Management uses these
    measures in assessing operating





results and believes the presentation of these measures provides
    information useful in assessing the Company’s financial
    condition and results of operations. These non-GAAP measures
    should not be considered as alternatives to GAAP measures and
    may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be
    comparable to, similarly-titled measures used at other companies.



Adjusted
    Earnings



To assess the Company’s operating trends and performance,
    management uses Adjusted Earnings, which is net income excluding
    certain items that management believes affect the comparability
    of operating results. Management believes this presentation may
    be useful to investors who follow the practice of some industry
    analysts who adjust reported company earnings for items that may
    obscure underlying fundamentals and trends. The reconciling
    items below are the types of items management excludes and
    believes are frequently excluded by analysts when evaluating the
    operating trends and comparability of the Company’s results.



For the YearEnded December 31,20102009(In millions, except share data)Income (Loss) Attributable to Common Stock (GAAP)$3,000$(292)Adjustments:Foreign currency fluctuation impact on deferred tax expense52198Merger, acquisitions & transition, net of tax(1)120—Additional depletion, net of tax(2)—1,981Adjusted Earnings (Non-GAAP)$3,172$1,887Adjusted Earnings Per Share (Non-GAAP)Basic$9.02$5.62Diluted$8.94$5.59Average Number of Common SharesBasic352336Diluted359338









(1)Merger, acquisitions & transition costs recorded in
    2010 totaled $183 million pre-tax, for which a tax benefit
    of $63 million was recognized. The tax effect was
    calculated utilizing the statutory rates in effect in each
    country where costs were incurred.(2)Additional depletion (non-cash write-down of the carrying value
    of proved property) recorded in 2009 was $2.82 billion
    pre-tax, for which a deferred tax benefit of $837 million
    was recognized. The tax effect of the write-down of the carrying
    value of proved property (additional depletion) in 2009 was
    calculated utilizing the statutory rates in effect in each
    country where a write-down occurred.



Acquisitions
    and Divestitures



    Activity



In the fourth quarter of 2010 Apache acquired Mariner, an
    independent exploration and production company, in a stock and
    cash transaction totaling $2.7 billion. We also assumed
    approximately $1.7 billion of Mariner’s debt in
    connection with the merger. The transaction was accounted for as
    a business combination, with Mariner’s assets and
    liabilities reflected in Apache’s financial statements at
    fair value. Mariner’s oil and gas properties are primarily
    located in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater and shelf, the Permian
    Basin and onshore in the Gulf Coast. The Permian Basin and Gulf
    of Mexico shelf assets are complementary to Apache’s
    existing holdings and provide an inventory of future potential
    drilling locations, particularly in the Spraberry and Wolfcamp
    formation oil plays of the Permian Basin. Additionally, Mariner
    has accumulated acreage in emerging unconventional shale oil
    resources in the U.S.





In the third and fourth quarters of 2010 Apache completed the
    acquisition of BP’s oil and gas operations, related
    infrastructure and acreage in the Permian Basin of west Texas
    and New Mexico, substantially all of BP’s Western Canadian
    upstream natural gas assets and BP’s interests in four
    development licenses and one exploration concession (East Badr
    El Din) in the Western Desert of Egypt. The aggregate purchase
    price of the BP acquisitions, subsequent to exercise of
    preferential purchase rights, was $6.4 billion, subject to
    normal post-closing adjustments. The effective date of these
    acquisitions was July 1, 2010.



In the second quarter of 2010 Apache completed an acquisition of
    oil and gas assets on the Gulf of Mexico shelf from Devon for
    $1.05 billion, subject to normal post-closing adjustments.
    The acquisition from Devon was effective January 1, 2010,
    and included 477,000 acres across 150 blocks.



During the first quarter of 2010 Apache Canada, through its
    subsidiaries, closed the acquisition of a 51-percent interest in
    the Kitimat LNG facility and a 25.5-percent interest in a
    partnership that owns a related proposed pipeline. EOG Resources
    Canada owns the remaining 49 percent of the Kitimat LNG
    facility and a 24.5-percent interest in the pipeline
    partnership. In February 2011 Apache Canada and EOG Canada
    entered into an agreement to purchase the remaining 50-percent
    interest in the partnership. Upon close of the transaction,
    Apache Canada and EOG Canada will own 51 percent and
    49 percent, respectively, of the pipeline partnership and
    proposed pipeline.



For further information regarding these acquisitions, please see
    Note 2 — Acquisitions in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV,
    Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.



    Activity



During the second quarter of 2009 Apache announced the
    acquisition of nine Permian Basin oil and gas fields with
    then-current net production of 3,500 boe/d from Marathon Oil
    Corporation for $187.4 million, subject to normal
    post-closing adjustments. Estimated reserves acquired in
    connection with the acquisition totaled 19.5 MMboe. These
    long-lived fields fit well with Apache’s existing
    properties in the Permian Basin, particularly in Lea County, New
    Mexico, and will provide the Company many years of drilling
    opportunities. The effective date of the transaction was
    January 1, 2009.



    Activity



There was no major acquisition activity during 2008; however,
    the Company completed several divestiture transactions. On
    January 29, 2008, the Company completed the sale of its
    interest in Ship Shoal blocks 349 and 359 on the outer
    continental shelf of the Gulf of Mexico to W&T Offshore,
    Inc. for $116 million. On January 31, 2008, the
    Company completed the sale of non-strategic oil and gas
    properties in the Permian Basin of West Texas to Vanguard
    Permian, LLC for $78 million. On April 2, 2008, the
    Company completed the sale of non-strategic Canadian properties
    to Central Global Resources for C$112 million.



Capital
    Resources and Liquidity



Operating cash flows is a primary source of liquidity.
    Apache’s cash flows, both in the short-term and the
    long-term, are impacted by highly volatile oil and natural gas
    prices. Significant deterioration in commodity prices negatively
    impacts revenues, earnings and cash flows, capital spending and
    potentially our liquidity if spending does not trend downward as
    well. Sales volumes and costs also impact cash flows; however,
    these historically have not been as volatile or as impactive as
    commodity prices in the short-term.



Apache’s long-term operating cash flows are dependent on
    reserve replacement and the level of costs required for ongoing
    operations. Our business, as with other extractive industries,
    is a depleting one in which each barrel produced must be
    replaced or the Company and its reserves, a critical source of
    future liquidity, will shrink. Cash investments are required
    continuously to fund exploration and development projects and
    acquisitions, which are necessary to offset the inherent
    declines in production and proven reserves. Future success in
    maintaining and growing reserves and production is highly
    dependent on the success of our exploration and development
    activities or our ability to acquire additional reserves at
    reasonable costs. For a discussion of risk factors related to
    our business and operations, please see Part I,
    Item 1A — Risk Factors.





We may also elect to utilize available committed borrowing
    capacity, access to both debt and equity capital markets, or
    proceeds from the occasional sale of nonstrategic assets for all
    other liquidity and capital resource needs. Apache’s
    ability to access the debt and equity capital markets is
    supported by its investment-grade credit ratings.We believe the liquidity and capital resource alternatives
    available to Apache, combined with internally-generated cash
    flows, will be adequate to fund short-term and long-term
    operations, including our capital spending program, repayment of
    debt maturities and any amount that may ultimately be paid in
    connection with contingencies.Apache’s primary uses of cash are exploration, development
    and acquisition of oil and gas properties, costs necessary to
    maintain ongoing operations, repayment of principal and interest
    on outstanding debt and payment of dividends. We fund our
    exploration and development activities primarily through
    operating cash flows and budget capital expenditures based on
    projected cash flows.See additional information, please see Part I, Items 1
    and 2 — Business and Properties and Part I,
    Item 1A — Risk Factors of thisForm 10-K.56




Sources
    and Uses of Cash



The following table presents the sources and uses of our cash
    and cash equivalents for the years presented:



Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)Sources of Cash and Cash Equivalents:Net cash provided by operating activities$6,726$4,224$7,065Net commercial paper and bank loan borrowings318——Sale of short-term investments—792—Sales of property and equipment—2308Project financing draw-downs—250100Fixed-rate debt borrowings2,470—796Proceeds from issuance of common stock2,258——Proceeds from issuance of depositary shares1,227——Common stock activity702932Treasury stock activity964Other27293913,1055,3328,344Uses of Cash and Cash Equivalents:Capital expenditures(1)4,9223,6315,823Purchase of short-term investments——792Acquisitions:Devon properties1,018——BP properties6,429——Mariner787——Other126310150Net commercial paper and bank loan repayments—2200Project financing repayment350——Payments on fixed-rate notes1,023100—Redemption of preferred stock—98—Dividends226209239Cost of debt and equity transactions17——Other1211158515,0194,4657,289Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(1,914)$867$1,055









(1)The table presents capital expenditures on a cash basis;
    therefore, the amounts differ from those discussed elsewhere in
    this document, which include accruals.



Net Cash
    Provided by Operating Activities



Operating cash flows is our primary source of capital and
    liquidity and is impacted, both in the short-term and the
    long-term, by highly volatile oil and natural gas prices.



Apache’s average natural gas price realizations fluctuated
    throughout 2010, dipping from a high of $4.84 per Mcf in
    February to a low of $3.89 in September before increasing to
    $4.19 in December. Average realized natural gas prices for the
    year rose 12 percent over 2009 to $4.15 per Mcf. Our
    average crude oil realizations saw an





increase throughout the year from a low of $70.68 per barrel in
    May 2010, peaking in December at $86.01 per barrel. Crude oil
    prices averaged $76.69 per barrel for 2010, up 28 percent
    from 2009.



In order to manage the variability in cash flows, we utilize
    commodity hedges. At the end of 2010, we had hedged an average
    of just over 375,000 MMBtu per day of our 2011 North
    American natural gas production. The volumes were primarily
    hedged using fixed-price swaps at an average price of
    approximately $6.25 per MMBtu. For perspective, the natural gas
    hedges represent 24 percent of fourth-quarter 2010 North
    America daily gas production and 16 percent worldwide.



For liquids, we had an average of just under 98,000 b/d of oil
    production hedged for 2011. Crude oil production was primarily
    hedged using collars that had average floor and ceiling prices
    of approximately $69 and $97 per barrel, respectively. In
    addition, 20,000 b/d of our North Sea Forties field production
    will be sold under a physical delivery contract subject to a
    minimum price of $70 a barrel and a ceiling price of $99 a
    barrel. For perspective, the combined 2011 financial derivatives
    represent approximately 35 percent of fourth-quarter 2010
    worldwide daily oil production.



For additional information regarding our derivative contracts,
    please see Note 3 — Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.For quantitative and qualitative information regarding our use
    of derivatives to manage commodity price risk, please see
    Commodity Risk in Part II, Item 7A of thisForm 10-K.



The factors affecting operating cash flows are largely the same
    as those that affect net earnings, with the exception of
    non-cash expenses such as DD&A, asset retirement obligation
    (ARO) accretion and deferred income tax expense, which affect
    earnings but do not affect cash flows.



For 2010, operating cash flows totaled $6.7 billion, up
    $2.5 billion from 2009. The primary driver of the increase
    was a $3.6 billion increase in oil and gas revenues on both
    higher production and prices, especially oil. This was partially
    offset by higher cash-based expenses, including merger and
    transition expenses associated with our acquisitions in 2010,
    and higher income tax payments in 2010.



For a detailed discussion of commodity prices, production, costs
    and expenses, please see “Results of Operations” in
    this Item 7. For additional detail on the changes in
    operating assets and liabilities and the non-cash expenses which
    do not impact net cash provided by operating activities, please
    see the Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows in the Consolidated
    Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of
    thisForm 10-K.



Commercial
    Paper and Bank Loans



The Company has available a $2.95 billion commercial paper
    program, which generally enables Apache to borrow funds for up
    to 270 days at competitive interest rates. As of
    December 31, 2010, the Company had $913 million in
    commercial paper outstanding. For further discussion of our
    commercial paper program, please see “Liquidity” below
    and Note 5 — Debt in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of
    thisForm 10-K.



Upon consummation of our merger with Mariner, we assumed credit
    lines with outstanding borrowings of approximately
    $632 million. Commercial paper was issued to repay this
    amount, and credit lines assumed from Mariner were terminated
    prior to year-end 2010.



Short-term
    Investments



We occasionally invest in highly-liquid, short-term investments
    until funds are needed to further supplement our operating cash
    flows. At December 31, 2008, we had $792 million
    invested in U.S. Treasury securities with original
    maturities greater than three months but less than one year.
    These securities matured on April 2, 2009. None were held
    at December 31, 2010 or 2009.



Project
    Financing



One of the Company’s Australian subsidiaries had a secured
    revolving syndicated credit facility for its Van Gogh and
    Pyrenees oil developments offshore Western Australia. The
    outstanding balance under the facility was





$350 million at December 31, 2009. We paid off
    $50 million of the facility in June 2010 and the remaining
    balance in December 2010. For a more detailed discussion of this
    facility and information regarding our available committed
    borrowing capacity, please see “Liquidity” below.



Fixed-Rate
    Debt



On August 20, 2010, the Company issued $1.5 billion
    principal amount of senior unsecured 5.1-percent notes maturing
    September 1, 2040. The notes are redeemable, as a whole or
    in part, at Apache’s option, subject to a make-whole
    premium. The proceeds were used to repay borrowings under a
    bridge facility and the Company’s commercial paper program
    that were used to finance the BP acquisitions.



On December 3, 2010, the Company issued $500 million
    principal amount of senior unsecured 3.625-percent notes
    maturing February 1, 2021, and $500 million principal
    amount of senior unsecured 5.25-percent notes maturing
    February 1, 2042. The notes are redeemable, as a whole or
    in part, at Apache’s option, subject to a make-whole
    premium. The proceeds were used to redeem the outstanding public
    debt of $1.0 billion assumed upon completion of
    Apache’s acquisition of Mariner on November 10, 2010.



Proceeds
    from Issuance of Common Stock



On July 28, 2010, in conjunction with Apache’s
    $6.4 billion acquisition of properties from BP, the Company
    issued 26.45 million shares of common stock at a public
    offering price of $88 per share. Proceeds, after underwriting
    discounts and before expenses, from the common stock offering
    totaled approximately $2.3 billion.



Proceeds
    from Issuance of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock



On July 28, 2010, Apache issued 25.3 million
    depositary shares, each representing a 1/20th interest in a
    share of Apache’s 6.00-percent Mandatory Convertible
    Preferred Stock, Series D, with an initial liquidation
    preference of $1,000 per share (equivalent to $50 liquidation
    preference per depositary share). The Company received proceeds
    of approximately $1.2 billion, after underwriting discounts
    and before expenses, from the sale.



Capital
    Expenditures



We fund exploration and development activities primarily through
    operating cash flows and budget capital expenditures based on
    projected operating cash flows. Our operating cash flows, both
    in the short and long term, are impacted by highly volatile oil
    and natural gas prices, production levels, industry trends
    impacting operating expenses and our ability to continue to
    acquire or find high-margin reserves at competitive prices. For
    these reasons, operating cash flow forecasts are revised monthly
    in response to changing market conditions and production
    projections. Apache routinely adjusts capital expenditure
    budgets in response to these adjusted operating cash flow
    forecasts and market trends in drilling and acquisitions costs.



Historically, we have used a combination of operating cash
    flows, borrowings under lines of credit and commercial paper
    program and, from time to time, issues of public debt or common
    stock to fund significant acquisitions.





The following table details capital expenditures for each
    country in which we do business.



Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)Exploration and Development:United States$1,623$929$2,183Canada860412705North America2,4831,3412,888Egypt757676853Australia624602880North Sea617375459Argentina240140318Chile201127International2,2581,8042,537Worldwide Exploration and Development Costs4,7413,1455,425Gathering, Transmission and Processing Facilities (GTP):Canada1598329Egypt182151571Australia1626954Argentina325Total GTP Costs506305659Asset Retirement Costs459288514Capitalized Interest1206194Capital Expenditures, excluding Acquisitions5,8263,7996,692Acquisitions, including GTP11,557310150Asset Retirement Costs — Acquired8475—Total Capital Expenditures$18,230$4,114$6,842





Exploration and DevelopmentAs a result of
    Apache’s determination to not outspend our operating cash
    flows, we curtailed 2009 capital expenditures in response to the
    decline in commodity prices and financial uncertainty in the
    global economy at the outset of 2009. Our 2010 drilling and
    development budgets were increased in response to recovering
    commodity prices and projected increases in operating cash
    flows. As a result, worldwide E&D expenditures for 2010
    were 51 percent higher than 2009.



E&D spending in North America, which was up 85 percent
    from the prior year, totaled 52 percent of worldwide
    E&D spending, up from 43 percent in 2009.
    U.S. E&D expenditures were $694 million or
    75 percent higher than year-ago levels on expanded drilling
    activities in the Permian region and horizontal drilling in the
    Granite Wash play in the Central region. Activity related to
    newly acquired properties in the Permian and Gulf Coast regions
    also contributed to increased E&D expenditures late in the
    year. E&D spending in Canada more than doubled, increasing
    to $860 million as the Company actively developed and
    increased its acreage positions in several plays including the
    Horn River basin.



E&D expenditures outside of North America increased
    25 percent over 2009 to nearly $2.3 billion. E&D
    spending in the North Sea was up $242 million over 2009
    levels on construction of the Bacchus subsea tie-back project
    and on the Forties Alpha satellite platform and ongoing upgrades
    to existing platforms. Argentina expenditures were up on
    additional drilling and development activity. Egypt was
    $81 million higher than the prior year on continued
    drilling activity in the Matruh and Faghur basins, where we have
    announced numerous recent discoveries. E&D expenditures in
    Australia and Chile were up marginally, increasing over
    prior-year levels by $22 million and $9 million,
    respectively.





AcquisitionsWe completed over
    $11 billion of acquisitions in 2010 compared to
    $310 million in 2009. We also assumed $847 million in
    asset retirement costs. Acquisition capital expenditures occur
    as attractive opportunities arise and, therefore, vary from year
    to year. For information regarding our acquisitions, please see
    Significant Acquisitions and Divestitures above and
    Note 2 — Acquisitions in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV,
    Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.



Asset Retirement CostsIn 2010 we recorded
    $459 million of additional future asset retirement costs
    associated with our worldwide drilling programs and upward
    revisions to prior-year estimates for timing and costs.



Gathering, Transmission and Processing Facilities
    (GTP)We invested $506 million in GTP in
    2010 compared to $305 million in 2009. GTP expenditures in
    Australia consisted of construction activity at the Devil Creek
    Gas Plant and the FEED study for the Wheatstone LNG project.
    Activity in Canada was centered in the Horn River basin, with
    expenditures for compressor stations, a water treatment
    facility, gathering systems and a gas processing plant.
    Expenditures in Egypt included the initial phases of the
    Kalabsha oil processing facility. In addition, approximately
    $517 million of the value of our 2010 acquisitions is
    associated with GTP.



Dividends



The Company has paid cash dividends on its common stock for 46
    consecutive years through 2010. Future dividend payments will
    depend on the Company’s level of earnings, financial
    requirements and other relevant factors. Common stock dividends
    paid during 2010 totaled $206 million, compared with
    $201 million in 2009 and $234 million in 2008. The
    2008 period included a special non-recurring cash dividend of 10
    cents per common share paid on March 18, 2008. The Company
    also made dividend payments of $20 million on the
    Company’s Series D Preferred Stock in 2010.



Liquidity



At December 31,(In millions, except percentages)20102009Cash and cash equivalents$134$2,048Total debt8,1415,067Shareholders’ equity24,37715,779Available committed borrowing capacity2,3872,300Floating-rate debt/total debt12%7%Percent of total debt to capitalization25%24%





Our liquidity and financial position have not been materially
    affected by recent uncertainty in the credit markets. We believe
    that losses from non-performance are unlikely to occur; however,
    we are not able to predict sudden changes in the
    creditworthiness of the financial institutions with which we do
    business. Twenty-seven of 28 banks with lending commitments to
    the Company have credit ratings of at least single-A, which in
    some cases is based on government support. There is no assurance
    that the financial condition of these banks will not deteriorate
    or that the government guarantee will be maintained. We closely
    monitor the ratings of the 28 banks in our bank group. Having a
    large bank group allows the Company to mitigate the potential
    impact of any bank’s failure to honor its lending
    commitment.



Cash and
    Cash Equivalents



We had $134 million in cash and cash equivalents at
    December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010,
    $120 million of cash was held by foreign subsidiaries and
    approximately $14 million was held by Apache Corporation
    and U.S. subsidiaries. The cash held by foreign
    subsidiaries is subject to additional U.S. income taxes if
    repatriated. Almost all of the cash is denominated in
    U.S. dollars and, at times, is invested in highly liquid,
    investment-grade securities, with maturities of three months or
    less at the time of purchase. We intend to use cash from our
    international subsidiaries to fund international projects.





Debt



At December 31, 2010, outstanding debt, which consisted of
    notes, debentures, commercial paper and uncommitted bank lines,
    totaled $8.1 billion. Current debt consists of
    $46 million borrowed under uncommitted money
    market/overdraft lines of credit in the U.S. and Argentina.
    We have $46 million of debt maturing in 2011,
    $400 million maturing in 2012, $1.8 billion maturing
    in 2013, $350 million maturing in 2015, and the remaining
    $5.6 billion maturing intermittently in years 2016 through
    2096.



Debt-to-CapitalizationRatio



The Company’sdebt-to-capitalizationratio as of December 31, 2010 was 25 percent.



Available
    Credit Facilities



As of December 31, 2010, the Company had unsecured
    committed revolving syndicated bank credit facilities totaling
    $3.3 billion, of which $1.0 billion matures in August
    2011 and $2.3 billion matures in May 2013. The facilities
    consist of a $1.0 billion364-dayfacility, a $1.5 billion facility and a $450 million
    facility in the U.S., a $200 million facility in Australia
    and a $150 million facility in Canada. The
    $1.5 billion and the $450 million credit facilities
    also allow the company to borrow under competitive auctions. The
    U.S. credit facilities are used to support Apache’s
    commercial paper program.



The financial covenants of the credit facilities require the
    Company to maintain adebt-to-capitalizationratio of not greater than 60 percent at the end of any
    fiscal quarter. The negative covenants include restrictions on
    the Company’s ability to create liens and security
    interests on our assets, with exceptions for liens typically
    arising in the oil and gas industry, purchase money liens and
    liens arising as a matter of law, such as tax and
    mechanics’ liens. The Company may incur liens on assets
    located in the U.S. and Canada of up to five percent of the
    Company’s consolidated assets, or approximately
    $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2010. There are no
    restrictions on incurring liens in countries other than
    U.S. and Canada. There are also restrictions on
    Apache’s ability to merge with another entity, unless the
    Company is the surviving entity, and a restriction on our
    ability to guarantee debt of entities not within our
    consolidated group.



There are no clauses in the facilities that permit the lenders
    to accelerate payments or refuse to lend based on unspecified
    material adverse changes. The credit facility agreements do not
    have drawdown restrictions or prepayment obligations in the
    event of a decline in credit ratings. However, the agreements
    allow the lenders to accelerate payments and terminate lending
    commitments if Apache Corporation, or any of its U.S. or
    Canadian subsidiaries, defaults on any direct payment obligation
    in excess of $100 million or has any unpaid, non-appealable
    judgment against it in excess of $100 million. The Company
    was in compliance with the terms of the credit facilities as of
    December 31, 2010.



At the Company’s option, the interest rate for the
    facilities, excluding the364-dayfacility, is based on a base rate, as defined, or LIBOR plus a
    margin determined by the Company’s senior long-term debt
    rating. In the case of the364-dayfacility, the margin over LIBOR varies based upon prices
    reported in the credit default swap market with respect to
    Apache’s one-year indebtedness and the rating for
    Apache’s senior, unsecured long-term debt.



In 2010, one of the Company’s Australian subsidiaries
    repaid $350 million under its amortizing secured revolving
    syndicated credit facility for its Van Gogh and Pyrenees oil
    developments offshore Western Australia. Upon repayment of the
    facility, all commitments under the facility were terminated and
    assets secured by the facility were released.



At December 31, 2010, the margin over LIBOR for committed
    loans was .19 percent on the $1.5 billion facility and
    .23 percent on the $450 million facility in the U.S.,
    the $200 million facility in Australia and the
    $150 million facility in Canada. If the total amount of the
    loans borrowed under the $1.5 billion facility equals or
    exceeds 50 percent of the total facility commitments, then
    an additional .05 percent will be added to the margins over
    LIBOR. If the total amount of the loans borrowed under all of
    the other three facilities equals or exceeds 50 percent of
    the total facility commitments, then an additional
    .10 percent will be added to the margins over LIBOR. The
    Company also pays quarterly facility fees of .06 percent on
    the total amount of the $1.5 billion facility and





.07 percent on the total amount of the other three
    facilities. The facility fees vary based upon the Company’s
    senior long-term debt rating.



Commercial
    Paper Program



In August 2010 the Company increased its commercial paper
    program by $1 billion from $1.95 billion to
    $2.95 billion. The commercial paper program generally
    enables Apache to borrow funds for up to 270 days at
    competitive interest rates. Our 2010 weighted-average interest
    rate for commercial paper was .37 percent. If the Company
    is unable to issue commercial paper following a significant
    credit downgrade or dislocation in the market, the
    Company’s U.S. credit facilities are available as a
    100-percent backstop. The commercial paper program is fully
    supported by available borrowing capacity under
    U.S. committed credit facilities, which expire in 2011 and
    2013. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had
    $913 million in commercial paper outstanding.



Contractual
    Obligations



We are subject to various financial obligations and commitments
    in the normal course of operations. These contractual
    obligations represent known future cash payments that we are
    required to make and relate primarily to long-term debt,
    operating leases, pipeline transportation commitments and
    international commitments. The Company expects to fund these
    contractual obligations with cash generated from operating
    activities.



The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual
    obligations as of December 31, 2010. For additional
    information regarding these obligations, please see
    Note 5 — Debt and Note 8 —
    Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of
    thisForm 10-K.



Note2017 &Contractual ObligationsReferenceTotal20112012-20142015-2016Beyond(In millions)Debt, at face valueNote 5$8,190$46$2,213$766$5,165Interest paymentsNote 57,7744171,1076595,591Drilling rig commitmentsNote 839230389——Purchase obligationsNote 8833574259——E&D commitmentsNote 857523530832—Firm transportation agreementsNote 880913742317079Office and related equipmentNote 816634702537Oil and gas operations equipmentNote 84768514655190OtherNote 855———Total Contractual Obligations(a)(b)(c)(d)$19,220$1,836$4,615$1,707$11,062









(a)This table does not include the estimated discounted liability
    for dismantlement, abandonment and restoration costs of oil and
    gas properties of $2.9 billion. For additional information
    regarding asset retirement obligation, please see Note
    4 — Asset Retirement Obligation in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV,
    Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.(b)This table does not include the Company’s $12 million
    net liability for outstanding derivative instruments valued as
    of December 31, 2010. For additional information regarding
    derivative instruments, please see Note 3 —
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV,
    Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.(c)This table does not include the Company’s pension or
    postretirement benefit obligations. For additional information
    regarding pension and postretirement benefit obligations, please
    see Note 8 — Commitments and Contingencies in the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in
    Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.(d)This table does not include the Company’s tax reserves. For
    additional information regarding tax reserves, please see
    Note 6 — Income Taxes in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV,
    Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.







Apache is also subject to various contingent obligations that
    become payable only if certain events or rulings were to occur.
    The inherent uncertainty surrounding the timing of and monetary
    impact associated with these events or rulings prevents any
    meaningful accurate measurement, which is necessary to assess
    settlements resulting from litigation. Apache’s management
    feels that it has adequately reserved for its contingent
    obligations, including approximately $135 million for
    environmental remediation and approximately $14 million for
    various contingent legal liabilities. For a detailed discussion
    of the Company’s environmental and legal contingencies,
    please see Note 8 — Commitments and Contingencies
    in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in
    Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.



The Company also had approximately $106 million accrued as
    of December 31, 2010, for an insurance contingency as a
    member of Oil Insurance Limited (OIL). This insurance co-op
    insures specific property, pollution liability and other
    catastrophic risks of the Company. As part of its membership,
    the Company is contractually committed to pay a withdrawal
    premium if we elect to withdraw from OIL. Apache does not
    anticipate withdrawal from the insurance pool; however, the
    potential withdrawal premium is calculated annually based on
    past losses and the nature of our asset base. The liability
    reflecting this potential charge has been fully accrued.



Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements



Apache does not currently utilize any off-balance sheet
    arrangements with unconsolidated entities to enhance liquidity
    and capital resource positions.



Insurance
    Program



We maintain insurance coverage that includes coverage for
    physical damage to our oil and gas properties, third party
    liability, workers’ compensation and employers’
    liability, general liability, sudden pollution and other
    coverage. Our insurance coverage includes deductibles that must
    be met prior to recovery. Additionally, our insurance is subject
    to exclusions and limitations and there is no assurance that
    such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from
    all potential consequences and damages.



In general, our current insurance policies covering physical
    damage to our oil and gas assets provide $250 million per
    occurrence with an additional $250 million per year.
    Coverage for damage to our U.S. Gulf of Mexico assets
    specifically resulting from a named windstorm, however, is
    subject to a maximum of $250 million per named windstorm,
    includes a self-insured retention of 40 percent of the
    losses above a $100 million deductible, and is limited to
    no more than two storms per year. In addition, our policies
    covering physical damage to our North Sea oil and gas assets
    provide $250 million per occurrence with an additional
    $750 million per year.



Our various insurance policies also provide coverage for, among
    other things, liability related to negative environmental
    impacts of a sudden pollution event in the amount of
    $750 million per occurrence, charterer’s legal
    liability, in the amount of $1 billion per occurrence,
    aircraft liability in the amount of $750 million per
    occurrence, and general liability, employer’s liability and
    auto liability in the amount of $500 million per
    occurrence. Our service agreements, including drilling
    contracts, generally indemnify Apache for injuries and death of
    the service provider’s employees as well as contractors and
    subcontractors hired by the service provider.



Our insurance policies generally renew in January and June of
    each year. In light of the recent catastrophic accident in the
    Gulf of Mexico, we may not be able to secure similar coverage
    for the same costs. Future insurance coverage for our industry
    could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or
    retentions. In addition, some forms of insurance may become
    unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that we
    believe are economically acceptable.



Apache purchases multi-year political risk insurance from the
    Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) and highly rated
    international insurers covering its investments in Egypt. In the
    aggregate, these policies, subject to the policy terms and
    conditions, provide approximately $1 billion of coverage to
    Apache covering losses arising from confiscation,
    nationalization, and expropriation risks and currency
    inconvertibility. In addition, the Company has a separate policy
    with OPIC, which provides $300 million of coverage for
    losses arising from (1) non-payment by EGPC of arbitral
    awards covering amounts owed Apache on past due invoices and
    (2) expropriation of





exportable petroleum when actions taken by the Government of
    Egypt prevent Apache from exporting our share of production.



Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates



Apache prepares its financial statements and the accompanying
    notes in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America, which require
    management to make estimates and assumptions about future events
    that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and
    the accompanying notes. Apache identifies certain accounting
    policies as critical based on, among other things, their impact
    on the portrayal of Apache’s financial condition, results
    of operations or liquidity and the degree of difficulty,
    subjectivity and complexity in their deployment. Critical
    accounting policies cover accounting matters that are inherently
    uncertain because the future resolution of such matters is
    unknown. Management routinely discusses the development,
    selection and disclosure of each of the critical accounting
    policies. Following is a discussion of Apache’s most
    critical accounting policies:



Reserves
    Estimates



Effective December 31, 2009, Apache adopted revised oil and
    gas disclosure requirements set forth by the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in ReleaseNo. 33-8995,“Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting” and as
    codified by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in
    Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 932,
    “Extractive Industries — Oil and Gas.” The
    new rules include changes to the pricing used to estimate
    reserves, the option to disclose probable and possible reserves,
    revised definitions for proved reserves, additional disclosures
    with respect to undeveloped reserves, and other new or revised
    definitions and disclosures.



Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of
    natural gas, crude oil, condensate and NGL’s that
    geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable
    certainty to be recoverable in future years from known
    reservoirs under existing conditions, operating conditions, and
    government regulations.



Proved undeveloped reserves include those reserves that are
    expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or
    from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is
    required for recompletion. Undeveloped reserves may be
    classified as proved reserves on undrilled acreage directly
    offsetting development areas that are reasonably certain of
    production when drilled, or where reliable technology provides
    reasonable certainty of economic producibility. Undrilled
    locations may be classified as having undeveloped reserves only
    if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are
    scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless specific
    circumstances justify a longer time.



Despite the inherent imprecision in these engineering estimates,
    our reserves are used throughout our financial statements. For
    example, since we use theunits-of-productionmethod to amortize our oil and gas properties, the quantity of
    reserves could significantly impact our DD&A expense. Our
    oil and gas properties are also subject to a “ceiling”
    limitation based in part on the quantity of our proved reserves.
    Finally, these reserves are the basis for our supplemental oil
    and gas disclosures.



Reserves as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 were calculated
    using an unweighted arithmetic average of commodity prices in
    effect on the first day of each month, held flat for the life of
    the production, except where prices are defined by contractual
    arrangements. Reserves as of December 31, 2008 were
    estimated using prices in effect at the end of that year, in
    accordance with SEC guidance in effect prior to the issuance of
    the Modernization Rules.



Apache has elected not to disclose probable and possible
    reserves or reserve estimates in this filing.



Asset
    Retirement Obligation (ARO)



The Company has significant obligations to remove tangible
    equipment and restore land or seabed at the end of oil and gas
    production operations. Apache’s removal and restoration
    obligations are primarily associated with plugging and
    abandoning wells and removing and disposing of offshore oil and
    gas platforms. Estimating the future restoration and removal
    costs is difficult and requires management to make estimates and
    judgments. Asset removal





technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are
    regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public
    relations considerations.



ARO associated with retiring tangible long-lived assets is
    recognized as a liability in the period in which the legal
    obligation is incurred and becomes determinable. The liability
    is offset by a corresponding increase in the underlying asset.
    The ARO liability reflects the estimated present value of the
    amount of dismantlement, removal, site reclamation and similar
    activities associated with Apache’s oil and gas properties.
    The Company utilizes current retirement costs to estimate the
    expected cash outflows for retirement obligations. Inherent in
    the present value calculation are numerous assumptions and
    judgments including the ultimate settlement amounts, inflation
    factors, credit adjusted discount rates, timing of settlement
    and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and
    political environments. To the extent future revisions to these
    assumptions impact the present value of the existing ARO
    liability, a corresponding adjustment is made to the oil and gas
    property balance. Accretion expense is recognized over time as
    the discounted liability is accreted to its expected settlement
    value.



Income
    Taxes



Our oil and gas exploration and production operations are
    subject to taxation on income in numerous jurisdictions
    worldwide. We record deferred tax assets and liabilities to
    account for the expected future tax consequences of events that
    have been recognized in our financial statements and our tax
    returns. We routinely assess the realizability of our deferred
    tax assets. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that
    some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
    realized under accounting standards, the tax asset would be
    reduced by a valuation allowance. Numerous judgments and
    assumptions are inherent in the determination of future taxable
    income, including factors such as future operating conditions
    (particularly as related to prevailing oil and gas prices).



The Company regularly assesses and, if required, establishes
    accruals for tax contingencies that could result from
    assessments of additional tax by taxing jurisdictions in
    countries where the Company operates. Tax reserves have been
    established and include any related interest, despite the belief
    by the Company that certain tax positions meet certain
    legislative, judicial and regulatory requirements. These
    reserves are subject to a significant amount of judgment and are
    reviewed and adjusted on a periodic basis in light of changing
    facts and circumstances considering the progress of ongoing tax
    audits, case law and any new legislation. The Company believes
    that the reserves established are adequate in relation to the
    potential for any additional tax assessments.



Purchase
    Price Allocation



Accounting for the acquisition of a business requires the
    allocation of the purchase price to the various assets and
    liabilities of the acquired business and recording deferred
    taxes for any differences between the allocated values and tax
    basis of assets and liabilities. Any excess of the purchase
    price over the amounts assigned to assets and liabilities is
    recorded as goodwill.



The purchase price allocation is accomplished by recording each
    asset and liability at its estimated fair value. Estimated
    deferred taxes are based on available information concerning the
    tax basis of the acquired company’s assets and liabilities
    and tax-related carryforwards at the merger date, although such
    estimates may change in the future as additional information
    becomes known. The amount of goodwill recorded in any particular
    business combination can vary significantly depending upon the
    values attributed to assets acquired and liabilities assumed
    relative to the total acquisition cost.



In estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed we made various assumptions. The most significant
    assumptions related to the estimated fair values assigned to
    proved and unproved crude oil and natural gas properties. To
    estimate the fair values of these properties, we prepared
    estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves as described
    above in “Reserve Estimates.” Estimated fair values
    assigned to assets acquired can have a significant effect on
    results of operations in the future.





ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK



The primary objective of the following information is to provide
    forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information about
    our exposure to market risk. The term market risk relates to the
    risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL
    prices, interest rates, foreign currency and adverse
    governmental actions. The disclosures are not meant to be
    precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather
    indicators of reasonably possible losses. The forward-looking
    information provides indicators of how we view and manage our
    ongoing market risk exposures.



Commodity
    Risk



The Company’s revenues, earnings, cash flow, capital
    investments and, ultimately, future rate of growth are highly
    dependent on the prices we receive for our crude oil, natural
    gas and NGLs, which have historically been very volatile due to
    unpredictable events such as economic growth or retraction,
    weather and climate. Our average monthly crude oil realizations
    saw a gradual increase from a low of $70.68 per barrel in May
    2010, peaking in December at $86.10. In 2010 crude oil prices
    averaged $76.69 per barrel up 28 percent from 2009. Our
    average monthly natural gas price realizations fluctuated
    throughout 2010, dipping from a high of $4.84 per Mcf in
    February to a low of $3.89 in September before increasing to
    $4.19 in December. Average realized prices in 2010 for natural
    gas increased 12 percent to $4.15 per Mcf.



For 2010 approximately 23 percent of our natural gas
    production was subject to financial derivative hedges. As of
    year-end 2010 we had just over 375,000 MMBtu per day of our
    projected 2011 North American natural gas production hedged. For
    perspective, these hedges cover 24 percent of
    fourth-quarter 2010 North American daily production, or
    16 percent of worldwide production.



Approximately 12 percent of our 2010 crude oil production
    was subject to financial derivative hedges. We entered 2011
    having hedged approximately 98,000 b/d of oil production. In
    addition, Apache North Sea, Ltd. entered into a 2011 physical
    sales contract to deliver 20 thousand barrels of oil per day
    under a collar pricing arrangement. For perspective, the
    combined 2011financial derivatives represent approximately
    35 percent of our fourth-quarter 2010 worldwide daily oil
    volumes.



Apache may use futures contracts, swaps, options and fixed-price
    physical contracts to hedge its commodity prices. Realized gains
    or losses from the Company’s price-risk management
    activities are recognized in oil and gas production revenues
    when the associated production occurs. Apache does not hold or
    issue derivative instruments for trading purposes.



On December 31, 2010, the Company had open natural gas
    derivative hedges in an asset position with a fair value of
    $454 million. A 10 percent increase in natural gas
    prices would reduce the fair value by approximately
    $104 million, while a 10 percent decrease in prices
    would increase the fair value by approximately
    $104 million. The Company also had open crude oil
    derivatives in a liability position with a fair value of
    $466 million. A 10 percent increase in oil prices
    would increase the liability by approximately $356 million,
    while a 10 percent decrease in prices would decrease the
    liability by approximately $298 million. These fair value
    changes assume volatility based on prevailing market parameters
    at December 31, 2010. For notional volumes and terms
    associated with the Company’s derivative contracts, please
    see Note 3 — Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set
    forth in Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.



Apache conducts its risk management activities for its
    commodities under the controls and governance of its risk
    management policy. The Risk Management Committee approves and
    oversees these controls, which have been implemented by
    designated members of the treasury department. The treasury and
    accounting departments also provide separate checks and reviews
    on the results of hedging activities. Controls for our commodity
    risk management activities include limits on credit, limits on
    volume, segregation of duties, delegation of authority and a
    number of other policy and procedural controls.



Interest
    Rate Risk



On December 31, 2010, the Company’s debt with fixed
    interest rates represented approximately 88 percent of
    total debt. As a result, the interest expense on approximately
    12 percent of Apache’s debt will fluctuate based on





short-term interest rates. A 10 percent change in floating
    interest rates on year-end floating debt balances would change
    annual interest expense by approximately $782,000.



Foreign
    Currency Risk



The Company’s cash flow stream relating to certain
    international operations is based on the U.S. dollar
    equivalent of cash flows measured in foreign currencies. In
    Australia, oil production is sold under U.S. dollar
    contracts, and gas production is sold largely under fixed-price
    Australian dollar contracts. Approximately half the costs
    incurred for Australian operations are paid in
    U.S. dollars. In Canada, the majority of oil and gas
    production is sold under Canadian dollar contracts. The majority
    of the costs incurred are paid in Canadian dollars. The North
    Sea production is sold under U.S. dollar contracts, and the
    majority of costs incurred are paid in British pounds. In Egypt,
    all oil and gas production is sold under U.S. dollar
    contracts, and the majority of the costs incurred are
    denominated in U.S. dollars. Argentine revenues and
    expenditures are largely denominated in U.S. dollars but
    converted into Argentine pesos at the time of payment. Revenue
    and disbursement transactions denominated in Australian dollars,
    Canadian dollars, British pounds, Egyptian pounds and Argentine
    pesos are converted to U.S. dollar equivalents based on
    average exchange rates during the period.



Foreign currency gains and losses also arise when monetary
    assets and monetary liabilities denominated in foreign
    currencies are translated at the end of each month. Currency
    gains and losses are included as either a component of
    “Other” under “Revenues and Other” or, as is
    the case when we re-measure our foreign tax liabilities, as a
    component of the Company’s provision for income tax expense
    on the Statement of Consolidated Operations. A 10 percent
    strengthening or weakening of the Australian dollar, Canadian
    dollar, British pound, Egyptian pound or Argentine peso as of
    December 31, 2010, would result in a foreign currency net
    loss or gain, respectively, of approximately $16 million.



Forward-Looking
    Statements and Risk



This report includes “forward-looking statements”
    within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
    1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than
    statements of historical facts included or incorporated by
    reference in this report, including, without limitation,
    statements regarding our future financial position, business
    strategy, budgets, projected revenues, projected costs and plans
    and objectives of management for future operations, are
    forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are
    based on our examination of historical operating trends, the
    information that was used to prepare our estimate of proved
    reserves as of December 31, 2010, and other data in our
    possession or available from third parties. In addition,
    forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the
    use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,”
    “will,” “could,” “expect,”
    “intend,” “project,” “estimate,”
    “anticipate,” “plan,” “believe,”
    or “continue” or similar terminology. Although we
    believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking
    statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such
    expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors
    that could cause actual results to differ materially from our
    expectations include, but are not limited to, our assumptions
    about:



•the market prices of oil, natural gas, NGLs and other products
    or services;•our commodity hedging arrangements;•the integration of Mariner and the BP properties;•increased scrutiny from regulatory agencies due to the BP
    acquisition;•the supply and demand for oil, natural gas, NGLs and other
    products or services;•production and reserve levels;•drilling risks;•economic and competitive conditions;•the availability of capital resources;





•capital expenditure and other contractual obligations;•the significant transaction and acquisition costs related to the
    Mariner and BP property acquisitions;•currency exchange rates;•weather conditions;•inflation rates;•the availability of goods and services;•legislative or regulatory changes;•the impact on our operations due to the change in government in
    Egypt;•terrorism;•occurrence of property acquisitions or divestitures;•the securities or capital markets and related risks such as
    general credit, liquidity, market and interest-rate
    risks; and•other factors disclosed under Items 1 and 2 —
    Business and Properties — Estimated Proved Reserves
    and Future Net Cash Flows, Item 1A — Risk
    Factors, Item 7 — Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
    Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk and elsewhere in thisForm 10-K.All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements
    attributable to the Company, or persons acting on its behalf,
    are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary
    statements. We assume no duty to update or revise our
    forward-looking statements based on changes in internal
    estimates or expectations or otherwise.69




ITEM 8.FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA



The financial statements and supplementary financial information
    required to be filed under this item are presented on pages F-1
    through F-67 in Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-Kand are incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 9.CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE



The financial statements for the fiscal years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, included in this report,
    have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their audit report
    appearing herein.



ITEM 9A.CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES



Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures



G. Steven Farris, the Company’s Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer, in his capacity as principal executive
    officer, and Thomas P. Chambers, the Company’s Executive
    Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, in his capacity as
    principal financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our
    disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2010,
    the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that
    evaluation and as of the date of that evaluation, these officers
    concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and
    procedures were effective, providing effective means to ensure
    that the information we are required to disclose under
    applicable laws and regulations is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
    Commission’s rules and forms and accumulated and
    communicated to our management, including our principal
    executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow
    timely decisions regarding required disclosure. We also made no
    changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
    quarter ending December 31, 2010, that have materially
    affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
    Company’s internal control over financial reporting.



We periodically review the design and effectiveness of our
    disclosure controls, including compliance with various laws and
    regulations that apply to our operations both inside and outside
    the United States. We make modifications to improve the design
    and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and may take other
    corrective action, if our reviews identify deficiencies or
    weaknesses in our controls.



Management’s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting



The management report called for by Item 308(a) ofRegulation S-Kis incorporated herein by reference to “Report of
    Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,”
    included onPage F-1in Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.



The independent auditors attestation report called for by
    Item 308(b) ofRegulation S-Kis incorporated by reference to the “Report of Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm,” included onPage F-3in Part IV, Item 15 of thisForm 10-K.



Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



There was no change in our internal controls over financial
    reporting during the quarter ending December 31, 2010, that
    has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.



ITEM 9B.OTHER
    INFORMATION



None.





PART III



ITEM 10.DIRECTORS
    AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



The information set forth under the captions “Nominees for
    Election as Directors,” “Continuing Directors,”
    “Executive Officers of the Company,” and
    “Securities Ownership and Principal Holders” in the
    proxy statement relating to the Company’s 2011 annual
    meeting of stockholders (the Proxy Statement) is incorporated
    herein by reference.



Code
    of Business Conduct



Pursuant to Rule 303A.10 of the NYSE and Rule 4350(n)
    of the NASDAQ, we are required to adopt a code of business
    conduct and ethics for our directors, officers and employees. In
    February 2004, the Board of Directors adopted the Code of
    Business Conduct (Code of Conduct), and revised it in November
    2010. The revised Code of Conduct also meets the requirements of
    a code of ethics under Item 406 ofRegulation S-K.You can access the Company’s Code of Conduct on the
    Governance page of the Company’s website at
    www.apachecorp.com. Any stockholder who so requests may obtain a
    printed copy of the Code of Conduct by submitting a request to
    the Company’s corporate secretary at the address on the
    cover of thisForm 10-K.Changes in and waivers to the Code of Conduct for the
    Company’s directors, chief executive officer and certain
    senior financial officers will be posted on the Company’s
    website within five business days and maintained for at least
    12 months.



ITEM 11.EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION



The information set forth under the captions “Compensation
    Discussion and Analysis,” “Summary Compensation
    Table,” “Grants of Plan Based Awards Table,”
    “Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table,”
    “Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table,”
    “Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Table,”
    “Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment andChange-in-ControlArrangements” and “Director Compensation Table”
    in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 12.SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
    MANAGEMENT



The information set forth under the captions “Securities
    Ownership and Principal Holders” and “Equity
    Compensation Plan Information” in the Proxy Statement is
    incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 13.CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE



The information set forth under the captions “Certain
    Business Relationships and Transactions” and “Director
    Independence” in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein
    by reference.



ITEM 14.PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES



The information set forth under the caption “Independent
    Auditors” in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
    reference.





PART IV



ITEM 15.EXHIBITS,
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ONFORM 8-K



(a) Documents included in this report:



1. Financial Statements



Report of managementF-1Report of independent registered public accounting firmF-2Report of independent registered public accounting firmF-3Statement of consolidated operations for each of the three years
    in the period ended December 31, 2009F-4Statement of consolidated cash flows for each of the three years
    in the period ended December 31, 2009F-5Consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 and 2008F-6Statement of consolidated shareholders’ equity for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009F-7Notes to consolidated financial statementsF-8









2. Financial Statement Schedules



Financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are
    either not required, not applicable or the information required
    to be presented is included in the Company’s financial
    statements and related notes.



3. Exhibits





Exhibit

No.Description



2.1—Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated April 14, 2010, by and among
    Registrant, ZMZ Acquisitions LLC, and Mariner Energy, Inc.
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Registrant’s
    Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 14, 2010, filed April
    16, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300) (the schedules and annexes have
    been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K).

2.2—Amendment No. 1, dated August 2, 2010, to Agreement and Plan of
    Merger, dated April 14, 2010, by and among Registrant, ZMZ
    Acquisitions LLC, and Mariner Energy, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on
    Form 8-K, dated August 2, 2010, filed on August 3, 2010, SEC
    File No. 001-4300) (the schedules and annexes have been omitted
    pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K).

2.3—Purchase and Sale Agreement by and between BP America Production
    Company and ZPZ Delaware I LLC dated July 20, 2010 (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Registrant’s Current Report
    on Form 8-K/A, dated July 20, 2010, filed on July 21, 2010, SEC
    File No. 001-4300) (the exhibits and schedules have been omitted
    pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K).

2.4—Partnership Interest and Share Purchase and Sale Agreement by
    and between BP Canada Energy and Apache Canada Ltd. dated July
    20, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to
    Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A, dated July 20,
    2010, filed on July 21, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300)(the
    exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of
    Regulation S-K).

2.5—Purchase and Sale Agreement by and among BP Egypt Company, BP
    Exploration (Delta) Limited and ZPZ Egypt Corporation LDC dated
    July 20, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to
    Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A, dated July 20,
    2010, filed on July 21, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300) (the
    exhibits and schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item
    601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K).

3.1—Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, dated
    February 23, 2010, as filed with the Secretary of State of
    Delaware on February 23, 2010 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    year ended December 31, 2009, SEC File No. 001-4300).







Exhibit

No.Description



3.2—Certificate of Designations of the 6.00% Mandatory Convertible
    Preferred Stock, Series D (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    3.3 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A,
    dated July 29, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

3.3—Bylaws of Registrant, as amended August 6, 2009 (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report
    on Form 10-Q for quarter ended June 30, 2009, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

4.1—Form of Certificate for Registrant’s Common Stock
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
    2004, SEC File No. 001-4300).

4.2—Form of Certificate for the 6.00% Mandatory Convertible
    Preferred Stock, Series D (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    A of Exhibit 3.3 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on
    Form 8-A, dated July 29, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

4.3—Form of 3.625% Notes due 2021 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
    dated November 30, 2010, filed on December 3, 2010, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

4.4—Form of 5.250% Notes due 2042 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
    dated November 30, 2010, filed on December 3, 2010, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

4.5—Form of 5.100% Notes due 2040 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
    dated August 17, 2010, filed on August 20, 2010, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

4.6—Rights Agreement, dated January 31, 1996, between Registrant and
    Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (as successor-in-interest to Norwest Bank
    Minnesota, N.A.), rights agent, relating to the declaration of a
    rights dividend to Registrant’s common shareholders of
    record on January 31, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    (a) to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A,
    dated January 24, 1996, SEC File No. 001-4300).

4.7—Amendment No. 1, dated as of January 31, 2006, to the Rights
    Agreement dated as of December 31, 1996, between Apache
    Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
    (as successor-in-interest to Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A.)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Registrant’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A, dated
    January 31, 2006, SEC File No. 001-4300).

4.8—Senior Indenture, dated February 15, 1996, between Registrant
    and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly
    known as the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as
    successor-in-interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank), formerly known as
    The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee, governing the senior debt
    securities and guarantees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    4.6 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3,
    dated May 23, 2003, Reg. No. 333-105536).

4.9—First Supplemental Indenture to the Senior Indenture, dated as
    of November 5, 1996, between Registrant and The Bank of New York
    Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as the Bank of New
    York Trust Company, N.A., as successor-in-interest to JPMorgan
    Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as
    trustee, governing the senior debt securities and guarantees
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to Registrant’s
    Registration Statement on Form S-3, dated May 23, 2003, Reg. No.
    333-105536).

4.10—Form of Indenture among Apache Finance Pty Ltd, Registrant and
    The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known
    as the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as
    successor-in-interest to The Chase Manhattan Bank), as trustee,
    governing the debt securities and guarantees (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Registration
    Statement on Form S-3, dated November 12, 1997, Reg. No.
    333-339973).

4.11—Form of Indenture among Registrant, Apache Finance Canada
    Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
    (formerly known as the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as
    successor-in-interest to The Chase Manhattan Bank), as trustee,
    governing the debt securities and guarantees (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Amendment No. 1 to Registrant’s
    Registration Statement on Form S-3, dated November 12, 1999,
    Reg. No. 333-90147).







Exhibit

No.Description



4.12—Deposit Agreement, dated as of July 28, 2010, between
    Registrants and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as depositary, on behalf
    of all holders from time to time of the receipts issued there
    under (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
    Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 22,
    2010, filed on July 28, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

4.13—Form of Depositary Receipt for the Depositary Shares
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.2 to
    Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 22,
    2010, filed on July 28, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

4.14—Form of Apache Corporation November 10, 2010 First Non-Qualified
    Stock Option Agreements for Certain Employees of Apache
    Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to
    Registrant’s Current Report on Form S-8 filed on November
    10, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

4.15—Form of Apache Corporation November 10, 2010 Second
    Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreements for Certain Employees of
    Apache Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to
    Registrant’s Current Report on Form S-8 filed on November
    10, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

4.16—Form of Apache Corporation November 10, 2010 Non-StatutoryStock
    Option Agreements for Certain Employees of Apache Corporation
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to Registrant’s
    Current Report on Form S-8 filed on November 10, 2010, SEC File
    No. 001-4300).

10.1—Form of Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May
    9, 2006, among Registrant, the Lenders named therein, JPMorgan
    Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of
    America, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, and BNP Paribas and UBS
    Loan Finance LLC, as Co-Documentation Agents (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2006, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

10.2—Form of Request for Approval of Extension of Maturity Date and
    Amendment, dated as of April 5, 2007, among Registrant, the
    Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative
    Agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as
    Co-Syndication Agents, and BNP Paribas and UBS Loan Finance LLC,
    as Co-Documentation Agents (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.2 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for year
    ended December 31, 2007, SEC File No. 001-4300).

10.3—Form of Request for Approval of Extension of Maturity Date and
    Amendment, dated as of February 18, 2008, among Registrant, the
    Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative
    Agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as
    Co-Syndication Agents, and BNP Paribas and UBS Loan Finance LLC,
    as Co-Documentation Agents (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    quarter ended March 31, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).

10.4—Form of Credit Agreement, dated as of May 12, 2005, among
    Registrant, the Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank,
    N.A., as Global Administrative Agent, J.P. Morgan
    Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities, LLC, as Co-Lead
    Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Bank of America, N.A. and
    Citibank, N.A., as U.S. Co-Syndication Agents, and Calyon New
    York Branch and SociétéGénérale, as U.S.
    Co-Documentation Agents (excluding exhibits and schedules)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
    2005, SEC File No. 001-4300).

10.5—Form of Credit Agreement, dated as of May 12, 2005, among Apache
    Canada Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Registrant, the Lenders
    named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Global
    Administrative Agent, RBC Capital Markets and BMO Nesbitt Burns,
    as Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Royal Bank of
    Canada, as Canadian Administrative Agent, Bank of Montreal and
    Union Bank of California, N.A., Canada Branch, as Canadian
    Co-Syndication Agents, and The Toronto-Dominion Bank and BNP
    Paribas (Canada), as Canadian Co-Documentation Agents (excluding
    exhibits and schedules) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    quarter ended June 30, 2005, SEC File No. 001-4300).







Exhibit

No.Description



10.6—Form of Credit Agreement, dated as of May 12, 2005, among Apache
    Energy Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Registrant, the
    Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Global
    Administrative Agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Deutsche
    Bank Securities Inc., as Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint
    Bookrunners, Citisecurities Limited, as Australian
    Administrative Agent, Deutsche Bank AG, Sydney Branch, and
    JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Australian Co-Syndication Agents, and
    Bank of America, N.A., Sydney Branch, and UBS AG, Australia
    Branch, as Australian Co-Documentation Agents (excluding
    exhibits and schedules) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    quarter ended June 30, 2005, SEC File No. 001-4300).

10.7—Form of Request for Approval of Extension of Maturity Date and
    Amendment, dated April 5, 2007, among Registrant, Apache Canada
    Ltd., Apache Energy Limited, the Lenders named therein, JPMorgan
    Chase Bank, N.A., as Global Administrative Agent, and the other
    agents party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
    to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended
    December 31, 2007, SEC File No. 001-4300).

10.8—Form of Request for Approval of Extension of Maturity Date and
    Amendment, dated February 18, 2008, among Registrant, Apache
    Canada Ltd., Apache Energy Limited, the Lenders named therein,
    JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Global Administrative Agent, and
    the other agents party thereto (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).

10.9—Credit Agreement, dated August 13, 2010, among Registrant, JP
    Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and Citibank,
    N.A., Bank Of America, N.A. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as
    Co-Syndication Agents, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
    Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Banc Of America Securities, LLC
    and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, As Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint
    Bookrunners, and the lenders party thereto (excluding exhibits
    and schedules) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
    Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 16,
    2010).

†10.10—Apache Corporation Corporate Incentive Compensation Plan A
    (Senior Officers’ Plan), dated July 16, 1998 (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Registrant’s Annual Report
    on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 1998, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

†10.11—First Amendment to Apache Corporation Corporate Incentive
    Compensation Plan A, dated November 20, 2008, effective as of
    January 1, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to
    Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended
    December 31, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.12—Apache Corporation Corporate Incentive Compensation Plan B
    (Strategic Objectives Format), dated July 16, 1998 (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Registrant’s Annual Report
    on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 1998, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

†10.13—First Amendment to Apache Corporation Corporate Incentive
    Compensation Plan B, dated November 20, 2008, effective as of
    January 1, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to
    Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended
    December 31, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).

*†10.14—Apache Corporation 401(k) Savings Plan, as amended and restated,
    dated October 28, 2010.

*†10.15Amendment to Apache Corporation 401(k) Savings Plan, dated
    December 30, 2010, effective as of November 10, 2010, except as
    otherwise specified.

†10.16—Non-Qualified Retirement/Savings Plan of Apache Corporation, as
    amended and restated July 14, 2010, except as otherwise
    specified (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
    Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
    ended June 30, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.17—Apache Corporation 2007 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan, as
    amended and restated July 13, 2010, effective December 31, 2009
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant’s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
    2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.18—Apache Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan, as amended and
    restated August 14, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    quarter ended September 30, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).







Exhibit

No.Description



†10.19—Apache Corporation 2000 Stock Option Plan, as amended and
    restated August 14, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.4 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    quarter ended September 30, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.20—Apache Corporation 2003 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, as
    amended and restated August 14, 2008 (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form
    10-Q for quarter ended September 30, 2008, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

†10.21—Apache Corporation 2005 Stock Option Plan, as amended and
    restated August 14, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.6 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
    quarter ended September 30, 2008, Commission File No. 001-4300).

†10.22—Apache Corporation 2005 Share Appreciation Plan, as amended
    and restated August 14, 2008 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.7 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, Commission File No.
    001-4300).

†10.23—Apache Corporation 2008 Share Appreciation Program
    Specifications, pursuant to Apache Corporation 2007 Omnibus
    Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    quarter ended March 31, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.24—Apache Corporation Executive Restricted Stock Plan, as amended
    and restated November 19, 2008(incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.37 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
    for year ended December 31, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.25—Apache Corporation Income Continuance Plan, as amended and
    restated July 14, 2010, effective January 1, 2009 (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant’s Quarterly
    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, SEC
    File No. 001-4300).

†10.26—Apache Corporation Deferred Delivery Plan, as amended and
    restated July 13, 2010, effective January 1, 2009 (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant’s Quarterly
    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, SEC
    File No. 001-4300).

†10.27—Apache Corporation Non-Employee Directors’ Compensation
    Plan, as amended and restated November 20, 2008, effective as of
    January 1, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to
    Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended
    December 31, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.28—Apache Corporation Outside Directors’ Retirement Plan, as
    amended and restated July 14, 2010, effective January 1, 2009
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Registrant’s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
    2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.29—Apache Corporation Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
    Directors, as amended and restated February 8, 2007
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended March 31, 2007,
    SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.30—Apache Corporation Non-Employee Directors’ Restricted Stock
    Units Program Specifications, dated August 14, 2008, pursuant to
    Apache Corporation 2007 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Registrant’s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
    30, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.31—Restated Employment and Consulting Agreement, dated January 15,
    2009, between Registrant and Raymond Plank (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on
    Form 8-K, dated January 15, 2009, filed January 16, 2009, SEC
    File No. 001-4300).

†10.32—Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 20,
    1990, between Registrant and John A. Kocur (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Registrant’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 1990, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

†10.33—Employment Agreement between Registrant and G. Steven Farris,
    dated June 6, 1988, and First Amendment, dated November 20,
    2008, effective as of January 1, 2005 (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.44 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
    for year ended December 31, 2008, SEC File No. 001-4300).







Exhibit

No.Description



†10.34—Amended and Restated Conditional Stock Grant Agreement, dated
    September 15, 2005, effective January 1, 2005, between
    Registrant and G. Steven Farris (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.06 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.35—Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, dated May 8, 2008,
    between Registrant and G. Steven Farris (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report
    on Form 10-Q for quarter ended March 31, 2008, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

†10.36—Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, dated February
    12, 2009, between Registrant and each of John A. Crum, Rodney J.
    Eichler, and Roger B. Plank (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
    dated February 12, 2009, filed February 18, 2009, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

†10.37—Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, dated November
    18, 2009, between Registrant and Michael S. Bahorich
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to Registrant’s
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2009, SEC
    File No. 001-4300).

†10.38—Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, dated May 6,
    2009, between Registrant and each of G. Steven Farris, Roger B.
    Plank, John A. Crum, Rodney J. Eichler, and Michael S. Bahorich
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to Registrant’s
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2009, SEC
    File No. 001-4300).

†10.39—Form of Stock Option Award Agreement, dated May 6, 2009, between
    Registrant and each of G. Steven Farris, Roger B. Plank, John A.
    Crum, Rodney J. Eichler, and Michael S. Bahorich (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to Registrant’s Annual Report
    on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2009, SEC File No.
    001-4300).

†10.40Form of 2010 Performance Program Agreement, dated January 15,
    2010, between Registrant and each of G. Steven Farris, John A.
    Crum, Rodney J. Eichler, and Roger B. Plank (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on
    Form 8-K filed January 19, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.41Form of First Amendment, effective May 5, 2010, to 2010
    Performance Program Agreement, dated January 15, 2010, between
    Registrant and each of G. Steven Farris, John A. Crum, Rodney J.
    Eichler, and Roger B. Plank (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
    filed May 11, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.42Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, dated January 15,
    2010, between Registrant and each of John A. Crum, Rodney J.
    Eichler, and Roger B. Plank (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
    filed January 19, 2010, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.43Form of 2011 Performance Program Agreement, dated January 7,
    2011, between Registrant and each of G. Steven Farris, John A.
    Crum, Rodney J. Eichler, Roger B. Plank, Michael S. Bahorich,
    and Thomas P. Chambers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
    January 13, 2011, SEC File No. 001-4300).

†10.44Restricted  Stock Unit Award Agreement, dated February 9, 2011,
    between Registrant and Mr. Thomas P. Chambers (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on
    Form 8-K filed February 14, 2011, SEC File No. 001-4300).

*12.1—Statement of Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
    and Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

*14.1—Code of Business Conduct

*21.1—Subsidiaries of Registrant

*23.1—Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

*23.2—Consent of Ryder Scott Company L.P., Petroleum Consultants

*24.1—Power of Attorney (included as a part of the signature pages to
    this report)

*31.1—Certification of Principal Executive Officer

*31.2—Certification of Principal Financial Officer

*32.1—Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal
    Financial Officer





ExhibitNo.Description*99.1—Report of Ryder Scott Company L.P., Petroleum Consultants**101—The following materials from the Apache Corporation’s
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010,
    formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i)
    Statement of Consolidated Operations, (ii) Statement of
    Consolidated Cash Flows, (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iv)
    Statement of Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity, and (v)
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of
    text.*Filed herewith.**Furnished herewith.†Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements
    required to be filed herewith pursuant to Item 15 hereof.NOTE:Debt instruments of the Registrant
    defining the rights of long-term debt holders in principal
    amounts not exceeding 10 percent of the Registrant’s
    consolidated assets have been omitted and will be provided to
    the Commission upon request.78




SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    hereunto duly authorized.



APACHE CORPORATION





/s/G.
    STEVEN FARRIS



G. Steven Farris

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer



Dated: February 28, 2011



POWER OF
    ATTORNEY



The officers and directors of Apache Corporation, whose
    signatures appear below, hereby constitute and appoint G. Steven
    Farris, Thomas P. Chambers, P. Anthony Lannie and Rebecca A.
    Hoyt, and each of them (with full power to each of them to act
    alone), the true and lawful attorney-in-fact to sign and
    execute, on behalf of the undersigned, any amendment(s) to this
    report and each of the undersigned does hereby ratify and
    confirm all that said attorneys shall do or cause to be done by
    virtue thereof.



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.



NameTitleDate/s/G.
    STEVEN FARRISG.
    Steven FarrisChairman of the Board and ChiefExecutive Officer(principal executive officer)February 28, 2011/s/THOMAS
    P. CHAMBERSThomas
    P. ChambersExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer(principal financial officer)February 28, 2011/s/REBECCA
    A. HOYTRebecca
    A. HoytVice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller(principal accounting officer)February 28, 2011/s/FREDERICK
    M. BOHENFrederick
    M. BohenDirectorFebruary 28, 201/s/RANDOLPH
    M. FERLICRandolph
    M. FerlicDirectorFebruary 28, 2011/s/EUGENE
    C. FIEDOREKEugene
    C. FiedorekDirectorFebruary 28, 2011/s/A.D.
    FRAZIER, JR.A.D.
    Frazier, Jr.DirectorFebruary 28, 2011





NameTitleDate/s/PATRICIA
    ALBJERG GRAHAMPatricia
    Albjerg GrahamDirectorFebruary 28, 2011/s/SCOTT
    D. JOSEYScott
    D. JoseyDirectorFebruary 28, 2011/s/CHANSOO
    JOUNGChansoo
    JoungDirectorFebruary 28, 2011/s/JOHN
    A. KOCURJohn
    A. KocurDirectorFebruary 28, 2011/s/GEORGE
    D. LAWRENCEGeorge
    D. LawrenceDirectorFebruary 28, 2011/s/F.
    H. MERELLIF.
    H. MerelliDirectorFebruary 28, 2011/s/RODMAN
    D. PATTONRodman
    D. PattonDirectorFebruary 28, 2011/s/CHARLES
    J. PITMANCharles
    J. PitmanDirectorFebruary 28, 201180




REPORT OF
    MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
    REPORTING



Management of the Company is responsible for the preparation and
    integrity of the consolidated financial statements appearing in
    this annual report onForm 10-K.The financial statements were prepared in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
    and include amounts that are based on management’s best
    estimates and judgments.



Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    as such term is defined inRule 13a-15(f)under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of the consolidated financial
    statements. Our internal control over financial reporting is
    supported by a program of internal audits and appropriate
    reviews by management, written policies and guidelines, careful
    selection and training of qualified personnel and a written code
    of business conduct adopted by our Company’s board of
    directors, applicable to all Company directors and all officers
    and employees of our Company and subsidiaries.



Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and
    even when determined to be effective, can only provide
    reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
    preparation and presentation. Also, projections of any
    evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
    risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
    conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
    procedures may deteriorate.



Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, management
    used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission inInternal
    Control — Integrated Framework.Based on our
    assessment, management believes that the Company maintained
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010.



The Company’s independent auditors, Ernst & Young
    LLP, a registered public accounting firm, are appointed by the
    Audit Committee of the Company’s board of directors.
    Ernst & Young LLP have audited and reported on the
    consolidated financial statements of Apache Corporation and
    subsidiaries, and the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting. The reports of the
    independent auditors follow this report on pages F-2 and F-3.



/s/  G.
    Steven FarrisChairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer(principal executive officer)



/s/  Thomas
    P. ChambersExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer(principal financial officer)



/s/  Rebecca
    A. HoytVice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller(principal accounting officer)



Houston, Texas

February 28, 2011

F-1




REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM



The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Apache Corporation:



We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Apache Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010
    and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
    shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2010. These
    financial statements are the responsibility of the
    Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.



We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.



In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Apache Corporation and subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of
    their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.



As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, in 2009, the Company adopted SEC Release33-8995and
    the amendments to ASC Topic 932, “Extractive
    Industries — Oil and Gas,” resulting from ASU2010-03(collectively, the Modernization Rules).



We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    Apache Corporation’s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria
    established inInternal Control — Integrated
    Frameworkissued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
    February 28, 2011, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.



/s/  ERNST &
    YOUNG LLP



Houston, Texas

February 28, 2011

F-2




REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM



The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Apache Corporation:



We have audited Apache Corporation and subsidiaries’
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010, based on criteria established inInternal Control — Integrated Frameworkissued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (the COSO criteria). Apache Corporation and
    subsidiaries’ management is responsible for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of
    Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s
    internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.



We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.



A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.



Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.



In our opinion, Apache Corporation and subsidiaries maintained,
    in all material respects, effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the
    COSO criteria.



We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Apache Corporation and
    subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the
    related consolidated statements of operations,
    shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2010 of Apache
    Corporation and subsidiaries, and our report dated
    February 28, 2011, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.



/s/  ERNST &
    YOUNG LLP



Houston, Texas

February 28, 2011

F-3




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESSTATEMENT
    OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONSFor the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions, except per common share data)REVENUES AND OTHER:Oil and gas production revenues$12,183$8,574$12,328Other(91)416212,0928,61512,390OPERATING EXPENSES:Depreciation, depletion and amortizationRecurring3,0832,3952,516Additional—2,8185,334Asset retirement obligation accretion111105101Lease operating expenses2,0321,6621,910Gathering and transportation178143157Taxes other than income690580985General and administrative380344289Merger, acquisitions & transition183——Financing costs, net2292421666,8868,28911,458INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES5,206326932Current income tax provision1,2228421,456Deferred income tax provision (benefit)952(231)(1,236)NET INCOME (LOSS)3,032(285)712Preferred stock dividends3276INCOME (LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCK$3,000$(292)$706NET INCOME (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE:Basic$8.53$(0.87)$2.11Diluted$8.46$(0.87)$2.09The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are
    an integral part of this statement.F-4




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

STATEMENT
    OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS





For the Year Ended December 31,


(In millions)



CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

Net income (loss)$3,032$(285)$712

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided
    by operating activities:

Depreciation, depletion and amortization3,0835,2137,850

Asset retirement obligation accretion111105101

Provision for (benefit from) deferred income taxes952(231)(1,236)

Other190183(51)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of
    acquisitions:

Receivables(496)(187)571

Inventories35(5)(22)

Drilling advances(28)(143)29

Deferred charges and other(141)148(324)

Accounts payable214(180)(71)

Accrued expenses(309)(330)(457)

Deferred credits and noncurrent liabilities83(64)(37)



NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES6,7264,2247,065



CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

Additions to oil and gas property(4,407)(3,326)(5,144)

Additions to gathering, transmission and processing facilities(515)(306)(679)

Acquisition of Marathon properties—(181)—

Acquisition of Devon properties(1,018)——

Acquisition of BP properties and facilities(6,429)——

Mariner Energy, Inc. merger(787)——

Acquisitions, other(126)(129)(150)

Short-term investments—792(792)

Restricted cash—14(14)

Proceeds from sale of oil and gas properties—3308

Other, net(121)(114)(64)



NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES(13,403)(3,247)(6,535)



CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Commercial paper, credit facility and bank notes, net(32)248(100)

Fixed-rate debt borrowings2,470—796

Payments on fixed-rate notes(1,023)(100)—

Proceeds from issuance of common stock2,258——

Proceeds from issuance of mandatory convertible preferred stock1,227——

Dividends paid(226)(209)(239)

Common stock activity702831

Redemption of preferred stock—(98)—

Other192137



NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES4,763(110)525



NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS(1,914)8671,055

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR2,0481,181126



CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR$134$2,048$1,181



SUPPLEMENTARY CASH FLOW DATA:

Interest paid, net of capitalized interest$187$243$171

Income taxes paid, net of refunds1,1706861,695





The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are
    an integral part of this statement.

F-5




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEET





December 31,


(In millions)



ASSETS

CURRENT ASSETS:

Cash and cash equivalents$134$2,048

Receivables, net of allowance2,1341,546

Inventories564533

Drilling advances259231

Prepaid assets and other389228



3,4804,586



PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:

Oil and gas, on the basis of full-cost accounting:

Proved properties57,90444,267

Unproved properties and properties under development, not being
    amortized5,0481,479

Gathering, transmission and processing facilities4,2123,189

Other582493



67,74649,428

Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization(29,595)(26,527)



38,15122,901



OTHER ASSETS:

Goodwill1,032189

Deferred charges and other762510



$43,425$28,186





LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

CURRENT LIABILITIES:

Accounts payable$779$397

Accrued operating expense16390

Accrued exploration and development1,367923

Accrued compensation and benefits231152

Current debt46117

Asset retirement obligations407147

Derivative instruments194128

Other337439



3,5242,393



LONG-TERM DEBT8,0954,950



DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER NONCURRENT LIABILITIES:

Income taxes4,2492,765

Asset retirement obligation2,4651,637

Other715662



7,4295,064



COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Note 8)

SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY:

Preferred stock, no par value, 5,000,000 shares authorized,
    6% Cumulative Mandatory Convertible, Series D, $1,000 per
    share liquidation preference, 1,265,000 shares issued and
    outstanding in 20101,227—

Common stock, $0.625 par, 430,000,000 shares
    authorized, 383,668,297 and 344,076,790 shares issued,
    respectively240215

Paid-in capital8,8644,634

Retained earnings14,22311,437

Treasury stock, at cost, 1,276,555 and 7,639,818 shares,
    respectively(36)(217)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss(141)(290)



24,37715,779



$43,425$28,186







The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are
    an integral part of this statement.

F-6






APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



STATEMENT
    OF CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY





Accumulated

Series BSeries DOtherTotal

ComprehensivePreferredPreferredCommonPaid-InRetainedTreasuryComprehensiveShareholders’

Income (Loss)StockStockStockCapitalEarningsStockIncome (Loss)Equity

(In millions)



BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2007$98$—$213$4,367$11,458$(238)$(520)$15,378

Comprehensive income:

Net income$712————712——712

Postretirement, net of income tax benefit of $7(8)——————(8)(8)

Commodity hedges, net of income tax

expense of $301550——————550550



Comprehensive income$1,254



Cash dividends:

Preferred————(6)——(6)

Common ($.70 per share)————(234)——(234)

Common shares issued——137———38

Treasury shares issued, net—————10—10

Compensation expense———94———94

Other———(25)———(25)



BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 200898—2144,47311,930(228)2216,509

Comprehensive loss:

Net loss$(285)————(285)——(285)

Postretirement, net of income tax benefit of $5(4)——————(4)(4)

Commodity hedges, net of income tax benefit of $171(308)——————(308)(308)



Comprehensive loss$(597)



Cash dividends:

Preferred————(7)——(7)

Common ($.60 per share)————(201)——(201)

Preferred stock redemption(98)——————(98)

Common shares issued——115———16

Treasury shares issued, net———(5)—11—6

Compensation expense———128———128

Other———23———23



BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2009——2154,63411,437(217)(290)15,779

Comprehensive income:

Net income$3,032————3,032——3,032

Postretirement, net of income tax expense of $2(2)——————(2)(2)

Commodity hedges, net of income tax expense of $62151——————151151



Comprehensive income$3,181



Cash dividends:

Preferred————(32)——(32)

Common ($.60 per share)————(214)——(214)

Mandatory convertible preferred stock issued—1,227—————1,227

Common stock issuance——243,969—170—4,163

Common stock activity, net——126———27

Treasury stock activity, net———1—11—12

Compensation expense———225———225

Other———9———9



BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2010$—$1,227$240$8,864$14,223$(36)$(141)$24,377







The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are
    an integral part of this statement.



F-7




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Nature
    of Operations



Apache Corporation (Apache or the Company) is an oil and gas
    exploration and production company with operations in seven
    countries, spanning five continents: the United States, Canada,
    Egypt, the U.K. North Sea, Australia, Argentina and on the
    Chilean side of the island of Tierra del Fuego.



1.SUMMARY
    OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES



Accounting policies used by Apache and its subsidiaries reflect
    industry practices and conform to accounting principles
    generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). Certain
    reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to
    current-year presentation. Significant policies are discussed
    below.



Principles
    of Consolidation



The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
    accounts of Apache and its subsidiaries after elimination of
    intercompany balances and transactions. The Company’s
    interest in oil and gas exploration and production ventures and
    partnerships are proportionately consolidated. The Company
    consolidates all investments in which the Company, either
    through direct or indirect ownership, has more than a 50-percent
    voting interest.



Use of
    Estimates



Preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities requires
    management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
    reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the
    financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
    expenses during the reporting period. The Company bases its
    estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions
    that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
    results of which form the basis for making judgments about
    carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily
    apparent from other sources. Apache evaluates its estimates and
    assumptions on a regular basis. Actual results may differ from
    these estimates and assumptions used in preparation of its
    financial statements and changes in these estimates are recorded
    when known. Significant estimates made in preparing these
    financial statements include fair value of acquired assets and
    liabilities (see Note 2 — Acquisitions), the
    estimate of proved oil and gas reserves and related present
    value estimates of future net cash flows therefrom (see
    Note 12 — Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures),
    asset retirement obligations (see Note 4 — Asset
    Retirement Obligation) and income taxes (see
    Note 6 — Income Taxes).



Cash
    Equivalents



The Company considers all highly liquid short-term investments
    with a maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase
    to be cash equivalents. These investments are carried at cost,
    which approximates fair value. As of December 31, 2010 and
    2009, Apache had $134 million and $2.0 billion,
    respectively, of cash and cash equivalents.



Accounts
    Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts



Accounts receivable are stated at the historical carrying amount
    net of write-offs and allowance for uncollectible accounts. The
    carrying amount of Apache’s accounts receivable approximate
    fair value because of the short-term nature of the instruments.
    The Company routinely assesses the collectability of all
    material trade and other receivables. Many of Apache’s
    receivables are from joint interest owners on properties Apache
    operates. The Company may have the ability to withhold future
    revenue disbursements to recover any non-payment of these joint
    interest billings. The Company accrues a reserve on a receivable
    when, based on the judgment of management, it is probable that a
    receivable will not be collected and the amount of any reserve
    may be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2010 and
    2009, the Company had an allowance for doubtful accounts of
    $48 million and $38 million, respectively.

F-8




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Inventories



Inventories consist principally of tubular goods and equipment,
    stated at the weighted-average cost, and oil produced but not
    sold, stated at the lower of cost or market.



Oil
    and Gas Property



The Company uses the full-cost method of accounting for its
    exploration and development activities. Under this method of
    accounting, the cost of both successful and unsuccessful
    exploration and development activities are capitalized as
    property and equipment. This includes any internal costs that
    are directly related to exploration and development activities,
    including salaries and benefits, but does not include any costs
    related to production, general corporate overhead or similar
    activities. Historically, total capitalized internal costs in
    any given year have not been material to total oil and gas costs
    capitalized in such year. Apache capitalized $321 million,
    $219 million and $236 million of these internal costs
    in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Proceeds from the sale or
    disposition of oil and gas properties are accounted for as a
    reduction to capitalized costs unless a significant portion
    (greater than 25 percent) of the Company’s reserve
    quantities in a particular country are sold, in which case a
    gain or loss is recognized in income.



Costs
    Excluded



Oil and gas unevaluated properties and properties under
    development include costs that are excluded from costs being
    depreciated or amortized. These costs represent investments in
    unproved properties and major development projects in which the
    Company owns a direct interest. Apache excludes these costs on acountry-by-countrybasis until proved reserves are found, until it is determined
    that the costs are impaired or until major development projects
    are placed in service. All costs excluded are reviewed at least
    quarterly to determine if impairment has occurred. In countries
    where proved reserves exist, exploratory drilling costs
    associated with dry holes are transferred to proved properties
    immediately upon determination that a well is dry and amortized
    accordingly. Also, geological and geophysical costs not
    associated with specific properties are recorded to proved
    property. For international operations where a reserve base has
    not yet been established, impairments are charged to earnings
    and are determined through an evaluation considering, among
    other factors, seismic data, requirements to relinquish acreage,
    drilling results, remaining time in the commitment period,
    remaining capital plan and political, economic and market
    conditions.



Ceiling
    Test



Under the existing full-cost method of accounting, a ceiling
    test is performed each quarter. The test establishes a limit
    (ceiling), on acountry-by-countrybasis, on the book value of oil and gas properties. The
    capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties, net of
    accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A)
    and the related deferred income taxes, may not exceed this
    “ceiling.” The ceiling limitation is the estimated
    after-tax future net cash flows from proved oil and gas
    reserves, excluding future cash outflows associated with
    settling asset retirement obligations accrued on the balance
    sheet. If capitalized costs exceed this ceiling, the excess is
    charged to expense and reflected as additional DD&A in the
    accompanying statement of consolidated operations.



Effective December 31, 2009, Apache adopted revised oil and
    gas disclosure requirements set forth by the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in ReleaseNo. 33-8995,“Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting” and as
    codified by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in
    Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 932,
    “Extractive Industries — Oil and Gas.” The
    new rules include changes to the pricing used to estimate
    reserves, the option to disclose probable and possible reserves,
    revised definitions for proved reserves, additional disclosures
    with respect to undeveloped reserves, and other new or revised
    definitions and disclosures.

F-9




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



The estimate of after-tax future net cash flows as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 is calculated using a discount
    rate of 10 percent per annum,end-of-periodcosts, and an unweighted arithmetic average of commodity prices
    in effect on the first day of each month in 2010 and 2009, held
    flat for the life of the production, except where prices are
    defined by contractual arrangements. Prior to adoption of the
    Modernization Rules, effective in the fourth quarter of 2009,
    estimated after-tax future net cash flows were calculated using
    commodity prices in effect at the end of each quarter.



As of December 31, 2010, capitalized costs did not exceed
    the ceiling limitation, and no write-down was indicated.
    Excluding the effect of cash flow hedges in calculating the
    ceiling limitation at December 31, 2010, capitalized costs
    still would not have exceeded the ceiling limitation. See
    Note 12 — Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures
    for a discussion of the calculation of estimated future net cash
    flows.



Under then-existing full-cost accounting rules, the Company
    recorded a $5.3 billion ($3.6 billion net of tax)
    non-cash write-down of the carrying value of the Company’s
    U.S., U.K. North Sea, Canadian and Argentine proved oil and gas
    properties on December 31, 2008, as a result of the ceiling
    test limitations. Under those same rules, which were in effect
    for the first three quarterly reporting periods in 2009, the
    Company recorded an additional $2.82 billion
    ($1.98 billion net of tax) non-cash write-down of the
    carrying value of the Company’s U.S. and Canadian
    proved oil and gas properties as of March 31, 2009. These
    write-downs are reflected as additional DD&A expense in the
    accompanying statement of consolidated operations. Excluding the
    effects of cash flow hedges in calculating the ceiling
    limitation, the write-downs as of December 31, 2008 and
    March 31, 2009 would have been $5.9 billion
    ($4.0 billion net of tax) and $3.4 billion
    ($2.4 billion net of tax), respectively.



Gathering,
    Transmission and Processing Facilities



The Company assesses the carrying amount of its gathering,
    transmission and processing facilities annually and whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying
    amount may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of these
    facilities is less than the sum of the undiscounted cash flows
    expected to result from their use and eventual disposition, an
    impairment loss is recorded through a charge to expense.
    Gathering, transmission and processing facilities totaled
    $4.2 billion and $3.2 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. No impairment of gathering,
    transmission and processing facilities was recognized during
    2010, 2009 or 2008.



Depreciation,
    Depletion and Amortization



DD&A of oil and gas properties is calculated quarterly, on
    acountry-by-countrybasis, using the Units of Production Method (UOP). The UOP
    calculation, in its simplest terms, multiplies the percentage of
    estimated proved reserves produced each quarter times the cost
    of those reserves. The result is to recognize expense at the
    same pace that the reservoirs are actually depleting. The
    amortization base in the UOP calculation includes the sum of
    proved property costs net of accumulated DD&A, estimated
    future development costs (future costs to access and develop
    reserves) and asset retirement costs that are not already
    included in oil and gas property, less related salvage value.



Gas gathering, transmission and processing facilities, buildings
    and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the
    estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from three to
    20 years. Accumulated depreciation for these assets totaled
    $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.



Asset
    Retirement Obligation



The initial estimated asset retirement obligation (ARO) related
    to properties is recognized as a liability, with an associated
    increase in property and equipment for the asset retirement
    cost. Accretion expense is recognized over the estimated
    productive life of the related assets. If the fair value of the
    estimated ARO changes, an adjustment is recorded to both the ARO
    and the asset retirement cost. Revisions in estimated
    liabilities can result from changes in

F-10




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



estimated inflation rates, changes in service and equipment
    costs and changes in the estimated timing of settling ARO.

Capitalized
    Interest



Interest is capitalized on oil and gas investments in unproved
    properties and in-progress exploration and development
    activities. Major construction projects also qualify for
    interest capitalization up until the time the assets are ready
    for service. Capitalized interest is calculated by multiplying
    the Company’s weighted-average interest rate on debt by the
    amount of qualifying costs. For projects under construction that
    carry their own financing, interest is calculated using the
    interest rate related to the project financing. Interest and
    related costs are capitalized until each project is complete.
    Capitalized interest cannot exceed gross interest expense.
    Capitalized interest associated with unproved properties is
    transferred to proved properties along with the associated
    unproved property balance. When major construction projects are
    completed, the associated capitalized interest is amortized over
    the useful life of the related asset. Capitalized interest
    totaled $120 million, $61 million and $94 million
    in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Business
    Combinations



Apache records all business combinations in accordance with ASC
    Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” A business
    combination includes all transactions or other events in which
    control of one or more businesses is obtained. ASC Topic 805
    requires the recognition and measurement of identifiable assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed and recording deferred taxes
    for any differences between the fair values of net assets
    acquired and carryover tax basis of assets and liabilities. Any
    excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of
    assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill.



Purchase
    Price Allocation



The purchase price allocation is accomplished by recording each
    asset and liability at its estimated fair value. Estimated
    deferred taxes are based on available information concerning the
    tax basis of the acquired company’s assets and liabilities
    and tax-related carryforwards at the merger date. The final
    determination of fair value for certain assets and liabilities
    will be completed as soon as the information necessary to
    complete the analysis is obtained. These amounts will be
    finalized as soon as possible, but no later than one year from
    the acquisition date. The amount of goodwill recorded in any
    particular business combination can vary significantly depending
    upon the values attributed to assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed relative to the total acquisition cost.



Goodwill



Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred
    over the net assets recognized and represents the future
    economic benefits arising from assets acquired that could not be
    individually identified and separately recognized. The Company
    assesses the carrying amount of goodwill by testing the goodwill
    for impairment annually and when impairment indicators arise.
    The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and all other
    assets and liabilities to assigned reporting units. The fair
    value of each unit is determined as of the date of the
    impairment test and compared to the book value of the reporting
    unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the
    book value, including goodwill, then goodwill is written down to
    the implied fair value of the goodwill through a charge to
    expense. Goodwill totaled $1.0 billion and
    $189 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. Goodwill of $843 million was recorded in the
    U.S. in 2010 as a result of the merger with Mariner Energy,
    Inc. (Mariner), as discussed in Note 2 —
    Acquisitions. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    approximately $103 million and $86 million were
    recorded in Canada and Egypt, respectively. Each country was
    assessed as a reporting unit. No impairment of goodwill was
    recognized during 2010, 2009 or 2008.

F-11




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Accounts
    Payable



Included in accounts payable at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    are liabilities of approximately $191 million and
    $98 million, respectively, representing the amount by which
    checks issued, but not presented to the Company’s banks for
    collection, exceeded balances in applicable bank accounts.



Commitments
    and Contingencies



Accruals for loss contingencies arising from claims,
    assessments, litigation, environmental and other sources are
    recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred
    and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are
    adjusted as additional information becomes available or
    circumstances change.



Revenue
    Recognition and Imbalances



Oil and gas revenues are recognized when production is sold to a
    purchaser at a fixed or determinable price, when delivery has
    occurred and title has transferred, and if collectibility of the
    revenue is probable. Cash received relating to future revenues
    is deferred and recognized when all revenue recognition criteria
    are met.



Apache uses the sales method of accounting for gas production
    imbalances. The volumes of gas sold may differ from the volumes
    to which Apache is entitled based on its interests in the
    properties. These differences create imbalances that are
    recognized as a liability only when the properties’
    estimated remaining reserves net to Apache will not be
    sufficient to enable the under-produced owner to recoup its
    entitled share through production. The Company’s recorded
    liability is generally reflected in other non-current
    liabilities. No receivables are recorded for those wells where
    Apache has taken less than its share of production. Gas
    imbalances are reflected as adjustments to estimates of proved
    gas reserves and future cash flows in the unaudited supplemental
    oil and gas disclosures.



Apache markets its own U.S. natural gas production. Since
    the Company’s production fluctuates because of operational
    issues, it is occasionally necessary to purchase gas
    (third-party gas) to fulfill sales obligations and commitments.
    Both the costs and sales proceeds of this third-party gas are
    reported on a net basis in oil and gas production revenues. The
    costs of third-party gas netted against the related sales
    proceeds totaled $33 million, $34 million and
    $56 million, for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



The Company’s Egyptian operations are conducted pursuant to
    production sharing contracts under which contractor partners pay
    all operating and capital costs for exploring and developing the
    concessions. A percentage of the production, generally up to
    40 percent, is available to contractor partners to recover
    these operating and capital costs over contractually defined
    terms. Cost recovery is reflected in revenue. The balance of the
    production is split among the contractor partners and the
    Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) on a contractually
    defined basis.



Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities



Apache periodically enters into derivative contracts to manage
    its exposure to commodity price risk. These derivative
    contracts, which are generally placed with major financial
    institutions that the Company believes are minimal credit risks,
    may take the form of forward contracts, futures contracts, swaps
    or options. The oil and gas reference prices, upon which the
    commodity derivative contracts are based, reflect various market
    indices that have a high degree of historical correlation with
    actual prices received by the Company for its oil and gas
    production.



Apache accounts for its derivative instruments in accordance
    with ASC Topic 815, “Derivatives and Hedging,” which
    requires that all derivative instruments, other than those that
    meet the normal purchases and sales exception, be recorded on
    the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at
    fair value. Changes in fair value are recognized currently in
    earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.
    Hedge accounting treatment allows unrealized gains and losses on
    cash flow hedges to be deferred in other comprehensive income.
    Realized gains and losses from the Company’s oil and gas
    cash flow hedges, including terminated contracts, are generally

F-12




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



recognized in oil and gas production revenues when the
    forecasted transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the change
    in fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for
    hedge accounting are reported in current-period income as
    “Other” under Revenues and Other in the statement of
    consolidated operations. If at any time the likelihood of
    occurrence of a hedged forecasted transaction ceases to be
    “probable,” hedge accounting treatment will cease on a
    prospective basis, and all future changes in the fair value of
    the derivative will be recognized directly in earnings. Amounts
    recorded in other comprehensive income prior to the change in
    the likelihood of occurrence of the forecasted transaction will
    remain in other comprehensive income until such time as the
    forecasted transaction impacts earnings. If it becomes probable
    that the original forecasted production will not occur, then the
    derivative gain or loss would be reclassified from accumulated
    other comprehensive income into earnings immediately. Hedge
    effectiveness is measured at least quarterly based on the
    relative changes in fair value between the derivative contract
    and the hedged item over time, and any ineffectiveness is
    immediately reported as “Other” under Revenues and
    Other in the statement of consolidated operations.



General
    and Administrative Expense



General and administrative expenses are reported net of
    recoveries from owners in properties operated by Apache and net
    of amounts related to lease operating activities or capitalized
    pursuant to the full-cost method of accounting.



Income
    Taxes



Apache records deferred tax assets and liabilities to account
    for the expected future tax consequences of events that have
    been recognized in the financial statements and tax returns. The
    Company routinely assesses the realizability of its deferred tax
    assets. If the Company concludes that it is more likely than not
    that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized
    under accounting standards, the tax asset is reduced by a
    valuation allowance. Numerous judgments and assumptions are
    inherent in the determination of future taxable income,
    including factors such as future operating conditions
    (particularly as related to prevailing oil and gas prices) and
    changing tax laws.



Earnings from Apache’s international operations are
    permanently reinvested; therefore, the Company does not
    recognize U.S. deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of
    its international subsidiaries. If it becomes apparent that some
    or all of the unremitted earnings will be remitted, the Company
    will then recognize taxes on those earnings.



Foreign
    Currency Translation



The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for each of
    Apache’s international operations. The functional currency
    is determinedcountry-by-countrybased on relevant facts and circumstances of the cash flows,
    commodity pricing environment and financing arrangements in each
    country. Foreign currency translation gains and losses arise
    when monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
    currencies are remeasured to their U.S. dollar equivalent
    at the exchange rate in effect at the end of each reporting
    period.



The Company accounts for foreign currency gains and losses in
    accordance with ASC Topic 830, “Foreign Currency
    Matters.” Foreign currency translation gains and losses
    related to current taxes payable and deferred tax liabilities
    are recorded as a component of provision for income taxes. In
    2010, the Company recorded additional net tax expense of
    $111 million, including a current tax expense of
    $2 million and deferred tax expense of $109 million,
    in connection with foreign currency translation gains and
    losses. Included in deferred tax expense for 2010 is
    approximately $57 million of tax expense attributable to
    realized foreign currency transactions. In 2009, Apache recorded
    an additional net tax expense of $195 million, including a
    current benefit of $3 million and a deferred expense of
    $198 million. In 2008, Apache recorded an additional tax
    benefit of $400 million, including a current benefit of
    $3 million and a deferred benefit of $397 million. For
    further discussion, see Note 6 — Income Taxes.
    All other foreign currency translation gains and losses are
    reflected in “Other” under Revenues and Other in the
    statement of consolidated operations. The Company’s other
    foreign currency gains and losses included in “Other”

F-13




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



under Revenues and Other in the statement of consolidated
    operations netted to a loss in 2010 of $39 million, and
    gains of $11 million and $38 million in 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.



Foreign currency gains and losses also arise when revenue and
    disbursement transactions denominated in a country’s local
    currency are converted to a U.S. dollar equivalent based on
    the average exchange rates during the reporting period.



Insurance
    Coverage



The Company recognizes an insurance receivable when collection
    of the receivable is deemed probable. Any recognition of an
    insurance receivable is recorded by crediting and offsetting the
    original charge. Any differential arising between insurance
    recoveries and insurance receivables is recorded as a
    capitalized cost or as an expense, consistent with its original
    treatment.



Earnings
    Per Share



The Company’s basic earnings per share (EPS) amounts have
    been computed based on the weighted-average number of shares of
    common stock outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects
    the potential dilution, using the treasury stock method, which
    assumes that options were exercised and restricted stock was
    fully vested.



Diluted EPS also includes the impact of unvested share
    appreciation plans. For awards in which the share price goals
    have already been achieved, shares are included in diluted EPS
    using the treasury stock method. For those awards in which the
    share price goals have not been achieved, the number of
    contingently issuable shares included in diluted EPS is based on
    the number of shares, if any, using the treasury stock method,
    that would be issuable if the market price of the Company’s
    stock at the end of the reporting period exceeded the share
    price goals under the terms of the plan. The diluted EPS
    calculation also includes additional shares of common stock from
    the assumed conversion of Apache’s convertible preferred
    stock.



Stock-Based
    Compensation



The Company accounts for stock-based compensation under the fair
    value recognition provisions of ASC Topic 718,
    “Compensation — Stock Compensation.” The
    Company grants various types of stock-based awards including
    stock options, nonvested restricted stock units and
    performance-based awards. In 2003 and 2004, the Company also
    granted cash-based stock appreciation rights. These plans and
    related accounting policies are defined and described more fully
    in Note 7 — Capital Stock. Stock compensation
    awards granted are valued on the date of grant and are expensed,
    net of estimated forfeitures, over the required service period.



ASC Topic 718 also requires that benefits of tax deductions in
    excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as financing
    cash flows rather than as operating cash flows. The Company
    classified $28 million, $16 million and
    $47 million as financing cash inflows in 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.



Treasury
    Stock



The Company follows the weighted-average-cost method of
    accounting for treasury stock transactions.



Recently
    Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted



All new accounting pronouncements previously issued have been
    adopted as of or prior to December 31, 2010.

F-14




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



2.ACQUISITIONS



    Activity



Kitimat
    LNG Project



During the first quarter of 2010 Apache Canada Ltd. (Apache
    Canada), through its subsidiaries, purchased a51-percentinterest in a planned LNG export terminal (Kitimat LNG facility)
    and a 25.5-percent interest in a partnership that owns a related
    proposed pipeline. In the second quarter of 2010 EOG Resources
    Canada, Inc. (EOG Canada), through its wholly-owned
    subsidiaries, acquired the remaining 49 percent of the
    Kitimat LNG facility and a 24.5-percent interest in the pipeline
    partnership. In February 2011 Apache Canada and EOG Canada
    entered into an agreement to purchase the remaining 50-percent
    interest in the pipeline partnership from Pacific Northern Gas
    Ltd (PNG). Under the terms of the agreement, PNG will operate
    and maintain the planned pipeline under a seven-year agreement
    with Apache Canada and EOG Canada with provisions for five-year
    renewals. It also includes a20-yeartransportation service arrangement which may require Apache
    Canada and EOG Canada, under certain circumstances, to use a
    portion of PNG’s current pipeline capacity. Upon close of
    the transaction, expected in the second quarter of 2011, Apache
    Canada and EOG Canada will own 51 percent and
    49 percent, respectively, of the proposed pipeline.



Apache Canada and EOG Canada plan to build the Kitimat LNG
    facility on Bish Cove near the Port of Kitimat, 400 miles
    north of Vancouver, British Columbia. The facility is planned
    for an initial minimum capacity of700 MMcf/d,or five million metric tons of LNG per year, of which Apache
    Canada has reserved 51 percent. The proposed287-milepipeline will originate in Summit Lake, British Columbia, and is
    designed to link the Kitimat LNG facility to the pipeline system
    currently servicing western Canada’s natural gas producing
    regions. Apache Canada will have rights to 51-percent of the
    capacity in the proposed pipeline. Completion of the FEED study
    and a final investment decision are targeted for late 2011.
    Construction is expected to commence in 2012, with commercial
    operations projected to begin in 2015.



Gulf
    of Mexico Shelf Acquisition



On June 9, 2010, Apache completed an acquisition of oil and
    gas assets on the Gulf of Mexico shelf from Devon Energy
    Corporation (Devon) for $1.05 billion, subject to normal
    post-closing adjustments. The acquisition was effective
    January 1, 2010. The acquired assets include
    477,000 net acres across 150 blocks and estimated proved
    reserves of 41 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMboe)
    (unaudited). Approximately half of the estimated net proved
    reserves were liquid hydrocarbons, and seven major fields
    account for 90 percent of the estimated proved reserves.
    Virtually all of the production is located in fields in water
    depths less than 500 feet, and Apache now operates
    75 percent of the production. Apache allocated
    $653 million of the purchase price to proved property,
    $361 million to unproved property and $4 million to
    gas plant facilities. Apache also recorded abandonment
    obligations for the properties of $233 million. The
    acquisition was funded primarily from existing cash balances.



Mariner
    Energy, Inc. Merger



On November 10, 2010, Apache acquired Mariner, an
    independent exploration and production company, in a stock and
    cash transaction. Mariner’s assets and liabilities are
    reflected in Apache’s financial statements at fair value.



Mariner’s oil and gas properties are primarily located in
    the Gulf of Mexico deepwater and shelf, the Permian Basin and
    onshore in the Gulf Coast. The Permian Basin and Gulf of Mexico
    shelf assets are complementary to Apache’s existing
    holdings and provide an inventory of future potential drilling
    locations, particularly in the Spraberry and Wolfcamp formation
    oil plays of the Permian Basin. Additionally, Mariner has
    accumulated acreage in emerging unconventional shale oil
    resources in the U.S.

F-15




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



The total amount of cash and shares of Apache common stock paid
    and issued, respectively, pursuant to the Merger Agreement was
    fixed, and Mariner stockholders received (on an aggregate basis)
    0.17043 of a share of Apache common stock, par value $0.625 per
    share, and $7.80 in cash for each share of Mariner common stock,
    with cash being paid in lieu of any fractional shares of Apache
    common stock. Upon completion of the Merger, each outstanding
    employee option to purchase Mariner common stock was converted
    into a fully vested option to purchase 0.24347 shares of
    Apache common stock.



Excluded from consideration was $4 million and
    approximately 100,000 shares of Apache common stock issued
    in exchange for 40 percent of Mariner employee
    performance-based restricted shares, which was recognized in
    merger, acquisitions and transition expense in the statement of
    consolidated operations.



The components of the consideration transferred follow:



(In millions)Cash consideration$787Consideration attributable to stock issued(1)1,896Consideration attributable to converted stock options(2)8Total consideration transferred$2,691









(1)The fair value of Apache’s common stock on the acquisition
    date was $110.25 per share based on the closing value on the
    NYSE. Apache issued 17.2 million shares of Apache common
    stock in exchange for Mariner common and restricted stock as
    part of consideration.(2)On the effective date of the merger, Apache exchanged 145,438
    stock options for options held by Mariner employees with a fair
    value of $8 million, determined using the Black-Scholes
    option pricing model.



Recording
    of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed



The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method
    of accounting, which requires, among other things, that assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair
    values as of the acquisition date.The
    following table summarizes the preliminary estimates of the
    assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the merger. The final
    determination of fair value for certain assets and liabilities
    will be completed as soon as the information necessary to
    complete the analysis is obtained. These amounts will be
    finalized as soon as possible, but no later than one year from
    the acquisition date.



(In millions)Current assets$172Property, plant and equipment4,523Goodwill(1)843Other assets44Total assets acquired$5,582Current liabilities158Long-term debt(2)1,656Asset retirement obligation537Deferred income tax liabilities509Other long-term obligations31Total liabilities assumed$2,891Net assets acquired$2,691









(1)Goodwill was the excess of the consideration transferred over
    the net assets recognized and represents the future economic
    benefits arising from assets acquired that could not be
    individually identified and separately

F-16




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



recognized. Goodwill is not amortized and is not deductible for
    tax purposes, but is subject to an impairment test annually and
    when other impairment conditions arise.(2)Long-term debt was recognized based on market rates on the date
    of closing (Level 2). Long-term debt at closing was as follows:



Bank debt:(In millions)Revolving Credit Facility$632Senior notes:7.5% due 2013 includes premium of $10 million31011.75% due 2016 includes premium of $81 million3818% due 2017 includes premium of $33 million333Total Long-term debt$1,656





Outstanding bank facility borrowings of $632 million were
    repaid immediately following closing through borrowings under
    Apache’s commercial paper facility. During the fourth
    quarter of 2010, all remaining assumed debt was repaid with net
    proceeds from the issuance of new debt, as discussed further in
    Note 5 — Debt, and with existing cash balances.



BP
    Acquisitions



In July 2010 Apache entered into three definitive purchase and
    sale agreements to acquire the properties described below from
    subsidiaries of BP plc (collectively referred to as
    “BP”) for aggregate consideration of
    $7.0 billion, subject to customary adjustments. The
    effective date of the transactions was July 1, 2010.
    Preferential purchase rights for approximately $658 million
    of the value of the BP properties in the Permian Basin were
    exercised, and accordingly, the purchase price for the BP
    properties was reduced to approximately $6.4 billion,
    subject to normal post-closing adjustments.



Permian
    Basin



On August 10, 2010, Apache completed the acquisition of
    BP’s oil and gas operations, related infrastructure and
    acreage in the Permian Basin of west Texas and New Mexico. The
    acquired assets, net of preferential purchase rights exercised,
    include interests in several field areas, including
    Block 16/Coy Waha, Brown Basset, Empire/Yeso, Pegasus,
    Southeast Lea, Spraberry, Wilshire, and Delaware Penn,
    approximately 405,000 net mineral and fee acres,
    approximately 351,000 leasehold acres and three gas processing
    plants. The Permian Basin assets had estimated net proved
    reserves of 124 MMboe (unaudited) (64 percent liquid
    hydrocarbons, or “liquids”) as of the effective date.
    Theagreed-uponpurchase price of $3.1 billion was reduced by
    $658 million for the exercise of preferential rights to
    purchase. Apache allocated $2.0 billion of the purchase
    price to proved property, $259 million to unproved property
    and $183 million to gas plant facilities. Apache also
    recorded abandonment obligations for the properties of
    $19 million and a reserve for environmental remediation of
    $11 million. BP continued to operate the properties on
    Apache’s behalf through November 30, 2010.



Western
    Canada Sedimentary Basin



On October 8, 2010, Apache completed the acquisition of
    substantially all of BP’s Western Canadian upstream natural
    gas assets, including approximately 1,278,000 net mineral
    and leasehold acres, interests in approximately 1,800 active
    wells and eight operated and 15 non-operated gas processing
    plants. The position includes many drilling opportunities
    ranging from conventional to several unconventional targets,
    such as shale gas, tight gas and coal bed methane in
    historically productive formations including the Montney,
    Cadomin and Doig. These properties had estimated net proved
    reserves of 224 MMboe (unaudited) (94 percent gas) as
    of the effective date. The purchase price was
    $3.25 billion, subject to normal post-closing adjustments.
    Apache allocated $2.7 billion of the purchase price to

F-17




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



proved property, $533 million to unproved property and
    $150 million to gas plant facilities. Apache also recorded
    abandonment obligations for the properties of $58 million
    and a reserve for environmental remediation of $98 million.



Western
    Desert, Egypt



On November 4, 2010, Apache completed the acquisition of
    BP’s interests in four development licenses and one
    exploration concession (East Badr El Din) in the Western Desert
    of Egypt. These properties, covering 394,000 net acres
    south of El Alamein, are operated by Gulf of Suez Petroleum
    Company, a joint venture between BP and the Government of Egypt.
    The transaction includes BP’s interests in 65 active wells,
    a24-inchgas line, a liquefied petroleum gas plant in Dashour, a gas
    processing plant in Abu Gharadig and a portion of a12-inchoil
    export line to the El Hamra Terminal on the Mediterranean Sea.
    These properties had estimated net proved reserves of
    20 MMboe (unaudited) (59 percent liquids) as of the
    effective date. The merged concession agreement related to the
    development licenses runs through 2024, subject to a five-year
    extension at the option of the operator. The purchase price was
    $650 million, subject to normal post-closing adjustments.
    Apache allocated $325 million of the purchase price to
    proved property, $145 million to unproved property and
    $150 million to gas plant facilities.



The Company financed the purchase of properties from BP by
    issuing a combination of common stock and mandatory convertible
    preferred shares, raising net proceeds of $3.5 billion;
    securing a bridge loan facility; issuing new term debt and
    commercial paper; and using existing cash balances. For further
    discussion of these debt instruments and equity issuances,
    please see Note 5 — Debt and
    Note 7 — Capital Stock, respectively.



Actual
    and Pro Forma Impact of Acquisitions (Unaudited)



Revenues attributable to the Devon acquisition, BP acquisitions
    and Mariner merger included in Apache’s statement of
    consolidated operations for the year ended December 31,
    2010, were $197 million, $308 million and
    $95 million, respectively. Direct expenses attributable to
    the acquisitions and merger included in the statement of
    consolidated operations for the same period were
    $39 million, $78 million and $26 million,
    respectively.



The following table presents pro forma information for Apache as
    if the acquisition of properties from Devon and BP and the
    Mariner merger occurred on January 1, 2009:



For the Year Ended December 31,20102009(In millions, except per share amounts)Revenues and Other$13,780$10,717Net Income (Loss)$3,364$(477)Preferred Stock Dividends7683Income (Loss) Attributable to Common Stock3,288(560)Net Income (Loss) per Common Share — Basic$8.62$(1.48)Net Income (Loss) per Common Share — Diluted$8.52$(1.48)





The historical financial information was adjusted to give effect
    to the pro forma events that were directly attributable to the
    acquisitions and merger and factually supportable. The unaudited
    pro forma consolidated results are not necessarily indicative of
    what the Company’s consolidated results of operations
    actually would have been had the acquisitions and merger been
    completed on January 1, 2009. In addition, the unaudited
    pro forma consolidated results do not purport to project the
    future results of operations of the combined company. The
    unaudited pro forma consolidated results reflect the following
    pro forma adjustments:



•Adjustment to recognize incremental depreciation, depletion and
    amortization expense, using theunits-of-productionmethod, resulting from the purchase of the properties;

F-18




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)





•Adjustment to recognize adjusted general and administrative
    expense as a result of the purchase of the properties;•Adjustment to recognize issuance of $1.5 billion principal
    amount of senior unsecured 5.1-percent notes maturing
    September 1, 2040, associated deferred financing cost
    amortization and interest expense, net of amounts capitalized;•Adjustment to recognize asset retirement obligation accretion on
    properties acquired;•Adjustment to recognize a pro forma income tax provision;•Adjustment to recognize the issuance of 26.45 million
    shares of Apache common stock to partially fund the BP
    acquisitions and 17.3 million shares to partially fund the
    Mariner merger;•Adjustment to recognize the issuance of 25.3 million
    depositary shares each representing a 1/20th interest in a
    share of Apache’s 6.00-percent Mandatory Convertible
    Preferred Stock, Series D, issued to fund a portion of the
    BP acquisitions;•Adjustment to recognize additional dividends associated with the
    issuance of 6.00-percent Mandatory Convertible Preferred
    Stock; and•Elimination of transaction costs incurred in 2010 that are
    directly related to the transactions and do not have a
    continuing impact on the combined company’s operating
    results.



Merger,
    Acquisitions & Transition Expenses



In 2010, Apache recorded $183 million of expenses in
    connection with the acquisition of properties from BP and the
    Mariner merger: $114 million of separation and other
    payroll costs; $42 million of investment banking fees; and
    $27 million of other expenses related to the transactions.



3.DERIVATIVE
    INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES



Objectives
    and Strategies



The Company is exposed to fluctuations in crude oil and natural
    gas prices on the majority of its worldwide production.
    Management believes it is prudent to manage the variability in
    cash flows by entering into hedges on a portion of its crude oil
    and natural gas production. The Company utilizes various types
    of derivative financial instruments, including swaps and
    options, to manage fluctuations in cash flows resulting from
    changes in commodity prices. Derivative instruments entered into
    are typically designated as cash flow hedges.



Counterparty
    Risk



The use of derivative instruments exposes the Company to
    counterparty credit risk, or the risk that a counterparty will
    be unable to meet its commitments. To reduce the concentration
    of exposure to any individual counterparty, Apache utilizes a
    diversified group of investment-grade rated counterparties,
    primarily financial institutions, for its derivative
    transactions. As of December 31, 2010, Apache had
    derivative positions with 20 counterparties. The Company
    monitors counterparty creditworthiness on an ongoing basis;
    however, it cannot predict sudden changes in
    counterparties’ creditworthiness. In addition, even if such
    changes are not sudden, the Company may be limited in its
    ability to mitigate an increase in counterparty credit risk.
    Should one of these counterparties not perform, Apache may not
    realize the benefit of some of its derivative instruments
    resulting from lower commodity prices.



The Company executes commodity derivative transactions under
    master agreements that have netting provisions that provide for
    offsetting payables against receivables. In general, if a party
    to a derivative transaction incurs a material deterioration in
    its credit ratings, as defined in the applicable agreement, the
    other party has the right to demand the posting of collateral,
    demand a transfer or terminate the arrangement.

F-19




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Commodity
    Derivative Instruments

As of December 31, 2010, Apache had the following open
    crude oil derivative positions:



Fixed-Price SwapsCollarsWeightedWeightedWeightedAverageAverageAverageProduction PeriodMbblsFixed Price(1)MbblsFloor Price(1)Ceiling Price(1)20115,628$73.3630,110$69.13$96.5920123,78672.269,14269.3098.1120131,86074.382,41678.02103.0620147674.50———









(1)Crude oil prices represent a weighted average of several
    contracts entered into on a per barrel basis. Crude oil
    contracts are primarily settled against NYMEX WTI Cushing Index.
    A portion of 2011 contracts are settled against Dated Brent.



In the fourth quarter of 2010 Apache North Sea Ltd entered into
    a physical sales contract to deliver 20 thousand barrels of oil
    per day in 2011, settled against Dated Brent with a floor price
    of $70 and an average ceiling price of $98.56. These sales are
    in the normal course of business and will be recognized in oil
    and gas revenues on an accrual basis.



As of December 31, 2010, Apache had the following open
    natural gas derivative positions:



Fixed-Price SwapsWeightedCollarsAverageWeightedWeightedMMBtuGJFixedMMBtuGJAverageAverageProduction Period(in 000’s)(in 000’s)Price(1)(in 000’s)(in 000’s)Floor Price(1)Ceiling Price(1)201175,927—$6.009,125—$5.00$8.852011—51,100C$6.26—3,650C$6.50C$7.10201241,554—$6.3021,960—$5.54$7.302012—43,920C$6.61—7,320C$6.50C$7.2720137,665—$6.836,825—$5.35$6.672014755—$7.23——$—$—









(1)U.S. natural gas prices represent a weighted average of several
    contracts entered into on a per million British thermal units
    (MMBtu) basis and are settled primarily against NYMEX Henry Hub
    and various Inside FERC indices. The Canadian gas contracts are
    entered into on a per gigajoule (GJ) basis and are settled
    against AECO Index. The Canadian natural gas prices represent a
    weighted average of AECO Index prices and are shown in Canadian
    dollars.



Fair
    Values of Derivative Instruments Recorded in the Consolidated
    Balance Sheet



The Company accounts for derivative instruments and hedging
    activity in accordance with ASC Topic 815, “Derivatives and
    Hedging,” and all derivative instruments are reflected as
    either assets or liabilities at fair value in the consolidated
    balance sheet. These fair values are recorded by netting asset
    and liability positions where

F-20




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



counterparty master netting arrangements contain provisions for
    net settlement.The
    fair market value of the Company’s derivative assets and
    liabilities and their locations on the consolidated balance
    sheet are as follows:



December 31,December 31,20102009(In millions)Current Assets: Prepaid assets and other$167$13Other Assets: Deferred charges and other13951Total Assets$306$64Current Liabilities: Derivative instruments$194$128Noncurrent Liabilities: Other124202Total Liabilities$318$330





The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair values of
    the Company’s commodity derivative instruments and gross
    amounts of commodity derivative assets and liabilities are more
    fully discussed in Note 9 — Fair Value
    Measurements.



Commodity
    Derivative Activity Recorded in Statement of Consolidated
    Operations



The following table summarizes the effect of derivative
    instruments on the Company’s statement of consolidated
    operations:



For the Year EndedGain (Loss) on DerivativesDecember 31,Recognized in Operations201020092008(In millions)Gain (loss) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss) into operations (effective portion)Oil and Gas Production Revenues$165$181$(436)Gain (loss) on derivatives recognized in operations (ineffective
    portion and basis swaps)Revenues and Other: Other$(2)$(4)$4





Commodity
    Derivative Activity in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
    (Loss)



As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s derivative
    instruments were designated as cash flow hedges in accordance
    with ASC Topic 815.A
    reconciliation of the components of accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) in the statement of consolidated
    shareholders’ equity related to Apache’s cash flow
    hedges is presented in the table below:



201020092008Before taxAfter taxBefore taxAfter taxBefore taxAfter tax(In millions)Unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives at beginning of year$(267)$(170)$212$138$(639)$(412)Realized (gain) loss reclassified into earnings(165)(106)(181)(123)436282Net change in derivative fair value376256(297)(184)415268Ineffectiveness reclassified into earnings21(1)(1)——Unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives at end of year$(54)$(19)$(267)$(170)$212$138





Gains and losses on existing hedges will be realized in future
    earnings through mid-2014, in the same period as the related
    sales of natural gas and crude oil production applicable to
    specific hedges. Included in accumulated other comprehensive
    loss as of December 31, 2010 is a net loss of approximately
    $45 million ($24 million after tax)

F-21




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



that applies to the next 12 months; however, estimated and
    actual amounts are likely to vary materially as a result of
    changes in market conditions.



4.ASSET
    RETIREMENT OBLIGATION



The following table describes changes to the Company’s ARO
    liability for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:



20102009(In millions)Asset retirement obligation at beginning of year$1,784$1,895Liabilities incurred270213Liabilities acquired8475Liabilities settled(329)(508)Accretion expense111105Revisions in estimated liabilities18974Asset retirement obligation at end of year2,8721,784Less current portion(407)(147)Asset retirement obligation, long-term$2,465$1,637





The ARO liability reflects the estimated present value of the
    amount of dismantlement, removal, site reclamation and similar
    activities associated with Apache’s oil and gas properties.
    The Company utilizes current retirement costs to estimate the
    expected cash outflows for retirement obligations. The Company
    estimates the ultimate productive life of the properties, a
    risk-adjusted discount rate and an inflation factor in order to
    determine the current present value of this obligation. To the
    extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present
    value of the existing ARO liability, a corresponding adjustment
    is made to the oil and gas property balance.



During 2010, the Company recorded additional abandonment
    liabilities of $847 million related to the properties
    acquired in the BP, Devon and Mariner transactions. Apache also
    recorded additional abandonment liabilities of $270 million
    associated with its drilling and development program during the
    year.



Liabilities settled in 2010 relate to individual properties,
    platforms and facilities plugged and abandoned during the
    period. The Company has an active abandonment program with a
    majority of the activity in the Gulf of Mexico and Canada. In
    September 2010 the Bureau of Ocean Management, Regulation and
    Enforcement (BOEMRE, formerly known as the Minerals Management
    Service), a division of the U.S. Department of the
    Interior, issued Notice to Lessees (NTL)No. 2010-G05,which includes guidelines for decommissioning idle
    infrastructure on active leases in the Gulf of Mexico within a
    specified period of time. The Company has reviewed its Gulf of
    Mexico abandonment program in light of these new regulations and
    adjusted the timing of its abandonment program accordingly.

F-22




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)5.DEBTDecember 31,20102009(In millions)U.S.:Money market lines of credit$16$—Unsecured committed bank credit facilities——Commercial paper913—6.25% notes due 20124004005.25% notes due 20135005006.0% notes due 20134004005.625% notes due 20175005006.9% notes due 20184004007.0% notes due 20181501507.625% notes due 20191501503.625% notes due 2021500—7.7% notes due 20261001007.95% notes due 20261801806.0% notes due 20371,0001,0005.1% notes due 20401,500—5.25% notes due 2042500—7.375% debentures due 20471501507.625% debentures due 20961501507,5094,080Subsidiary and other obligations:Argentina overdraft lines of credit307Apache PVG secured facility—350Notes due in 2016 and 201711Apache Finance Canada 4.375% notes due 2015350350Apache Finance Canada 7.75% notes due 20293003006811,008Debt at face value8,1905,088Unamortized discount(49)(21)Total debt8,1415,067Current maturities(46)(117)Long-term debt$8,095$4,950F-23




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Debt maturities as of December 31, 2010, excluding
    discounts, are as follows:



(In millions)2011$46201240020131,8132014—2015350Thereafter5,581Total Debt, excluding discounts$8,190





Overview



All of the Company’s debt is senior unsecured debt and has
    equal priority with respect to the payment of both principal and
    interest.



The indentures for the notes described above place certain
    restrictions on the Company, including limits on Apache’s
    ability to incur debt secured by certain liens and its ability
    to enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions. Upon
    certain changes in control, all of these debt instruments would
    be subject to mandatory repurchase, at the option of the
    holders. None of the indentures for the notes contain prepayment
    obligations in the event of a decline in credit ratings.



Money
    Market and Overdraft Lines of Credit



The Company has certain uncommitted money market and overdraft
    lines of credit that are used from time to time for working
    capital purposes. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    $46 million and $7 million, respectively, was drawn on
    facilities in the U.S. and Argentina.



Unsecured
    Committed Bank Credit Facilities



As of December 31, 2010, the Company had unsecured
    committed revolving syndicated bank credit facilities totaling
    $3.3 billion, of which $1.0 billion matures in August
    2011 and $2.3 billion matures in May 2013. The facilities
    consist of a $1.0 billion364-dayfacility, a $1.5 billion facility and a $450 million
    facility in the U.S., a $200 million facility in Australia
    and a $150 million facility in Canada. As of
    December 31, 2010, available borrowing capacity under the
    Company’s credit facilities was $2.4 billion. The
    U.S. credit facilities are used to support Apache’s
    commercial paper program.



The financial covenants of the credit facilities require the
    Company to maintain adebt-to-capitalizationratio of not greater than 60 percent at the end of any
    fiscal quarter. The Company’sdebt-to-capitalizationratio at December 31, 2010 was 25 percent.



The negative covenants include restrictions on the
    Company’s ability to create liens and security interests on
    its assets, with exceptions for liens typically arising in the
    oil and gas industry, purchase money liens and liens arising as
    a matter of law, such as tax and mechanics’ liens. The
    Company may incur liens on assets located in the U.S. and
    Canada of up to five percent of the Company’s consolidated
    assets, or approximately $2.2 billion as of
    December 31, 2010. There are no restrictions on incurring
    liens in countries other than the U.S. and Canada. There
    are also restrictions on Apache’s ability to merge with
    another entity, unless the Company is the surviving entity, and
    a restriction on its ability to guarantee debt of entities not
    within its consolidated group.



There are no clauses in the facilities that permit the lenders
    to accelerate payments or refuse to lend based on unspecified
    material adverse changes. The credit facility agreements do not
    have drawdown restrictions or prepayment obligations in the
    event of a decline in credit ratings. However, the agreements
    allow the lenders

F-24




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



to accelerate payments and terminate lending commitments if
    Apache Corporation, or any of its U.S. or Canadian
    subsidiaries, defaults on any direct payment obligation in
    excess of $100 million or has any unpaid, non-appealable
    judgment against it in excess of $100 million.



The Company was in compliance with the terms of the credit
    facilities as of December 31, 2010.



At the Company’s option, the interest rate for the
    facilities, excluding the364-dayfacility discussed below, is based on a base rate, as defined,
    or the London Inter-bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin
    determined by the Company’s senior long-term debt rating.
    The $1.5 billion and the $450 million credit
    facilities also allow the Company to borrow under competitive
    auctions.



At December 31, 2010, the margin over LIBOR for committed
    loans was .19 percent on the $1.5 billion facility and
    .23 percent on the $450 million facility in the U.S.,
    the $200 million facility in Australia and the
    $150 million facility in Canada. If the total amount of the
    loans borrowed under the $1.5 billion facility equals or
    exceeds 50 percent of the total facility commitments, then
    an additional .05 percent will be added to the margins over
    LIBOR. If the total amount of the loans borrowed under all of
    the other three facilities equals or exceeds 50 percent of
    the total facility commitments, then an additional
    .10 percent will be added to the margins over LIBOR. The
    Company also pays quarterly facility fees of .06 percent on
    the total amount of the $1.5 billion facility and
    .07 percent on the total amount of the other three
    facilities. The facility fees vary based upon the Company’s
    senior long-term debt rating.



On August 13, 2010, Apache entered into a $1.0 billion364-daysyndicated revolving credit facility. The credit facility is
    subject to covenants, events of default and representations and
    warranties that are substantially similar to those in
    Apache’s existing revolving credit facilities. It may be
    used for acquisitions and for general corporate purposes or to
    support the Company’s commercial paper program.



The facility will terminate and all amounts outstanding will be
    due on August 12, 2011, unless Apache requests a364-dayextension, which is subject to lender approval, as defined, or
    Apache elects a one-year term out option. Loans under the
    facility will bear interest at a base rate, as defined, or at
    LIBOR plus a margin, which varies based upon prices reported in
    the credit default swap market with respect to Apache’s
    one-year indebtedness and the rating for Apache’s senior,
    unsecured long-term debt. Based upon prices for Apache’s
    one-year credit default swaps and its current senior unsecured
    long-term debt rating, the margin at December 31, 2010,
    would be .75 percent. Apache must also pay a commitment fee
    on the undrawn portion of the facility which is based on its
    senior, unsecured long-term debt rating. The commitment fee is
    currently .125 percent.



Commercial
    Paper Program



In August 2010 the Company increased its commercial paper
    program from $1.95 billion to $2.95 billion. The
    commercial paper program generally enables Apache to borrow
    funds for up to 270 days at competitive interest rates.
    Apache’s 2010 weighted-average interest rate for commercial
    paper was .37 percent. If the Company is unable to issue
    commercial paper following a significant credit downgrade or
    dislocation in the market, the Company’s U.S. credit
    facilities are available as a 100-percent backstop. The
    commercial paper program is fully supported by available
    borrowing capacity under U.S. committed credit facilities,
    which expire in 2011 and 2013. As of December 31, 2010, the
    Company had $913 million in commercial paper outstanding.
    There was no outstanding commercial paper at December 31,
    2009.



Debt
    Issuances



On August 20, 2010, the Company issued $1.5 billion
    principal amount of senior unsecured 5.1-percent notes maturing
    September 1, 2040. The notes are redeemable, as a whole or
    in part, at Apache’s option, subject to a make-whole
    premium. The proceeds were used to repay borrowings under the
    Company’s bridge facility and commercial paper program.

F-25




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



On December 3, 2010, the Company issued $500 million
    principal amount of senior unsecured 3.625-percent notes
    maturing February 1, 2021, and $500 million principal
    amount of senior unsecured 5.25-percent notes maturing
    February 1, 2042. The notes are redeemable, as a whole or
    in part, at Apache’s option, subject to a make-whole
    premium. The proceeds were used to redeem the outstanding public
    debt assumed upon completion of Apache’s acquisition of
    Mariner Energy Inc. on November 10, 2010.



U.S. Debt



The U.S. 6.25-percent, 5.625-percent, 6.9-percent,
    3.625-percent, 5.1-percent and both issues of 5.25-percent and
    6.0-percent notes are redeemable, as a whole or in part, at
    Apache’s option, subject to a make-whole premium. The
    remaining U.S. notes and debentures are not redeemable.
    Under certain conditions, the Company has the right to advance
    maturity on the U.S. 7.375-percent debentures due 2047 and
    7.625-percent debentures due 2096.



Subsidiary
    Notes



Apache Finance CanadaApache Finance
    Canada Corporation (Apache Finance Canada) has approximately
    $300 million of publicly-traded notes due in 2029 and an
    additional $350 million of publicly-traded notes due in
    2015 that are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Apache.



For further discussion of subsidiary debt, please see
    Note 14 — Supplemental Guarantor Information.



Apache DeepwaterApache Deepwater
    assumed publicly traded debt upon consummation of its merger
    with Mariner. Mariner’s publicly traded debt included
    $300 million of 7.5-percent senior notes due 2013,
    $300 million of 11.75-percent senior notes due 2016, and
    $300 million of 8-percent senior notes due 2017. On
    December 13, 2010, Apache Deepwater redeemed the
    7.5-percent notes, the 8-percent notes, and 35 percent of
    the 11.75-percent notes pursuant to the provisions of each
    note’s indenture. On December 14, 2010, Apache
    Deepwater redeemed the remaining 65 percent of the
    11.75-percent notes.



Subsidiary
    Project Financing



In June 2010 one of the Company’s Australian subsidiaries
    repaid $50 million under its amortizing secured revolving
    syndicated credit facility for its Van Gogh and Pyrenees oil
    developments offshore Western Australia. The remaining balance
    of $300 million was repaid in December 2010. Upon repayment
    of the remaining balance of the facility, all commitments under
    the facility were terminated and assets secured by the facility
    were released.



Financing
    Costs, Net



Financing costs incurred during the periods are composed of the
    following:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)Interest expense$345$309$280Amortization of deferred loan costs1764Capitalized interest(120)(61)(94)Interest income(13)(12)(24)Total Financing costs, net$229$242$166





The Company has $49 million of debt discounts as of
    December 31, 2010, which will be charged to interest
    expense over the life of the related debt issuances. In
    connection with the 2010 debt issuances discussed above, Apache
    recorded $30 million in additional debt discounts. Discount
    amortization of $2 million, $1 million and
    $1 million were recorded as interest expense in 2010, 2009
    and 2008, respectively.

F-26




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had
    approximately $53 million and $40 million,
    respectively, of unamortized deferred loan costs associated with
    its various debt obligations. These costs are included in
    deferred charges and other in the accompanying consolidated
    balance sheet and are being charged to financing costs and
    expensed over the life of the related debt issuances.



6.INCOME
    TAXES



Income before income taxes is composed of the following:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)United States$1,328$(567)$(350)Foreign3,8788931,282Total$5,206$326$932





The total provision for income taxes consists of the following:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)Current taxes:Federal$25$(130)$128State4(2)1Foreign1,1939741,3271,2228421,456Deferred taxes:Federal431(81)(414)State7(24)3Foreign514(126)(825)952(231)(1,236)Total$2,174$611$220





A reconciliation of the tax on the Company’s income before
    income taxes and total tax expense is shown below:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)Income tax expense at U.S. statutory rate$1,822$114$326State income tax, less federal benefit6(17)3Taxes related to foreign operations245310430Tax credits(8)(39)—Non-deductible merger costs6——Current and deferred taxes related to currency fluctuations111195(400)Domestic manufacturing deduction——(7)Net change in tax contingencies(2)36(140)Increase in valuation allowance12203All other, net(18)(8)5$2,174$611$220



F-27




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



The net deferred tax liability consists of the following:



December 31,20102009(In millions)Deferred tax assets:Deferred income$(6)$(20)Federal and state net operating loss carryforwards(277)(35)Foreign net operating loss carryforwards(55)(225)Tax credits(42)(48)Accrued expenses and liabilities(76)(105)Other(25)(60)Total deferred tax assets(481)(493)Valuation allowance5335Net deferred tax assets(428)(458)Deferred tax liabilities:Depreciation, depletion and amortization4,5693,068Total deferred tax liabilities4,5693,068Net deferred income tax liability$4,141$2,610





The Company has not recorded U.S. deferred income taxes on
    the undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries as
    management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings. As of
    December 31, 2010, the undistributed earnings of the
    foreign subsidiaries amounted to approximately
    $19.2 billion. Upon distribution of these earnings in the
    form of dividends or otherwise, the Company may be subject to
    U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. It is not
    practical, however, to estimate the amount of taxes that may be
    payable on the eventual remittance of these earnings after
    consideration of available foreign tax credits. Presently,
    limited foreign tax credits are available to reduce the
    U.S. taxes on such amounts if repatriated.



On December 31, 2010, the Company had U.S. net
    operating losses of $656 million, state net operating loss
    carryforwards of $862 million and foreign net operating
    loss carryforwards of $59 million in Canada and
    $20 million in Argentina. The Company also had
    $234 million of capital loss carryforwards in Canada. The
    state net operating losses will expire over the next
    20 years if they are not otherwise utilized. The foreign
    net operating loss in Canada will begin to expire in 2014, and
    the Argentina net operating loss will begin to expire in 2011.
    The capital loss in Canada has an indefinite carryover period.



The Company’s federal net operating loss carryforward of
    $636 million is related to the merger with Mariner and is
    subject to annual limitations under Section 382 of the
    Internal Revenue Code.



The tax benefits of carryforwards are recorded as assets to the
    extent that management assesses the utilization of such
    carryforwards to be “more likely than not.” When the
    future utilization of some portion of the carryforwards is
    determined to not meet the “more likely than not”
    standard, a valuation allowance is provided to reduce the tax
    benefits from such assets. As the Company does not believe the
    utilization of certain Canadian capital losses and certain
    Argentina and U.S. state net operating losses to be
    “more likely than not,” a valuation allowance was
    provided to reduce the tax benefit from these deferred tax
    assets.

F-28




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Apache accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic
    740, “Income Taxes,” which prescribes a minimum
    recognition threshold a tax position must meet before being
    recognized in the financial statements.A
    reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:



201020092008(In millions)Balance at beginning of year$123$213$508Additions based on tax positions related to the current year(1)23—Additions for tax positions of prior years—7748Reductions for tax positions of prior years(12)(92)(337)Settlements—(98)(6)Balance at end of year$110$123$213





Included in the balances at December 31, 2010 and 2009 are
    $14 million of tax positions for which the ultimate
    deductibility is highly certain, but for which there is
    uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. Because of
    the impact of deferred tax accounting, other than penalties and
    interest, the disallowance of the shorter deductibility period
    would not affect the annual effective income tax rate but would
    accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an
    earlier period.



The Company records interest and penalties related to
    unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
    Each quarter the Company assesses the amounts provided for and,
    as a result, may increase (expense) or reduce (benefit) the
    amount of interest and penalties. During the years ended
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded tax
    expense of $12 million and a benefit of $17 million,
    respectively. In 2008, the Company recorded a tax benefit of
    $87 million for interest and penalties. As of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had approximately
    $36 million and $24 million, respectively, accrued for
    payment of interest and penalties.



The Company is in Administrative Appeals with the
    U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regarding the tax years
    2004 through 2007. The Company is also under IRS audit for 2008
    and under audit in various states and in most of the
    Company’s foreign jurisdictions as part of its normal
    course of business. Resolution of any of the above, which may
    occur in 2011, could result in a significant change to the
    Company’s tax reserves. However, the resolution of unagreed
    tax issues in the Company’s open tax years cannot be
    predicted with absolute certainty, and differences between what
    has been recorded and the eventual outcomes may occur. Due to
    this uncertainty and the uncertain timing of the final
    resolution of the Appeals process, an accurate estimate of the
    range of outcomes occurring during the next 12 months
    cannot be made at this time. Nevertheless, the Company believes
    that it has adequately provided for income taxes and any related
    interest and penalties for all open tax years.



Apache and its subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal
    income tax as well as income tax in various states and foreign
    jurisdictions.The
    Company’s uncertain tax positions are related to tax years
    that may be subject to examination by the relevant taxing
    authority. Apache’s earliest open tax years in its key
    jurisdictions are as follows:



JurisdictionUnited States2004Canada2006Egypt1998Australia2001United Kingdom2009Argentina2003



F-29




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



7.CAPITAL
    STOCK



Common
    Stock Outstanding



201020092008Balance, beginning of year336,436,972334,710,064332,927,143Shares issued for stock-based compensation plans:Treasury shares issued363,263404,232350,895Common shares issued1,864,4981,322,6761,432,026Equity offering (BP acquisitions)26,450,000——Mariner consideration17,277,009——Balance, end of year382,391,742336,436,972334,710,064





Net
    Income (Loss) Per Common Share



A reconciliation of the components of basic and diluted net
    income (loss) per common share for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is presented in the table
    below. The loss for 2009 reflects an after-tax write-down for
    full-cost accounting of $1.98 billion. Income for 2008
    reflects an after-tax write-down for full-cost accounting of
    $3.6 billion.



201020092008IncomeSharesPer ShareLossSharesPer ShareIncomeSharesPer Share(In millions, except per share amounts)Basic:Income (loss) attributable to common stock$3,000352$8.53$(292)336$(.87)$706334$2.11Effect of Dilutive Securities:Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock$325$——$——Stock options and other—2———3Diluted:Income (loss) attributable to common stock, including assumed
    conversions$3,032359$8.46$(292)336$(.87)$706337$2.09





The diluted earnings per share calculation excludes options and
    restricted shares that were anti-dilutive totaling
    2.3 million, 4.2 million and .7 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Issuance
    of Common Stock



On July 28, 2010, in conjunction with Apache’s
    acquisition of properties from BP, the Company issued
    26.45 million shares of common stock at a public offering
    price of $88 per share. Proceeds, after underwriting discounts
    and before expenses, from the common stock offering totaled
    approximately $2.3 billion.



On November 10, 2010, in connection with the Mariner
    merger, Apache issued 17.3 million shares of common stock
    in exchange for Mariner common and restricted stock. The total
    value of stock consideration, based on the November 10,
    2010, closing value on the NYSE of $110.25 per share, was
    approximately $1.9 billion.



For further discussion of the BP acquisitions and Mariner
    merger, please see Note 2 — Acquisitions.

F-30




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Common
    Stock Dividend



The Company paid common stock dividends of $.60, $.60 and $.70
    per share in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The higher
    common stock dividends for 2008 were attributable to a special
    cash dividend of 10 cents per common share paid on
    March 18, 2008.



Stock
    Compensation Plans



The Company has several stock-based compensation plans, which
    include stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
    stock, and performance-based share appreciation plans. In May
    2007, the Company’s shareholders approved the 2007 Omnibus
    Equity Compensation Plan (the 2007 Plan), which is intended to
    provide eligible employees with equity-based incentives. The
    2007 Plan provides for the granting of Incentive Stock Options,
    Non-Qualified Stock Options, Performance Awards, Restricted
    Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, or any
    combination of the foregoing. All new grants are issued from the
    2007 Plan. The previous plans remain in effect solely for the
    purpose of governing grants still outstanding that were issued
    prior to approval of the 2007 Plan, including the
    2005 Share Appreciation Plan, which remains in effect to
    issue shares for previously-attained stock appreciation goals.



For 2010, 2009 and 2008, stock-based compensation expensed was
    $164 million, $104 million and $52 million
    ($106 million, $67 million and $34 million after
    tax), respectively. Costs related to the plans are capitalized
    or expensed based on the nature of each employee’s
    activities.A
    description of the Company’s stock-based compensation plans
    and related costs follows:



201020092008(In millions)Stock-based compensation expensed:General and administrative$98$67$34Lease operating expenses663718Stock-based compensation capitalized714621$235$150$73





Stock
    Options



As of December 31, 2010, officers and employees held
    options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock
    under one or more of the employee stock option plans adopted in
    1998, 2000 and 2005 (collectively, the Stock Option Plans), and
    under the 2007 Plan discussed above. New shares of Company stock
    will be issued for employee stock option exercises; however,
    under the 2000 Stock Option Plan, shares of treasury stock are
    used for employee stock option exercises to the extent treasury
    stock is held. Under the Stock Option Plans and the 2007 Plan,
    the exercise price of each option equals the closing price of
    Apache’s common stock on the date of grant. Options
    generally become exercisable ratably over a four-year period and
    expire 10 years after granted. All of these plans allow for
    accelerated vesting if there is a change in control, as defined
    in each plan. The 2007 Plan and all of the Stock Option Plans,
    except for the 2000 Stock Option Plan, were submitted to and
    approved by the Company’s shareholders.

F-31




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



A summary of stock options issued and outstanding under the
    Stock Option Plans and the 2007 Plan is presented in the table
    and narrative below (shares in thousands):



2010SharesWeighted AverageUnder OptionExercise Price(In thousands)Outstanding, beginning of year5,920$72.29Granted1,21399.30Mariner options converted to Apache options14557.42Exercised(1,266)57.34Forfeited or expired(151)89.44Outstanding, end of year(1)5,86180.30Expected to vest(1)2,11991.84Exercisable, end of year(1)3,24870.62Available for grant, end of year1,970Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year$34.12





(1)As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average remaining
    contractual life for options outstanding, expected to vest, and
    exercisable is 6.6 years, 8.3 years and
    5.2 years, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of
    options outstanding, expected to vest and exercisable at
    year-end was $233 million, $60 million and
    $161 million, respectively. The weighted-average grant-date
    fair value of options granted during the years 2010, 2009 and
    2008 was $34.12, $29.71 and $39.76, respectively.



The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the
    date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
    Assumptions used in the valuation are disclosed in the following
    table. Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility
    of the Company’s common stock and other factors. The
    expected dividend yield is based on historical yields on the
    date of grant. The expected term of stock options granted
    represents the period of time that the stock options are
    expected to be outstanding and is derived from historical
    exercise behavior, current trends and values derived from
    lattice-based models. The risk-free rate is based on the
    U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.



201020092008Expected volatility35.02%38.73%27.93%Expected dividend yields.60%.73%.53%Expected term (in years)5.55.55.5Risk-free rate2.31%2.06%3.04%





The intrinsic value of options exercised during 2010, 2009 and
    2008 was approximately $62 million, $39 million and
    $100 million, respectively. The cash received from exercise
    of options during 2010 was approximately $73 million. The
    Company realized an additional tax benefit of approximately
    $14 million for the amount of intrinsic value in excess of
    compensation cost recognized in 2010. As of December 31,
    2010, the total compensation cost related to non-vested options
    not yet recognized was $62 million, which will be
    recognized over the remaining vesting period of the options.



Stock
    Appreciation Rights



In 2003 and 2004, respectively, the Company issued a total of
    1,809,060 and 1,334,300 of stock appreciation rights (SARs) to
    non-executive employees in lieu of stock options. The SARs
    vested ratably over four years and are

F-32




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



settled in cash upon exercise throughout their10-yearlife. The weighted-average exercise price was $42.68 and $28.78
    for those issued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The number of
    SARs outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2010
    was 595,786. Since SARs are cash-settled, the Company records
    compensation expense based on the fair value of the SARs at the
    end of each period. As of year-end, the weighted-average fair
    value of SARs outstanding was $84.29 based on the Black-Scholes
    valuation methodology using assumptions comparable to those
    discussed above. During 2010, 181,697 SARs were exercised. The
    aggregate of cash payments made to settle SARs was
    $13 million.



Restricted
    Stock and Restricted Stock Units



The Company has restricted stock and restricted stock unit
    plans, including those awarded pursuant to programs under the
    2007 Plan, for eligible employees including officers. The
    programs created under the 2007 Plan have been approved by
    Apache’s Board of Directors. In 2010 the Company awarded
    1,143,989 restricted stock units at a weighted-average per-share
    market price of $103.88. In 2009 and 2008 the Company awarded
    1,119,936 and 787,846 restricted stock units at a
    weighted-average per-share market price of $84.30 and $136.05,
    respectively. The value of the stock issued was established by
    the market price on the date of grant and is being recorded as
    compensation expense ratably over the vesting terms. During
    2010, 2009 and 2008, $73 million ($47 million after
    tax), $37 million ($24 million after tax) and
    $20 million ($13 million after tax), respectively, was
    charged to expense. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, $28 million,
    $12 million and $6 million was capitalized,
    respectively. As of December 31, 2010, there was
    $160 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
    related to 2,209,722 unvested restricted stock units. The
    weighted-average remaining life of unvested restricted stock
    units is approximately 1.3 years.



The fair value of the awards vesting during 2010, 2009 and 2008
    was approximately $69 million, $34 million and
    $15 million, respectively.A summary of restricted stock
    activity for the year ended December 31, 2010 is presented
    below.



Weighted-Average Grant-Restricted StockSharesDate Fair Value(In thousands)Non-vested at January 1, 20101,835$98.95Granted1,144103.88Vested(686)101.27Forfeited(83)100.46Non-vested at December 31, 20102,210100.72





Conditional
    Restricted Stock Units



To provide long-term incentives for Apache employees to deliver
    competitive returns to the Company’s stockholders, in
    January 2010 the Company’s Board of Directors approved the
    2010 Performance Program, pursuant to the 2007 Plan. Eligible
    employees received initial conditional restricted stock unit
    awards totaling 541,465 units. A total of
    523,240 units were outstanding at December 31, 2010,
    from which a minimum of zero and a maximum of
    1,353,663 units could be awarded based upon measurement of
    total shareholder return of Apache common stock as compared to a
    designated peer group during a three-year performance period.
    Should any restricted stock units be awarded at the end of the
    three-year performance period, 50 percent of restricted
    stock units awarded will immediately vest, and an additional
    25 percent will vest on succeeding anniversaries of the end
    of the performance period.



The fair value cost of the awards was estimated on the date of
    grant and is being recorded as compensation expense ratably over
    the vesting terms. During 2010, $7 million ($4 million
    after tax) was charged to expense and $3 million was
    capitalized. As of December 31, 2010, there was
    $65 million of total unrecognized compensation

F-33




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



cost related to 523,240 unvested conditional restricted stock
    units. The weighted-average remaining life of the unvested
    conditional restricted stock units is approximately
    2.8 years.



Weighted-Average Grant-Conditional Restricted Stock AwardSharesDate Fair Value(1)(In thousands)Non-vested at January 1, 2010—$—Granted541141.86Forfeited(18)141.86Non-vested at December 31, 2010523141.86









(1)The fair value of each conditional restricted stock unit award
    is estimated as of the date of grant using a Monte Carlo
    simulation with the following assumptions used for all grants
    made under the plan: (i) a three-year continuous risk-free
    interest rate; (ii) a constant volatility assumption based
    on the historical realized price volatility of the Company and
    the designated peer group; and (iii) the historical stock
    prices and expected dividends of the common stock of the Company
    and its designated peer group.



In January 2011 the Company’s Board of Directors approved
    the 2011 Performance Program, pursuant to the 2007 Plan, with
    terms similar to the 2010 Performance Program. Eligible
    employees received initial conditional restricted stock unit
    awards totaling 585,715 units, with the ultimate number of
    restricted stock units to be awarded ranging from zero to a
    maximum of 1,464,288 units.



Share
    Appreciation Plans



The Company has previously utilized share appreciation plans to
    provide incentives for substantially all full-time employees and
    officers to increase Apache’s share price within a stated
    measurement period. To achieve the payout, the Company’s
    stock price must close at or above a stated threshold for 10 out
    of any 30 consecutive trading days before the end of the stated
    period. Awards under the plans are payable in equal annual
    installments as specified by each plan, beginning on a date not
    more than 30 days after a threshold is attained for the
    required measurement period and on succeeding anniversaries of
    the attainment date. Shares issued to employees are reduced by
    the required minimum tax withholding. Shares of Apache common
    stock contingently issuable under the plans are excluded from
    the computation of income per common share until the stated
    goals are met as described below.



Since 2005, two share appreciation plans have been approved. A
    summary of these plans is as follows:



•On May 7, 2008, the Stock Option Plan Committee of the
    Company’s Board of Directors, pursuant to the
    Company’s 2007 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan, approved
    the 2008 Share Appreciation Program with a target to
    increase Apache’s share price to $216 by the end of 2012
    and an interim goal of $162 to be achieved by the end of 2010.
    Any awards under the program would be payable in five equal
    annual installments. The interim target of $162 was not met by
    the end of 2010, and the related awards were cancelled. The
    $216 share price target has not been met.•On May 5, 2005, the Company’s stockholders approved
    the 2005 Share Appreciation Plan, with a target to increase
    Apache’s share price to $108 by the end of 2008 and an
    interim goal of $81 to be achieved by the end of 2007. Awards
    under the plan are payable in four equal annual installments to
    eligible employees remaining with the Company. Apache’s
    share price exceeded the interim $81 threshold for the10-dayrequirement as of June 14, 2007, and the first and second
    installments were awarded in July 2007 and 2008. The third and
    fourth installments were awarded in June 2009 and 2010.
    Apache’s share price exceeded the $108 threshold for the10-dayrequirement as of February 29, 2008. The first three
    installments were awarded in March 2008, 2009 and 2010, and the
    fourth installment will be awarded in March 2011.

F-34




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



A summary of the number of shares contingently issuable as of
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 for each plan is presented
    in the table below:



Shares Subject toConditional Grants201020092008(In thousands)2008 Share Appreciation ProgramOutstanding, beginning of year2,5922,814—Granted25932,929Forfeited or cancelled(1,132)(315)(115)Outstanding, end of year(1)1,4852,5922,814Weighted-average fair value of grants outstanding(2)$71.16$79.61$81.732005 Share Appreciation PlanOutstanding, beginning of year1,1032,0012,945Issued(3)(678)(815)(805)Forfeited or cancelled(25)(83)(139)Outstanding, end of year4001,1032,001Weighted-average fair value of grants outstanding(4)$21.64$24.29$24.98









(1)Represents shares issuable upon target achievement and vesting
    of awards related to the $216 and $162 per share price goals of
    1,485,210 and zero shares, respectively, at December 31,
    2010; 1,556,160 and 1,035,640 shares, respectively, at
    December 31, 2009; and 1,685,430 and 1,128,320 shares,
    respectively, at December 31, 2008.(2)The fair value of each Share Price Goal conditional grant is
    estimated as of the date of grant using a Monte Carlo simulation
    with the following weighted-average assumptions used for all
    grants made under the plan: (i) risk-free interest rate of
    2.98 percent; (ii) expected volatility of
    28.31 percent; and (iii) expected dividend yield of
    .54 percent.(3)The total fair value of these awards vested during 2010, 2009
    and 2008 was approximately $18 million, $21 million
    and $21 million, respectively.(4)The fair value of each Share Price Goal conditional grant is
    estimated as of the date of grant using a Monte Carlo simulation
    with the following weighted-average assumptions used for all
    grants made under the plan: (i) risk-free interest rate of
    3.95 percent; (ii) expected volatility of
    28.02 percent; and (iii) expected dividend yield of
    .57 percent.



Current accounting practices dictate that the Company recognize,
    over the requisite service period, the fair value cost
    determined at the grant date based on numerous assumptions,
    including an estimate of the likelihood that Apache’s stock
    price will achieve these thresholds and the expected forfeiture
    rate. If a price target is not met before the end of the stated
    achievement period, any unamortized expense must be immediately
    recognized. Since the $162 interim price target of the 2008
    Share Appreciation Program was not met prior to the stated
    achievement period, December 31, 2010, Apache recognized
    $27 million of unamortized expense and $14 million of
    unamortized capital costs. The Company will recognize total
    expense and capitalized costs for the 2008 Share Appreciation
    Program and the 2005 Share Appreciation Plan over the expected
    service life of each program: approximately $195 million
    through 2014 for the 2008 Share Appreciation Program and
    $79 million through 2011

F-35




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



for the 2005 Share Appreciation Plan.A
    summary of the amounts recognized as expense and capitalized
    costs for each plan are detailed in the table below:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)2008 Share Appreciation ProgramCompensation expense$49$23$15Compensation expense, net of tax311510Capitalized costs271382005 Share Appreciation PlanCompensation expense$6$6$9Compensation expense, net of tax446Capitalized costs335





Preferred
    Stock



The Company has 5,000,000 shares of no par preferred stock
    authorized, of which 25,000 shares have been designated as
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the
    Series A Preferred Stock). The Company redeemed the 100,000
    outstanding shares of its 5.68 percent Series B
    Cumulative Preferred Stock (the Series B Preferred Stock)
    on December 30, 2009.



Series A
    Preferred Stock



two-for-one

F-36




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Series B
    Preferred Stock



In August 1998, Apache issued 100,000 shares
    ($100 million) of Series B Preferred Stock in the form
    of one million depositary shares, each representing one-tenth
    (1/10) of a share of Series B Preferred Stock, for net
    proceeds of $98 million. On December 30, 2009, Apache
    redeemed all Series B Preferred Stock at $1,000 per
    preferred share plus $9.47 in accrued and unpaid dividends.
    Holders of the shares were entitled to receive cumulative cash
    dividends at an annual rate of $5.68 per depositary share.
    During 2009 and 2008 Apache accrued a total of $6 million
    each year in dividends on its Series B Preferred Stock
    issued in August 1998. As the final dividend payment was
    accelerated with the redemption of the Series B Preferred
    Stock, Apache paid $7 million in dividends on this stock
    during 2009, compared to $6 million during 2008. These
    preferred shares were redeemed on December 30, 2009.



Series D
    Preferred Stock



On July 28, 2010, Apache issued 25.3 million
    depositary shares, each representing a 1/20th interest in a
    share of Apache’s 6.00-percent Mandatory Convertible
    Preferred Stock, Series D (Preferred Share), or
    1.265 million Preferred Shares. The Company received
    proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion, after underwriting
    discounts and before expenses, from the sale.



Each Preferred Share has an initial liquidation preference of
    $1,000 per share (equivalent to $50 liquidation preference per
    depositary share). When and if declared by the Board of
    Directors, Apache will pay cumulative dividends on each
    Preferred Share at a rate of 6.00 percent per annum on the
    initial liquidation preference. Dividends will be paid in cash
    quarterly on February 1, May 1, August 1 and November
    1 of each year, commencing on November 1, 2010, and until
    and including May 1, 2013. The final dividend payment on
    August 1, 2013, may be paid or delivered, as the case may
    be, in cash, shares of Apache common stock, or a combination
    thereof, at the election of the Company.



The Preferred Shares may be converted, at the option of the
    holder, into 9.164 shares of Apache common stock at any
    time prior to July 15, 2013. If not converted prior to that
    time, each Preferred Share will automatically convert on
    August 1, 2013, into a minimum of 9.164 or a maximum of
    11.364 shares of Apache common stock depending on the
    volume-weighted average price per share of Apache’s common
    stock over the ten trading day period ending on, and including,
    the third scheduled trading day immediately preceding the
    mandatory conversion. Upon conversion, a minimum of
    11.6 million Apache common shares and a maximum of
    14.4 million common shares will be issued.



Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)



Components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    consists of the following:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)Currency translation adjustment(1)$(109)$(109)$(109)Unrealized gain (loss) on derivatives (Note 3)(19)(170)138Unfunded pension and postretirement benefit plan(13)(11)(7)Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)$(141)$(290)$22









(1)Prior to October 1, 2002, the Company’s Canadian
    subsidiaries’ functional currency was the Canadian dollar.
    Translation adjustments resulting from translating the Canadian
    subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollar
    equivalents were reported separately and accumulated in other
    comprehensive income (loss). Currency translation adjustments
    held in other comprehensive income (loss) on the balance sheet
    will remain there indefinitely unless there is a substantially
    complete liquidation of the Company’s Canadian operations.

F-37




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



8.COMMITMENTS
    AND CONTINGENCIES



Legal
    Matters



Apache is party to various legal actions arising in the ordinary
    course of business, including litigation and governmental and
    regulatory controls. The Company has an accrued liability of
    approximately $14 million for all legal contingencies that
    are deemed to be probable of occurring and can be reasonably
    estimated. Apache’s estimates are based on information
    known about the matters and its experience in contesting,
    litigating and settling similar matters. Although actual amounts
    could differ from management’s estimate, none of the
    actions are believed by management to involve future amounts
    that would be material to Apache’s financial position or
    results of operations after consideration of recorded accruals.
    It is management’s opinion that the loss for any other
    litigation matters and claims that are reasonably possible to
    occur will not have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s financial position or results of operations.



Argentine
    Environmental Claims





Louisiana
    Restoration



Numerous surface owners have filed claims or sent demand letters
    to various oil and gas companies, including Apache, claiming
    that, under either expressed or implied lease terms or Louisiana
    law, they are liable for damage measured by the cost of
    restoration of leased premises to their original condition as
    well as damages from contamination and cleanup. Many of these
    lawsuits claim small amounts, while others assert claims in
    excess of $1 million. Also, some lawsuits or claims are
    being settled or resolved, while others are still being filed.
    Any exposure, therefore, related to these lawsuits and claims is
    not currently determinable. While an adverse judgment against
    Apache is possible, Apache intends to actively defend the cases.



Hurricane-Related
    Litigation



In a case styled Ned Comer, et al vs. Murphy Oil USA, Inc.,
    et al, Case No: 1:05-cv-00436; U.S.D.C., United States
    District Court, Southern District of Mississippi, Mississippi
    property owners allege that hurricanes’ meteorological
    effects increased in frequency and intensity due to global
    warming, and there will be continued

F-38




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



en
    banc

en banc

en banc



Australia
    Gas Pipeline Force Majeure





In December 2008 the Senate Economics Committee of the
    Parliament of Australia released its findings from public
    hearings concerning the economic impact of the gas shortage
    following the explosion on Varanus Island and the
    government’s response. The Committee concluded, among other
    things, that the macroeconomic impact to Western Australia will
    never be precisely known, but cited to a range of estimates from
    $300 million AUD to $2.5 billion AUD consisting in
    part of losses alleged by some parties who have long-term
    contracts with Company subsidiaries (as described above), but
    also losses alleged by third parties who do not have contracts
    with Company

F-39




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Johnson Tiles Pty Ltd v.
    Esso Australia Pty Ltd



12-inch

and/or

12-inch

12-inch



Company subsidiaries disagree with NOPSA’s conclusions and
    believe that the NOPSA report is premature, based on an
    incomplete investigation and misleading. In a July 17,
    2008, media statement, DoIR acknowledged, “The pipelines
    and Varanus Island facilities have been the subject of an
    independent validation report [by Lloyd’s Register] which
    was received in August 2007. NOPSA has also undertaken a number
    of inspections between 2005 and the present.” These and
    numerous other inspections, audits and reviews conducted by top
    international consultants and regulators did not identify any
    warnings that the pipeline had a corrosion problem or other
    issues that could lead to its failure. Company subsidiaries
    believe that the explosion was not reasonably foreseeable, and
    was not within the reasonable control of Company’s
    subsidiaries or able to be reasonably prevented by Company
    subsidiaries.



On January 9, 2009, the governments of Western Australia
    and the Commonwealth of Australia announced a joint inquiry to
    consider the effectiveness of the regulatory regime for
    occupational health and safety and integrity that applied to
    operations and facilities at Varanus Island and the role of
    DoIR, NOPSA and the Western Australian Department of Consumer
    and Employment Protection. The joint inquiry’s report was
    published in June 2009.



On May 8, 2009, the government of Western Australia
    announced that its Department of Mines and Petroleum (DMP) will
    carry out “the final stage of investigations into the
    Varanus Island gas explosion.” Inspectors were appointed
    under the Petroleum Pipelines Act to coordinate the final stage
    of the investigations. Their report has been delivered to the
    Minister for Mines and Petroleum, but neither the report nor its
    contents have been made available to Company subsidiaries for
    their review and comment.

F-40




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



On May 28, 2009, the DMP filed a prosecution notice in the
    Magistrates Court of Western Australia, charging Apache
    Northwest Pty Ltd and its co-licensees with failure to maintain
    a pipeline in good condition and repair under the Petroleum
    Pipelines Act 1969, Section 38(b). The maximum fine
    associated with the alleged offense is $50,000 AUD. The Company
    subsidiary does not believe that the charge has merit and plans
    to vigorously pursue its defenses.



Mariner
    Stockholder Lawsuits



City of Livonia
    Employees’ Retirement System, Individually and on Behalf of
    All Others Similarly Situated vs. Mariner Energy, Inc, et al.,

Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation
    Authority, individually, and on behalf of all those similarly
    situated

vs. Scott D. Josey, et.al.,



Escheat
    Audits



The State of Delaware, Department of Finance, Division of
    Revenue (Unclaimed Property), has notified numerous companies,
    including Apache Corporation, that the State intends to examine
    its books and records and those of its subsidiaries and related
    entities to determine compliance with the Delaware Escheat Laws.
    The review will be conducted by Kelmar Associates on behalf of
    the State. At least 30 other states have retained their own
    consultants and have sent similar notifications. The scope of
    each state’s audit varies. The State of Delaware advises,
    for example, that the scope of its examination will be for the
    period 1981 through the present. It is possible that one or more
    of the State audits could extend to all 50 states.



NAL GP
    Ltd Lawsuit



In a lawsuit commenced on September 23, 2010, and styled as
    NAL GP Ltd., Applicant, and BP Canada Energy Company, BP Canada
    Energy, and Apache Corporation, Respondents, ActionNo. 1001-14115,in the Court of Queen’s Bench of Alberta, Judicial District
    of Calgary, NAL GP Ltd. (“NAL”) seeks, among other
    things, interim injunctive relief to freeze the15-daynotice period concerning NAL’s rights of first refusal
    relating to certain of the Canadian assets involved in the
    transaction between BP and Apache announced July 20, 2010,
    and further a hearing concerning the allocated values associated
    with such assets (approximately $1.6 billion USD in the
    aggregate). Apache Corporation was wrongly named as a respondent
    in the proceeding, and so Apache Canada Ltd. has appeared in the
    proceeding. A hearing on NAL’s application was held on
    September 27, 2010. On September 28, 2010, the Court
    dismissed NAL’s application in its entirety. NAL filed an
    appeal. The parties have resolved the matter amicably, including
    the dismissal of the lawsuit and discontinuance of the appeal,
    which resolution did not have a material effect on the Company.



Environmental
    Matters



The Company, as an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas
    properties, is subject to various federal, provincial, state,
    local and foreign country laws and regulations relating to
    discharge of materials into, and

F-41




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may,
    among other things, impose liability on the lessee under an oil
    and gas lease for the cost of pollutionclean-upresulting from operations and subject to the lessee to liability
    for pollution damages. In some instances, the Company may be
    directed to suspend or cease operations in the affected area. We
    maintain insurance coverage, which we believe is customary in
    the industry, although we are not fully insured against all
    environmental risks.





As of December 31, 2010, the Company had an undiscounted
    reserve for environmental remediation of approximately
    $135 million, of which approximately $109 million is
    related to properties acquired in 2010. Apache is not aware of
    any environmental claims existing as of December 31, 2010
    that have not been provided for or would otherwise have a
    material impact on its financial position or results of
    operations. There can be no assurance however, that current
    regulatory requirements will not change or past non-compliance
    with environmental laws will not be discovered on the
    Company’s properties.



Apache Canada Ltd. has asserted a claim against BP Canada
    arising out of the acquisition of certain Canadian properties
    under the parties’ Partnership Interest and Share Purchase
    and Sale Agreement dated July 20, 2010. The dispute centers
    on Apache Canada Ltd.’s identification of Alleged Adverse
    Conditions, as that term is defined in the parties’
    agreement, and more specifically the contention that liabilities
    associated with such conditions were retained by BP Canada as
    seller. Apache Canada Ltd. is diligently pursuing this claim.



Retirement
    and Deferred Compensation Plans



Apache Corporation provides retirement benefits to its
    U.S. employees through the use of three types of plans: an
    Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 401(k) savings plan, a money
    purchase retirement plan and a restorative non-qualified
    retirement savings plan. The 401(k) savings plan provides
    participating employees the ability to elect to contribute up to
    50 percent of eligible compensation to the plan with the
    Company making matching contributions up to a maximum of six
    percent of each employee’s annual covered compensation. In
    addition, the Company annually contributes six percent of each
    participating employee’s compensation, as defined, to a
    money purchase retirement plan. The 401(k) plan and the money
    purchase retirement plan are subject to certain
    annually-adjusted, government-mandated restrictions that limit
    the amount of employee and Company contributions. For certain
    eligible employees, the Company also provides a non-qualified
    retirement/savings plan that allows the deferral of up to
    50 percent of each employee’s salary and that accepts
    employee contributions and the Company’s matching
    contributions in excess of the government mandated limitations
    imposed in the 401(k) savings plan and money purchase retirement
    plan.



Vesting in the Company’s contributions in the 401(k)
    savings plan, the money purchase retirement plan and the
    non-qualified retirement/savings plan occurs at the rate of
    20 percent for every full year of employment. Upon a change
    in control of ownership, immediate and full vesting occurs.

F-42




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Additionally, Apache Energy Limited, Apache Canada Ltd. and
    Apache North Sea Limited maintain separate retirement plans, as
    required under the laws of Australia, Canada and the United
    Kingdom, respectively.



The aggregate annual cost of the 401(k) savings plans, the money
    purchase retirement plan and the non-qualified
    retirement/savings plans was $80 million, $66 million
    and $52 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Apache also provides a funded noncontributory defined benefit
    pension plan (U.K. Pension Plan) covering certain employees of
    the Company’s North Sea operations in the United Kingdom
    (U.K.). The plan provides defined pension benefits based on
    years of service and final average salary. The plan applies only
    to employees who were part of the BP North Sea’s pension
    plan as of April 2, 2003, prior to the acquisition of BP
    North Sea by the Company effective July 1, 2003.



Additionally, the Company offers postretirement medical benefits
    to U.S. employees who meet certain eligibility
    requirements. Covered participants receive medical benefits up
    until the age of 65 or the Medicare eligibility date, if later,
    provided the participant remits the required portion of the cost
    of coverage. The plan is contributory with participants’
    contributions adjusted annually. The postretirement benefit plan
    does not cover benefit expenses once a covered participant
    becomes eligible for Medicare.

F-43




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



The following tables set forth the benefit obligation, fair
    value of plan assets and funded status as of December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, and the underlying weighted average
    actuarial assumptions used for the U.K. Pension Plan and
    U.S. postretirement benefit plan. Apache uses a measurement
    date of December 31 for its pension and postretirement benefit
    plans.



201020092008PensionPostretirementPensionPostretirementPensionPostretirementBenefitsBenefitsBenefitsBenefitsBenefitsBenefits(In millions)Change in Projected Benefit ObligationProjected benefit obligation beginning of year$135$18$99$17$130$14Service cost524262Interest cost716171Foreign currency exchange rate changes(4)—13—(38)—Amendments——————Actuarial losses (gains)(1)817(1)(2)—Effect of curtailment and settlements——————Benefits paid(6)—(4)(1)(4)—Retiree contributions——————Projected benefit obligation at end of year13629135189917Change in Plan AssetsFair value of plan assets at beginning of year118—83—122—Actual return on plan assets14—12—(13)—Foreign currency exchange rates(3)—11—(32)—Employer contributions12—16110—Benefits paid(6)—(4)(1)(4)—Retiree contributions——————Fair value of plan assets at end of year135—118—83—Funded status at end of year$(1)$(29)$(17)$(18)$(17)$(17)Amounts recognized in Consolidated Balance SheetCurrent liability(1)—(1)——Non-current liability(1)(28)(17)(17)(17)(17)$(1)$(29)$(17)$(18)$(17)$(17)Pretax Amounts Recognized in AccumulatedOther Comprehensive IncomeAccumulated gain (loss)(15)(8)(24)—(14)—Prior service cost——————Transition asset (obligation)——————$(15)$(8)$(24)$—$(14)$—Weighted Average Assumptions used as ofDecember 31Discount rate5.40%4.93%5.70%5.56%5.50%6.03%Salary increases5.00%N/A5.30%N/A4.50%N/AExpected return on assets6.25%N/A6.65%N/A6.05%N/AHealthcare cost trendInitialN/A8.00%N/A7.50%N/A8.00%Ultimate in 2015N/A5.00%N/A5.00%N/A5.00%





As of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the accumulated
    benefit obligation for the pension plan was $107 million,
    $89 million and $69 million, respectively.

F-44




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Apache’s defined benefit pension plan assets are held by a
    non-related trustee who has been instructed to invest the assets
    in an equal blend of equity securities and low-risk debt
    securities. The Company intends that this blend of investments
    will provide a reasonable rate of return such that the benefits
    promised to members are provided.



The U.K. Pension Plan policy is to target an ongoing funding
    level of 100 percent through prudent investments and
    includes policies and strategies such as investment goals, risk
    management practices and permitted and prohibited investments.A
    breakout of previous allocations for plan asset holding and the
    target allocation for the Company’s plan assets are
    summarized below:



Percentage ofPlan Assets atTarget AllocationYear-End201020102009Asset CategoryEquity securities:U.K. quoted equities17%18%28%Overseas quoted equities33%34%19%Total equity securities50%52%47%Debt securities:U.K. Government bonds36%31%31%U.K. corporate bonds14%17%18%Debt securities50%48%49%Cash——4%Total100%100%100%





The plan’s assets do not include any equity or debt
    securities of Apache. The fair value of plan assets is based
    upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments in
    active markets, which is a Level 1 fair value measurement.
    See discussion of the fair value hierarchy as set forth byASC 820-10-35in Note 9 — Fair Value Measurements.The
    following table presents the fair values of plan assets for each
    major asset category based on the nature and significant
    concentration of risks in plan assets at December 31, 2010:



Fair Value Measurements Using:Quoted Pricein ActiveSignificantUnobservableMarketsOther InputsInputsTotal Fair(Level 1)(Level 2)(Level 3)Value(In millions)Equity securities:U.K. quoted equities(1)$24$—$—$24Overseas quoted equities(2)46——46Total equity securities70——70Debt securities:U.K. Government bonds(3)42——42U.K. corporate bonds(4)23——23Total debt securities65——65Cash————Fair value of plan assets$135$—$—$135



F-45




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)







(1)This category comprises U.K. equities, which are benchmarked
    against the FTSE All-Share Index.(2)This category includes overseas equities, which comprises
    85 percent global equities benchmarked against the MSCI
    World Index and 15 percent emerging markets benchmarked
    against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, both of which have a
    performance target of 2 percent per annum over the
    benchmark over a rolling three-year period.(3)This category includes U.K. Government bonds: 72 percent
    benchmarked against iBoxx Sterling Overall Index, with a
    performance target of 0.75 percent per annum over the
    benchmark over a rolling three-year period; and 28 percent
    against the FTSE Actuaries Government Securities Index-Linked
    Over 5 Years Index.(4)This category comprises U.K. corporate bonds benchmarked against
    the iBoxx Sterling Overall Index.



The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumptions are
    derived relative to the yield on long-dated fixed-interest bonds
    issued by the U.K. government (gilts). For equities,
    outperformance relative to gilts is assumed to be
    3.5 percent per year.



The following table presents the fair values of plan assets for
    each major asset category based on the nature and significant
    concentration of risks in plan assets at December 31, 2009:



Fair Value Measurements Using:Quoted Pricein ActiveSignificantUnobservableMarketsOther InputsInputsTotal Fair(Level 1)(Level 2)(Level 3)Value(In millions)Equity securities:U.K. quoted equities(1)$34$—$—$34Overseas quoted equities(2)22——22Total equity securities56——56Debt securities:U.K. Government bonds(3)36——36U.K. corporate bonds(4)21——21Total debt securities57——57Cash5——5Fair value of plan assets$118$—$—$118









(1)This category comprises U.K. equities, which are benchmarked
    against the FTSE All-Share Index.(2)This category includes overseas equities: 40 percent
    benchmarked against the FTSE Europe ex UK Index; 30 percent
    against the FTSE North America Index; 20 percent against
    the FTSE Japan Index; and 10 percent against the FTSE Asia
    Pacific ex Japan Index.(3)This category includes U.K. Government bonds: 67 percent
    benchmarked against the FTSE A British Government Over
    15 Years Index; 16.5 percent against the FTSE
    Actuaries Government Securities Over 15 Years Gilt Index;
    and 16.5 percent against the FTSE Actuaries Government
    Securities Index-Linked Over 5 Years Index.(4)This category comprises U.K. corporate bonds benchmarked against
    the iBoxx £ Non Gilt Over 10 Years Index.



The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumptions are
    derived relative to the yield on long-dated fixed-interest bonds
    issued by the U.K. government (gilts). For equities,
    outperformance relative to gilts is assumed to be
    3.5 percent per year.

F-46




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



The following tables set forth the components of the net
    periodic cost and the underlying weighted average actuarial
    assumptions used for the pension and postretirement benefit
    plans as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:



201020092008PensionPostretirementPensionPostretirementPensionPostretirementBenefitsBenefitsBenefitsBenefitsBenefitsBenefits(In millions)Components of Net Periodic Benefit CostsService cost$5$2$4$2$6$2Interest cost716171Expected return on assets(8)—(6)—(8)—Amortization of:Transition obligation——————Actuarial (gain) loss1—————Net periodic benefit cost$5$3$4$3$5$3Weighted Average Assumptions used to determine Net Periodic
    Benefit Costs for the Years ended December 31Discount rate5.7%5.56%5.50%6.03%5.60%6.01%Salary increases5.3%N/A4.50%N/A4.40%N/AExpected return on assets6.65%N/A6.05%N/A6.50%N/AHealthcare cost trend— Initial—7.50%—8.00%—8.00%— Ultimate in 2014—5.00%—5.00%—5.00%





Assumed health care cost trend rates effect amounts reported for
    postretirement benefits. A one-percentage-point change in
    assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following
    effects:



Postretirement Benefits1% Increase1% Decrease(In millions)Effect on service and interest cost components$—$—Effect on postretirement benefit obligation3(3)





Apache expects to contribute approximately $11 million to
    its pension plan and $546,000 to its postretirement benefit plan
    in 2011. The following benefit payments, which reflect expected
    future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:



PensionPostretirementBenefitsBenefits(In millions)201141201231201352201462201562Years 2016 — 20203918



F-47




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)





Contractual
    Obligations

At December 31, 2010, contractual obligations for drilling
    rigs, purchase obligations, exploration and development
    (E&D) commitments, firm transportation agreements, and
    long-term operating leases ranging from one to 26 years,
    are as follows:



Net Minimum CommitmentsTotal20112012-20142015-20162017 & Beyond(In millions)Drilling rig commitments(1)$392$303$89$—$—Purchase obligations(2)833574259——E&D commitments(3)57523530832—Firm transportation agreements(4)80913842317078Office and related equipment(5)16634702537Oil and gas operations equipment(6)4768514655190Other55———Total Net Minimum Commitments$3,256$1,374$1,295$282$305









(1)Includes day-rate and other contracts for use of drilling,
    completion and workover rigs.(2)Include contractual obligations to buy or build oil and gas
    plants and facilities.(3)Generally consists of seismic and drilling work programs
    required to retain acreage, meet contractual obligations of
    international concessions, or to satisfy minimum investments
    associated with farm-in properties.(4)Relates to contractual obligations for capacity rights on
    third-party pipelines.(5)Includes office and other building rentals and related equipment
    leases.(6)Includes floating production storage and offloading (FPSOs),
    compressors, helicopters and boats.



The table above includes leases for buildings, facilities and
    related equipment with varying expiration dates through 2035.
    Net rental expense was $46 million, $38 million and
    $38 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



9.FAIR
    VALUE MEASUREMENTS



ASC820-10-35provides a hierarchy that prioritizes and defines the types of
    inputs used to measure fair value. The fair value hierarchy
    gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs, which consist
    of unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments in active
    markets. Level 2 inputs consist of quoted prices for
    similar instruments. Level 3 valuations are derived from
    inputs that are significant and unobservable; hence, these
    valuations have the lowest priority.



The valuation techniques that may be used to measure fair value
    include a market approach, an income approach, and a cost
    approach. A market approach uses prices and other relevant
    information generated by market transactions involving identical
    or comparable assets or liabilities. An income approach uses
    valuation techniques to convert future amounts to a single
    present amount based on current market expectations, including
    present value techniques, option-pricing models and excess
    earnings method. The cost approach is based on the amount that
    currently would be required to replace the service capacity of
    an asset (replacement cost).

F-48




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Assets
    and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis



Certain assets and liabilities are reported at fair value on a
    recurring basis in Apache’s consolidated balance sheet. The
    following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair
    values:



Cash,
    Cash Equivalents, Short-Term Investments, Accounts Receivable
    and Accounts Payable



The carrying amounts approximate fair value because of the
    short-term nature or maturity of the instruments.



Commodity
    Derivative Instruments



Apache’s commodity derivative instruments consist ofvariable-to-fixedprice commodity swaps and options. The fair values of the
    Company’s derivative instruments are not actively quoted in
    the open market. The Company uses a market approach to estimate
    the fair values of its derivative instruments, utilizing
    commodity futures price strips for the underlying commodities
    provided by a reputable third-party. These valuations are
    Level 2 inputs. For further information regarding
    Apache’s derivative instruments and hedging activities,
    please see Note 3 — Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities.



The following table presents the Company’s material assets
    and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for
    each hierarchy level:



Fair Value Measurements UsingQuoted PriceSignificantin ActiveSignificantUnobservableMarketsOther InputsInputsTotal FairCarrying(Level 1)(Level 2)(Level 3)ValueNetting(1)Amount(In millions)December 31, 2010Assets:Commodity Derivative Instruments$—$454$—$454$(148)$306Liabilities:Commodity Derivative Instruments—466—466(148)318December 31, 2009Assets:Commodity Derivative Instruments$—$75$—$75$(11)$64Liabilities:Commodity Derivative Instruments—341—341(11)330









(1)The derivative fair values above are based on analysis of each
    contract as required by ASC Topic 820. Derivative assets and
    liabilities with the same counterparty are presented here on a
    gross basis, even where the legal right of offset exists. For a
    discussion of net amounts recorded on the consolidated balance
    sheet at December 31, 2010 and 2009, please see
    Note 3 — Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities.



Assets
    and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring
    Basis



Certain assets and liabilities are reported at fair value on a
    nonrecurring basis in Apache’s consolidated balance sheet.
    The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate fair
    values:



Asset
    Retirement Obligations Incurred in Current Period



Apache uses an income approach to estimate the fair value of
    AROs based on discounted cash flow projections using numerous
    estimates, assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
    the existence of a legal obligation for an ARO; estimated
    probabilities, amounts and timing of settlements; the
    credit-adjusted risk-free rate to be used; and inflation rates.
    AROs incurred in the current period were Level 3 fair value
    measurements. A summary of changes in the ARO liability is
    provided in Note 4 — Asset Retirement Obligation.

F-49




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Debt



The Company’s debt is recorded at the carrying amount on
    its consolidated balance sheet. For further discussion of the
    Company’s debt, please see Note 5 — Debt.
    Apache uses a market approach to determine the fair value of its
    fixed-rate debt using estimates provided by an independent
    investment financial data services firm, which is a Level 2
    fair value measurement. The carrying amount of floating-rate
    debt approximates fair value because the interest rates are
    variable and reflective of market rates.The
    following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair
    values of the Company’s debt at December 31, 2010 and
    2009:



December 31, 2010December 31, 2009CarryingFairCarryingFairAmountValueAmountValue(In millions)Money market lines of credit$46$46$7$7Commercial paper913913——Notes and debentures7,1827,8705,0605,628





The carrying amount of the Company’s money market lines of
    credit and commercial paper approximate fair value because the
    interest rates are variable and reflective of market rates. The
    Company’s trade payables and short-term investments are, by
    their very nature, short-term. The carrying values of these
    items included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet
    approximate fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009.



10.MAJOR
    CUSTOMERS



In 2010, 2009 and 2008, purchases by Shell accounted for
    15 percent, 18 percent and 17 percent,
    respectively, of the Company’s worldwide oil and gas
    production revenues.

F-50




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



11.BUSINESS
    SEGMENT INFORMATION



Apache is engaged in a single line of business. Both
    domestically and internationally, the Company explores for,
    develops and produces natural gas, crude oil and natural gas
    liquids. At December 31, 2010, the Company had production
    in six countries: the United States, Canada, Egypt, Australia,
    offshore the U.K. in the North Sea and Argentina. Apache also
    has exploration interest on the Chilean side of the island of
    Tierra del Fuego. Financial information for each country is
    presented below:





NorthOther

United StatesCanadaEgyptAustraliaSeaArgentinaInternationalTotal

(In millions)




Oil and gas production revenues$4,300$1,074$3,372$1,459$1,606$372$—$12,183

Operating Expenses:

Depreciation, depletion and amortization

Recurring1,163294754408304160—3,083

Additional————————

Asset retirement obligation accretion6223—9152—111

Lease operating expenses924334298185168123—2,032

Gathering and transportation427531—255—178

Taxes other than income19035101142222—690



Operating Income (Loss)(1)$1,919$313$2,279$846$672$60$—6,089



Other Income (Expense):

Other(91)

General and administrative(380)

Merger, Acquisitions & Transition(183)

Financing costs, net(229)



Income Before Income Taxes$5,206



Net Property and Equipment$19,069$7,497$4,726$3,495$1,970$1,336$58$38,151



Total Assets$21,326$8,273$6,036$3,831$2,362$1,537$60$43,425



Additions to Net Property and Equipment$10,371$5,277$1,569$925$620$274$20$19,056




Oil and gas production revenues$3,050$877$2,553$363$1,369$362$—$8,574

Operating Expenses:

Depreciation, depletion and amortization

Recurring947257578204260149—2,395

Additional1,2221,596—————2,818

Asset retirement obligation accretion6319—6143—105

Lease operating expenses762269264101158108—1,662

Gathering and transportation365323—265—143

Taxes other than income1214391038314—580



Operating Income (Loss)(1)$(101)$(1,360)$1,679$42$528$83$—871



Other Income (Expense):

Other41

General and administrative(344)

Financing costs, net(242)



Income Before Income Taxes$326



Net Property and Equipment$9,859$3,251$3,910$2,965$1,655$1,223$38$22,901



Total Assets$11,526$3,776$5,626$3,346$2,444$1,428$40$28,186



Additions to Net Property and Equipment$1,342$604$873$774$379$171$11$4,154







F-51




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)NorthOtherUnited StatesCanadaEgyptAustraliaSeaArgentinaInternationalTotal(In millions)2008Oil and gas production revenues$5,083$1,651$2,739$372$2,103$380$—$12,328Operating Expenses:Depreciation, depletion and amortizationRecurring1,113417397135263191—2,516Additional2,6671,689——569409—5,334Asset retirement obligation accretion6614—6132—101Lease operating expenses926337241104191111—1,910Gathering and transportation406321—285—157Taxes other than income2124381169516—985Operating Income (Loss)(1)$59$(912)$2,072$116$344$(354)$—1,325Other Income (Expense):Other62General and administrative(289)Financing costs, net(166)Income Before Income Taxes$932Net Property and Equipment$10,686$4,500$3,615$2,394$1,536$1,200$28$23,959Total Assets$11,976$5,846$4,968$2,626$2,287$1,446$37$29,186Additions to Net Property and Equipment$2,748$872$1,452$938$479$363$27$6,879(1)Operating Income consists of oil and gas production revenues
    less depreciation, depletion and amortization, asset retirement
    obligation accretion, lease operating expenses, gathering and
    transportation costs, and taxes other than income.F-52




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



12.SUPPLEMENTAL
    OIL AND GAS DISCLOSURES (Unaudited)



Oil
    and Gas Operations



The following table sets forth revenue and direct cost
    information relating to the Company’s oil and gas
    exploration and production activities. Apache has no long-term
    agreements to purchase oil or gas production from foreign
    governments or authorities.





Other

United StatesCanadaEgyptAustraliaNorth SeaArgentinaInternationalTotal

(In millions, except per boe)




Oil and gas production revenues$4,300$1,074$3,372$1,459$1,606$372$—$12,183



Operating cost:

Depreciation, depletion and amortization

Recurring(1)1,126287754403301157—3,028

Additional————————

Asset retirement obligation accretion6223—9152—111

Lease operating expenses924334298185168123—2,032

Gathering and transportation427531—255—178

Production taxes(2)17731—1142314—656

Income tax699821,09925533725—2,497



3,0308322,1828631,269326—8,502



Results of operations$1,270$242$1,190$596$337$46$—$3,681



Amortization rate per boe$13.23$8.13$11.05$13.38$14.42$9.56$—$11.92




Oil and gas production revenues$3,050$877$2,553$363$1,369$362$—$8,574



Operating cost:

Depreciation, depletion and amortization

Recurring(1)915250578202256147—2,348

Additional1,2221,596—————2,818

Asset retirement obligation accretion6319—6143—105

Lease operating expenses762269264101158108—1,662

Gathering and transportation365323—265—143

Production taxes(2)10735—103837—542

Income tax(19)(336)8101426632—767



3,0861,8861,6753331,103302—8,385



Results of operations$(36)$(1,009)$878$30$266$60$—$189



Amortization rate per boe$12.10$7.58$8.86$12.61$11.40$8.62$—$10.34




Oil and gas production revenues$5,083$1,651$2,739$372$2,103$380$—$12,328



Operating cost:

Depreciation, depletion and amortization

Recurring(1)1,081410398133261188—2,471

Additional2,6671,689——569409—5,334

Asset retirement obligation accretion6614—6132—101

Lease operating expenses926337241104191111—1,910

Gathering and transportation406321—285—157

Production taxes(2)20134—11695——941

Income tax37(215)99835173(118)—910



5,0182,3321,6582891,930597—11,824



Results of operations$65$(681)$1,081$83$173$(217)$—$504



Amortization rate per boe$14.08$13.11$8.48$11.26$11.89$10.49$—$12.06











(1)This amount only reflects DD&A of capitalized costs of oil
    and gas proved properties and, therefore, does not agree with
    DD&A reflected on Note 11 — Business Segment
    Information.(2)This amount only reflects amounts directly related to oil and
    gas producing properties and, therefore, does not agree with
    taxes other than income reflected on Note 11 —
    Business Segment Information.

F-53




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



Costs
    Incurred in Oil and Gas Property Acquisitions, Exploration, and
    Development Activities



OtherUnited StatesCanadaEgyptAustraliaNorth SeaArgentinaInternationalTotal(In millions)2010Acquisitions:Proved$5,604$2,752$325$—$—$—$—$8,681Unproved2,49754214532———3,216Exploration261312477236142136201,584Development1,724611290496475131—3,727Costs incurred(1)$10,086$4,217$1,237$764$617$267$20$17,208(1) Includes capitalized interest and asset retirement costs as
    follows:Capitalized interest$52$23$10$15$—$11$—$111Asset retirement costs1,09998—93—16—1,3062009Acquisitions:Proved$196$13$—$—$—$24$—$233Unproved——3938———77Exploration23317943818210597111,245Development89232624547427047—2,254Costs incurred(1)$1,321$518$722$694$375$168$11$3,809(1) Includes capitalized interest and asset retirement costs as
    follows:Capitalized interest$15$12$8$15$—$11$—$61Asset retirement costs18280—38—(7)—2932008Acquisitions:Proved$70$5$—$(1)$—$—$—$74Unproved75——————75Exploration382254193293107256281,513Development2,20158066858936498—4,500Costs incurred(1)$2,728$839$861$881$471$354$28$6,162(1) Includes capitalized interest and asset retirement costs as
    follows:Capitalized interest$20$12$8$9$1$24$—$74Asset retirement costs379117—(7)1213—514





Capitalized
    Costs



The following table sets forth the capitalized costs and
    associated accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization,
    including impairments, relating to the Company’s oil and
    gas production, exploration and development activities:



OtherUnited StatesCanadaEgyptAustraliaNorth SeaArgentinaInternationalTotal(In millions)2010Proved properties$30,273$11,679$5,286$4,435$4,078$2,153$—$57,904Unproved properties2,7911,11354225431259585,04833,06412,7925,8284,6894,1092,4125862,952Accumulated DD&A(14,391)(6,027)(2,971)(1,642)(2,146)(1,153)—(28,330)$18,673$6,765$2,857$3,047$1,963$1,259$58$34,6222009Proved properties$22,777$8,172$4,271$3,661$3,477$1,909$—$44,267Unproved properties20140532026514236381,47922,9788,5774,5913,9263,4912,1453845,746Accumulated DD&A(13,270)(5,780)(2,319)(1,256)(1,844)(1,000)—(25,469)$9,708$2,797$2,272$2,670$1,647$1,145$38$20,277



F-54




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)Costs
    Not Being AmortizedThe following table sets forth a summary of oil and gas property
    costs not being amortized at December 31, 2010, by the year
    in which such costs were incurred. There are no individually
    significant properties or significant development projects
    included in costs not being amortized. The majority of the
    evaluation activities are expected to be completed within five
    to ten years.2007Total201020092008and Prior(In millions)Property acquisition costs$4,118$3,491$108$187$332Exploration and development8024812074074Capitalized interest12852183028Total$5,048$4,024$333$257$434Oil
    and Gas Reserve InformationEffective December 31, 2009, Apache adopted revised oil and
    gas disclosure requirements set forth by the SEC in ReleaseNo. 33-8995,“Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting” and as
    codified by the FASB in ASC Topic 932, “Extractive
    Industries — Oil and Gas.” The new rules include
    changes to the pricing used to estimate reserves, the option to
    disclose probable and possible reserves, revised definitions for
    proved reserves, additional disclosures with respect to
    undeveloped reserves, and other new or revised definitions and
    disclosures.F-55






APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)



There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating
    quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of
    production and timing of development expenditures. The following
    reserve data only represent estimates and should not be
    construed as being exact.





Total

Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas LiquidsNatural Gas(Thousands

(Thousands of barrels)(Millions of cubic feet)barrels

UnitedNorthUnitedNorthof oil

StatesCanadaEgyptAustraliaSeaArgentinaTotalStatesCanadaEgyptAustraliaSeaArgentinaTotalequivalent)



Proved developed reserves:

December 31, 2007394,96094,09074,31519,948186,70624,535794,5541,923,7501,605,675818,509536,1316,304442,0585,332,4271,683,292

December 31, 2008363,51685,03893,10339,758168,92526,752777,0921,866,9881,594,7821,010,102713,2905,585487,9805,678,7271,723,547

December 31, 2009373,01089,22297,78734,662142,02225,985762,6881,785,1551,436,151838,000699,9634,851473,1455,237,2651,635,565

December 31, 2010514,537113,993109,65748,072115,70522,458924,4222,284,1162,181,615748,573682,7634,144462,2066,363,4171,984,991

Proved undeveloped reserves:

December 31, 2007156,65583,86620,29256,78018,0113,552339,156775,298727,853364,374611,363—61,4022,540,290762,538

December 31, 2008151,24870,70721,30336,77718,9905,027304,052670,194608,580360,876540,255—58,3932,238,298677,102

December 31, 2009150,62757,55217,80643,77929,6925,104304,560652,766869,197321,141661,478—54,1842,558,766731,021

December 31, 2010244,47860,99717,47018,06438,6634,641384,313988,8691,310,352328,344805,735—70,4653,503,765968,274

Total proved reserves:

Balance December 31, 2007551,615177,95594,60876,729204,71728,0861,133,7102,699,0482,333,5281,182,8831,147,4946,304503,4607,872,7172,445,829

Extensions, discoveries and other additions38,0105,62328,9664,4019,2889,26195,549247,100192,974109,488151,308362114,852816,084231,563

Purchases of minerals in-place1,9197————1,92627,5511,757————29,3086,810

Revisions of previous estimates(31,540)(18,787)15,264(1,576)(4,315)30(40,924)(175,834)(134,563)175,125(238)(116)(330)(135,956)(63,583)

Production(35,057)(7,038)(24,432)(3,019)(21,775)(5,598)(96,919)(248,835)(129,100)(96,518)(45,019)(965)(71,608)(592,045)(195,593)

Sales of properties(10,183)(2,015)————(12,198)(11,848)(61,235)————(73,083)(24,378)



Balance December 31, 2008514,764155,745114,40676,535187,91531,7791,081,1442,537,1822,203,3611,370,9781,253,5455,585546,3747,917,0252,400,648

Extensions, discoveries and other additions17,6421,83941,1043,5746,0564,86575,080150,668340,2782,142174,88325250,714718,937194,903

Purchases of minerals in-place13,023—————13,02347,78235————47,81720,993

Revisions of previous estimates12,981(4,504)(6,286)1,9012(173)3,921(54,591)(107,205)(81,623)33—(2,395)(245,781)(37,043)

Production(34,773)(6,306)(33,631)(3,569)(22,259)(5,382)(105,920)(243,120)(131,121)(132,356)(67,020)(986)(67,364)(641,967)(212,915)

Sales of properties———————————————



Balance December 31, 2009523,637146,774115,59378,441171,71431,0891,067,2482,437,9212,305,3481,159,1411,361,4414,851527,3297,796,0312,366,586

Extensions, discoveries and other additions72,9286,81641,2054,4523,383426129,210102,180274,75546,692199,95816671,632695,383245,108

Purchases of minerals in-place195,13142,44011,261———248,832951,6541,064,61849,044———2,065,316593,051

Revisions of previous estimates7,597(14,592)(4,723)——379(11,339)47,989(8,211)(41,137)——1,173(186)(11,370)

Production(40,278)(6,375)(36,209)(16,757)(20,729)(4,795)(125,143)(266,759)(144,542)(136,823)(72,901)(873)(67,463)(689,361)(240,037)

Sales of properties—(73)————(73)—(1)————(1)(73)



Balance December 31, 2010759,015174,990127,12766,136154,36827,0991,308,7353,272,9853,491,9671,076,9171,488,4984,144532,6719,867,1822,953,265







Approximately 17 percent of Apache’s year-end 2010
    estimated proved developed reserves are classified as proved not
    producing. These reserves relate to zones that are either behind
    pipe, or that have been completed but not yet produced, or zones
    that have been produced in the past, but are not now producing
    because of mechanical reasons. These reserves are considered to
    be a lower tier of reserves than producing reserves because they
    are frequently based on volumetric calculations rather than
    performance data. Future production associated with behind pipe
    reserves is scheduled to follow depletion of the currently
    producing zones in the same wellbores. It should be noted that
    additional capital may have to be spent to access these
    reserves. The capital and economic impact of production timing
    are reflected in this Note 12, under “Future Net Cash
    Flows.”

F-56








APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)



Future
    Net Cash Flows



Future cash inflows as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 were
    calculated using an unweighted arithmetic average of oil and gas
    prices in effect on the first day of each month in the
    respective year, except where prices are defined by contractual
    arrangements. Future cash inflows as of December 31, 2008
    were estimated using oil and gas prices in effect at the end of
    the year, except where prices are defined by contractual
    arrangements, in accordance with SEC guidance in effect prior to
    the issuance of the Modernization Rules. Operating costs,
    production and ad valorem taxes and future development costs are
    based on current costs with no escalation.



The following table sets forth unaudited information concerning
    future net cash flows for proved oil and gas reserves, net of
    income tax expense. Income tax expense has been computed using
    expected future tax rates and giving effect to tax deductions
    and credits available, under current laws, and which relate to
    oil and gas producing activities. This information does not
    purport to present the fair market value of the Company’s
    oil and gas assets, but does present a standardized disclosure
    concerning possible future net cash flows that would result
    under the assumptions used.



UnitedStatesCanadaEgyptAustraliaNorth SeaArgentinaTotal(In millions)2010Cash inflows$70,119$27,738$13,086$12,787$11,697$2,627$138,054Production costs(20,122)(12,207)(1,432)(2,808)(5,974)(968)(43,511)Development costs(5,695)(2,736)(2,035)(2,288)(1,289)(182)(14,225)Income tax expense(11,635)(1,464)(3,407)(2,213)(2,207)(177)(21,103)Net cash flows32,66711,3316,2125,4782,2271,30059,21510 percent discount rate(17,289)(5,446)(1,744)(3,407)(532)(355)(28,773)Discounted future net cash flows(1)$15,378$5,885$4,468$2,071$1,695$945$30,4422009Cash inflows$38,591$15,698$10,176$11,096$6,871$2,434$84,866Production costs(12,399)(7,315)(1,330)(2,537)(4,215)(860)(28,656)Development costs(3,177)(1,790)(1,512)(1,949)(780)(163)(9,371)Income tax expense(6,433)(1,010)(2,527)(1,852)(918)(351)(13,091)Net cash flows16,5825,5834,8074,7589581,06033,74810 percent discount rate(8,555)(2,974)(1,365)(2,692)(70)(341)(15,997)Discounted future net cash flows(1)$8,027$2,609$3,442$2,066$888$719$17,751









(1)Estimated future net cash flows before income tax expense,
    discounted at 10 percent per annum, totaled approximately
    $41.0 billion and $24.4 billion as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

F-57




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)



The following table sets forth the principal sources of change
    in the discounted future net cash flows:



For the Year Ended December 31,201020092008(In millions)Sales, net of production costs$(9,152)$(5,943)$(9,725)Net change in prices and production costs13,0067,650(25,451)Discoveries and improved recovery, net of related costs5,1471,7183,132Change in future development costs(1,637)(447)(144)Previously estimated development costs incurred during the period1,3551,6851,480Revision of quantities(1,905)(1,258)215Purchases of minerals in-place7,7945301,675Accretion of discount2,4391,0544,693Change in income taxes(4,535)8237,821Sales of properties(3)—(654)Change in production rates and other182(1,009)(842)$12,691$4,803$(17,800)





13.SUPPLEMENTAL
    QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)



FirstSecondThirdFourthTotal(In millions, except per share amounts)2010Revenues and other$2,673$2,972$3,013$3,434$12,092Expenses1,9682,1122,2352,7459,060Net income$705$860$778$689$3,032Income attributable to common stock$705$860$765$670$3,000Net income per common share(1):Basic$2.09$2.55$2.14$1.79$8.53Diluted$2.08$2.53$2.12$1.77$8.462009Revenues and other$1,634$2,093$2,333$2,555$8,615Expenses3,3911,6481,8911,9708,900Net income (loss)$(1,757)$445$442$585$(285)Income (loss) attributable to common stock$(1,758)$443$441$582$(292)Net income (loss) per common share(1):Basic$(5.25)$1.32$1.31$1.73$(.87)Diluted$(5.25)$1.31$1.30$1.72$(.87)





(1)The sum of the individual quarterly net income (loss) per common
    share amounts may not agree withyear-to-datenet income per common share as each quarterly computation is
    based on the weighted-average number of common shares
    outstanding during that period. Potentially dilutive securities
    were included in the computation of diluted net income per
    common share for each quarter in which the Company reported net
    income. Securities deemed anti-dilutive were excluded from each
    quarter in which the Company reported a net loss.

F-58




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)



14.SUPPLEMENTAL
    GUARANTOR INFORMATION



Rule 3-10of SECRegulation S-X(Rule 3-10)generally requires filing of financial statements by every
    issuer of a registered security with independent operations.Rule 3-10also allows condensed consolidating financial statements in a
    footnote of the parent company financial statements as an
    alternative to filing separate financial statements, if the
    publicly-traded notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed
    by the parent company. Issuers with no independent operations
    qualify as “finance subsidiaries” and are exempt from
    the reporting requirements. Apache Finance Canada does not
    qualify as a “finance subsidiary,” neither did Apache
    Finance Australia when it had registered securities during the
    periods presented.



Each of the companies presented in the condensed consolidating
    financial statements is wholly owned and has been consolidated
    in Apache Corporation’s consolidated financial statements
    for all applicable periods presented. As such, the condensed
    consolidating financial statements should be read in conjunction
    with the financial statements of Apache Corporation and
    subsidiaries and notes thereto of which this note is an integral
    part.



Apache
    Finance Australia



Apache Finance Australia issued approximately $270 million
    of publicly-traded notes that were fully and unconditionally
    guaranteed by Apache Corporation and Apache North America, Inc.
    during the relevant periods presented. In 2007,
    $170 million of these notes matured and were repaid. The
    remaining $100 million of publicly-traded notes matured on
    March 15, 2009, and were repaid using existing cash
    balances.



Apache
    Finance Canada



Apache Finance Canada issued approximately $300 million of
    publicly-traded notes due in 2029 and an additional
    $350 million of publicly-traded notes due in 2015 that are
    fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Apache.



Apache
    Deepwater



Apache Deepwater assumed publicly traded debt upon consummation
    of its merger with Mariner. Mariner’s publicly traded debt
    included $300 million of 7.5-percent senior notes due 2013,
    $300 million of 11.75-percent senior notes due 2016, and
    $300 million of 8-percent senior notes due 2017. On
    December 13, 2010, Apache Deepwater redeemed the
    7.5-percent notes, the 8-percent notes, and 35 percent of
    the 11.75-percent notes pursuant to the provisions of each
    note’s indenture. On December 14, 2010, Apache
    Deepwater redeemed the remaining 65 percent of the
    11.75-percent notes.

F-59






APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONSFor the Year Ended December 31, 2010All OtherSubsidiariesApacheApacheof ApacheReclassificationsCorporationFinance CanadaCorporation& EliminationsConsolidated(In millions)REVENUES AND OTHER:Oil and gas production revenues$3,665$—$8,518$—$12,183Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates2,26581(7)(2,339)—Other27(1)(113)(4)(91)5,957808,398(2,343)12,092OPERATING EXPENSES:Depreciation, depletion and amortization1,041—2,042—3,083Asset retirement obligation accretion57—54—111Lease operating expenses797—1,235—2,032Gathering and transportation42—136—178Taxes other than income140—550—690General and administrative273—111(4)380Merger, acquisitions & transition183———183Financing costs, net158(19)90—2292,691(19)4,218(4)6,886INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES3,266994,180(2,339)5,206Provision for income taxes234251,915—2,174NET INCOME3,032742,265(2,339)3,032Preferred stock dividends32———32INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCK$3,000$74$2,265$(2,339)$3,000F-60




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONSFor the Year Ended December 31, 2009All OtherSubsidiariesApacheApacheof ApacheReclassificationsCorporationFinance CanadaCorporation& EliminationsConsolidated(In millions)REVENUES AND OTHER:Oil and gas production revenues$2,770$—$5,804$—$8,574Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates235(448)16845—Other(3)59(11)(4)413,002(389)5,961418,615OPERATING EXPENSES:Depreciation, depletion and amortization2,097—3,116—5,213Asset retirement obligation accretion63—42—105Lease operating expenses691—971—1,662Gathering and transportation34—109—143Taxes other than income100—480—580General and administrative275—73(4)344Financing costs, net228(15)29—2423,488(15)4,820(4)8,289INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES(486)(374)1,14145326Provision (benefit) for income taxes(201)(93)905—611NET INCOME(285)(281)23645(285)Preferred stock dividends7———7INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCK$(292)$(281)$236$45$(292)F-61




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONSFor the Year Ended December 31, 2008All OtherApacheSubsidiariesApacheApacheFinanceApacheof ApacheReclassificationsCorporationNorth AmericaAustraliaFinance CanadaCorporation& EliminationsConsolidated(In millions)REVENUES AND OTHER:Oil and gas production revenues$4,552$—$—$—$7,822$(46)$12,328Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates5267168(157)88(596)—Other26(30)3059(19)(4)625,1044198(98)7,891(646)12,390OPERATING EXPENSES:Depreciation, depletion and amortization3,276———4,574—7,850Asset retirement obligation accretion66———35—101Lease operating expenses821———1,089—1,910Gathering and transportation39———164(46)157Taxes other than income169———816—985General and administrative223———69(3)289Financing costs, net150(11)18(6)15—1664,744(11)18(6)6,762(49)11,458INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES3605280(92)1,129(597)932Provision (benefit) for income taxes(353)(12)9(28)604—220NET INCOME7136471(64)525(597)712Preferred stock dividends6—————6INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCK$707$64$71$(64)$525$(597)$706F-62




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)



CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSFor the Year Ended December 31, 2010





All Other

Subsidiaries

ApacheApacheof ApacheReclassifications

CorporationFinance CanadaCorporation& EliminationsConsolidated

(In millions)



CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES$(1,848)$(100)$8,674$—$6,726



CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

Additions to oil and gas property(1,552)—(2,855)—(4,407)

Additions to gathering, transmission and processing facilities(4)—(511)—(515)

Acquisitions of Devon properties(1,018)———(1,018)

Acquisitions of BP properties——(6,429)—(6,429)

Mariner Energy, Inc merger——(787)—(787)

Acquisitions, other——(126)—(126)

Short-term investments—————

Restricted cash—————

Proceeds from sale of oil and gas properties—————

Investment in and advances to subsidiaries, net(2,853)——2,853—

Other, net(72)—(49)—(121)



NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES(5,499)—(10,757)2,853(13,403)



CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Commercial paper, credit facility and bank notes, net928—(960)—(32)

Intercompany borrowings—22,720(2,722)—

Fixed-rate debt borrowings2,470———2,470

Payments on fixed-rate notes——(1,023)—(1,023)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock2,258———2,258

Proceeds from issuance of mandatory convertible preferred stock1,227———1,227

Dividends paid(226)———(226)

Common stock activity709635(131)70

Redemption of preferred stock—————

Other(21)—40—19



NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES6,70698812(2,853)4,763



NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS(641)(2)(1,271)—(1,914)

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR64721,399—2,048



CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR$6$—$128$—$134





F-63




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSFor the Year Ended December 31, 2009All OtherSubsidiariesApacheApacheof ApacheReclassificationsCorporationFinance CanadaCorporation& EliminationsConsolidated(In millions)CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES$1,857$(15)$2,382$—$4,224CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:Additions to oil and gas property(1,008)—(2,318)—(3,326)Additions to gathering, transmission and processing facilities——(306)—(306)Acquisitions, other(196)—(114)—(310)Short-term investments792———792Restricted cash14———14Proceeds from sale of oil and gas properties——3—3Investment in and advances to subsidiaries, net(657)——657—Other, net(39)—(75)—(114)NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES(1,093)—(2,811)657(3,247)CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:Commercial paper, credit facility and bank notes, net1(3)903(653)248Fixed-rate debt borrowings—————Payments on fixed-rate notes——(100)—(100)Dividends paid(209)———(209)Common stock activity2818(14)(4)28Redemption of preferred stock(98)———(98)Other20—1—21NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES(258)15790(657)(110)NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS505—361—867CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR14221,037—1,181CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR$647$2$1,399$—$2,048F-64




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSFor the Year Ended December 31, 2008All OtherSubsidiariesApacheApacheApacheApacheof ApacheReclassificationsCorporationNorth AmericaFinance AustraliaFinance CanadaCorporation& EliminationsConsolidated(In millions)CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATINGACTIVITIES$1,590$(1)$(12)$3$5,485$—$7,065CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:Additions to oil and gas property(1,388)———(3,756)—(5,144)Additions to gathering, transmission and processing facilities————(679)—(679)Acquisitions, other(145)———(5)—(150)Short-term investments(792)—————(792)Restricted cash(14)—————(14)Proceeds from sales of oil and gas properties206———102—308Investment in and advances to subsidiaries, net(198)(13)———211—Other, net385———(449)—(64)NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES(1,946)(13)——(4,787)211(6,535)CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:Commercial paper, credit facility and bank notes, net(138)(7)(1)(2)153(105)(100)Fixed-rate debt borrowings796—————796Payments on fixed-rate notes———————Dividends paid(239)—————(239)Common stock activity312013(1)74(106)31Other44———(7)—37NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES4941312(3)220(211)525NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS138(1)——918—1,055CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR4——2120—126CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR$142$(1)$—$2$1,038$—$1,181F-65




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETDecember 31, 2010All OtherSubsidiariesApacheApacheof ApacheReclassificationsCorporationFinance CanadaCorporation& EliminationsConsolidated(In millions)ASSETSCURRENT ASSETS:Cash and cash equivalents$6$—$128$—$134Receivables, net of allowance691—1,443—2,134Inventories55—509—564Drilling advances102247—259Prepaid assets and other3,313—(2,924)—3894,0752(597)—3,480PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET11,314—26,837—38,151OTHER ASSETS:Intercompany receivable, net4,695—(3,149)(1,546)—Equity in affiliates16,6491,27598(18,022)—Goodwill, net——1,032—1,032Deferred charges and other1781,003581(1,000)762$36,911$2,280$24,802$(20,568)$43,425LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITYCURRENT LIABILITIES:Accounts payable$480$2$1,843$(1,546)$779Accrued exploration and development274—1,093—1,367Current debt16—30—46Asset retirement obligations317—90—407Derivative instruments153—41—194Other accrued expenses4003328—7311,64053,425(1,546)3,524LONG-TERM DEBT7,4476471—8,095DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER NONCURRENT LIABILITIES:Income taxes1,80352,441—4,249Asset retirement obligation1,001—1,464—2,465Other643250822(1,000)7153,4472554,727(1,000)7,429COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIESSHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY24,3771,37316,649(18,022)24,377$36,911$2,280$24,802$(20,568)$43,425F-66




APACHE
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS —
    (Continued)CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETDecember 31, 2009All OtherSubsidiariesApacheApacheof ApacheReclassificationsCorporationFinance CanadaCorporation& EliminationsConsolidated(In millions)ASSETSCURRENT ASSETS:Cash and cash equivalents$647$2$1,399$—$2,048Receivables, net of allowance575—971—1,546Inventories51—482—533Drilling advances131217—231Prepaid assets and other(16)—244—2281,27033,313—4,586PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET9,163—13,738—22,901OTHER ASSETS:Intercompany receivable, net1,839—(348)(1,491)—Equity in affiliates11,24398199(12,323)—Restricted cash—————Goodwill, net——189—189Deferred charges and other1341,003373(1,000)510$23,649$1,987$17,364$(14,814)$28,186LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITYCURRENT LIABILITIES:Accounts payable$258$—$1,630$(1,491)$397Accrued exploration and development247—676—923Current debt——117—117Asset retirement obligations147———147Derivative instruments110—18—128Other accrued expenses2376438—68199962,879(1,491)2,393LONG-TERM DEBT4,062647241—4,950DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER NONCURRENT LIABILITIES:Income taxes1,30641,455—2,765Asset retirement obligation817—820—1,637Other686250726(1,000)6622,8092543,001(1,000)5,064COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIESSHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY15,7791,08011,243(12,323)15,779$23,649$1,987$17,364$(14,814)$28,186F-67






Board of DirectorsFrederick M. Bohen(3)(5)Former Executive Vice President andChief Operating Officer,The Rockefeller UniversityG. Steven Farris(1)Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,Apache CorporationRandolph M. Ferlic, M.D.(1)(2)Founder and Former President,Surgical Services of the Great Plains, P.C.Eugene C. Fiedorek(2)Private Investor, Co-Founder and FormerPresident and Managing Director,EnCap Investments L.C.A.D. Frazier, Jr.(3)(5)Co-Founder and Vice Chairman,BOTH Holdings, LLCPatricia Albjerg Graham(4)Charles Warren Professor of theHistory of Education Emerita,Harvard UniversityScott D. JoseyPrivate Investor, Former Chairmanand Chief Executive Officer,Mariner Energy, Inc.Chansoo JoungSenior Advisor and Former Partner,Warburg Pincus LLCJohn A. Kocur(1)(3)(4)Attorney at Law; Former Vice Chairman of the Board, Apache
    CorporationGeorge D. Lawrence(1)(3)Private Investor; Former Chief Executive Officer,The Phoenix Resource Companies, Inc.F. H. Merelli(1)(2)Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer,and President, Cimarex Energy Co.Rodman D. Patton(2)Former Managing Director,Merrill Lynch Energy GroupCharles J. Pitman(4)Former Regional President — Middle East/Caspian/Egypt/India, BP Amoco plc(1)Executive Committee(2)Audit Committee(3)Management Development and
    CompensationCommittee(4)Corporate Governance and Nominating
    Committee(5)Stock Option Plan Committee

OfficersG. Steven FarrisChairman and Chief Executive OfficerRoger B. PlankPresidentJohn A. CrumCo-Chief Operating Officer and
    President —North AmericaRodney J. EichlerCo-Chief Operating Officer and
    President — InternationalMichael S. BahorichExecutive Vice President, Chief
    Technology OfficerThomas P. ChambersExecutive Vice President and Chief
    Financial OfficerJon A. JeppesenExecutive Vice PresidentP. Anthony LannieExecutive Vice President and
    General CounselW. Kregg OlsonExecutive Vice
    President — Corporate ReservoirEngineeringMatthew W. DundreaSenior Vice President —
    Treasury and AdministrationRobert J. DyeSenior Vice President —
    Global Communication andCorporate AffairsMargie HarrisSenior Vice President —
    Human ResourcesJanine J. McArdleSenior Vice President —
    Gas MonetizationSarah B. TeslikSenior Vice President —
    Policy and GovernanceJohn R. BedingfieldVice President —
    Worldwide Exploration and New VenturesDavid A. CarmonyVice President —
    Environmental, Health and SafetyRod GryderVice President — AuditDavid L. FrenchVice President — Business
    DevelopmentRebecca A. HoytVice President, Chief Accounting
    Officer and ControllerAlfonso LeonVice President —
    Planning, Strategy and Investor RelationsAaron S. G. MerrickVice President —
    Information TechnologyUrban F. O’BrienVice President —
    Government AffairsJon W. SauerVice President — TaxCheri L. PeperCorporate Secretary












Shareholder
    Information

Stock Data



DividendsPrice Rangeper ShareHighLowDeclaredPaid2010First Quarter$108.92$95.15$.15$.15Second Quarter111.0083.55.15.15Third Quarter99.0981.94.15.15Fourth Quarter120.8096.51.15.152009First Quarter$88.07$51.03$.15$.15Second Quarter87.0461.60.15.15Third Quarter95.7765.02.15.15Fourth Quarter106.4688.06.15.15





The Company has paid cash dividends on its common stock for 46
    consecutive years through December 31, 2010. Future
    dividend payments will depend upon the Company’s level of
    earnings, financial requirements and other relevant factors.



Apache common stock is listed on the New York and Chicago stock
    exchanges and the NASDAQ National Market (symbol APA). At
    December 31, 2010, the Company’s shares of common
    stock outstanding were held by approximately
    5,700 shareholders of record and 440,000 beneficial owners.
    Also listed on the New York Stock Exchange are:



•Apache Depositary shares (symbol APA/PD), each representing a
    1/20th interest in Apache’s 6% Mandatory Convertible
    Preferred Stock, Series D•Apache Finance Canada’s 7.75% notes, due 2029 (symbol
    APA/29)



Corporate Offices

One Post Oak Central

2000 Post Oak Boulevard

Suite 100

Houston, Texas77056-4400

(713) 296-6000



Independent Public Accountants

Ernst & Young LLP

Five Houston Center

1401 McKinney Street, Suite 1200

Houston, Texas77010-2007



Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.

Attn: Shareowner Services

P.O. Box 64854

South St. Paul, Minnesota55164-0854

(651) 450-4064or(800) 468-9716



Communications concerning the transfer of shares, lost
    certificates, dividend checks, duplicate mailings or change of
    address should be directed to the stock transfer agent.
    Shareholders can access account information on the web site:
    www.shareowneronline.com



Dividend
    Reinvestment Plan



Shareholders of record may invest their dividends automatically
    in additional shares of Apache common stock at the market price.
    Participants may also invest up to an additional $25,000 in
    Apache shares each quarter through this service. All bank
    service fees and brokerage commissions on purchases are paid by
    Apache. A prospectus describing the terms of the Plan and an
    authorization form may be obtained from the Company’s stock
    transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.



Direct
    Registration



Shareholders of record may hold their shares of Apache common
    stock in book-entry form. This eliminates costs related to
    safekeeping or replacing paper stock certificates. In addition,
    shareholders of record may request electronic movement of
    book-entry shares between your account with the Company’s
    stock transfer agent and your broker. Stock certificates may be
    converted to book-entry shares at any time. Questions regarding
    this service may be directed to the Company’s stock
    transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.



Annual
    Meeting



Apache will hold its annual meeting of shareholders on Thursday,
    May 5, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. in the Ballroom, Hilton
    Houston Post Oak, 2001 Post Oak Boulevard, Houston, Texas.
    Apache plans to web cast the annual meeting live; connect
    through the Apache web site: www.apachecorp.com



Stock
    Held in “Street Name”



The Company maintains a direct mailing list to ensure that
    shareholders with stock held in brokerage accounts receive
    information on a timely basis. Shareholders wanting to be added
    to this list should direct their requests to Apache’s
    Public and International Affairs Department, 2000 Post Oak
    Boulevard, Suite 100, Houston, Texas,77056-4400,by calling(713) 296-6157or by registering on Apache’s web site: www.apachecorp.com



Form 10-KRequest



Shareholders and other persons interested in obtaining, without
    cost, a copy of the Company’sForm 10-Kfiled with the Securities and Exchange Commission may do so by
    writing to Cheri L. Peper, Corporate Secretary, 2000 Post Oak
    Boulevard, Suite 100, Houston, Texas,77056-4400.



Investor
    Relations



Shareholders, brokers, securities analysts or portfolio managers
    seeking information about the Company are welcome to contact
    Alfonso Leon, Vice President, Planning, Strategy and Investor
    Relations, at(713) 296-6692.



Members of the news media and others seeking information about
    the Company should contact Apache’s Public and
    International Affairs Department at(713) 296-7276.



Web site:
    www.apachecorp.com





