10-K


d10k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

Annual Report


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 31, 2003

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-2610

ZIONS BANCORPORATION

(Exact name of
Registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (801) 524-4787

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, Stock Purchase Rights – without par value

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

x

No

¨

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Portions of 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders – Incorporated into Parts I, II and IV

Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 30, 2004 – Incorporated into Part III


FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX

(1)

The 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders, portions of which are incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

(2)

Incorporated by reference from the Company’s Proxy Statement dated March 15, 2004.

(3)

None.

*

Financial Highlights – inside front cover of 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders.



PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Zions Bancorporation
(“the Parent”) is a financial holding company organized under the laws of the State of Utah in 1955, and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). Zions Bancorporation and its subsidiaries
(collectively “the Company” or “Zions”) own and operate six commercial banks with a total of 413 offices at year-end 2003. The Company provides a full range of banking and related services through its banking and other
subsidiaries, primarily in Utah, Idaho, California, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado and Washington. Full-time equivalent employees totaled 7,896 at year-end 2003. For further information about the Company’s industry segments, see “Business
Segment Results” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) and Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For information about the Company’s foreign operations, see “Foreign Operations”
in MD&A. The “Executive Summary” in MD&A provides further information about the Company.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

The Company focuses on maintaining community-minded banking services by continuously strengthening its core business lines of retail banking, small and medium-sized
business lending, residential mortgage, and investment activities. It operates six different banks in eight western states with each bank operating under a different name and each having its own chief executive officer and management team. The banks
provide a wide variety of commercial and retail banking and mortgage lending products and services. The Company provides commercial loans, lease financing, cash management, lockbox, customized draft processing, and other special financial services
for business and other commercial banking customers. The Company also provides a wide range of personal banking services to individuals, including bankcard, student and other installment loans, home equity lines of credit, checking accounts, savings
accounts, time certificates of various types and maturities, trust services, safe deposit facilities, direct deposit, and 24-hour ATM access. In addition, the Company provides services to key market segments through its Women’s Financial,
Private Client Services, and Executive Banking Groups.

In addition to these
core businesses, the Company has built specialized lines of business in capital markets and public finance and is also a leader in U.S. Small Business Administration lending. Through its six banking subsidiaries, the Company provides SBA 7(a) loans
to small businesses throughout the United States and is also one of the largest providers of SBA 504 financing in the nation. The Company owns an equity interest in the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (“Farmer Mac”) and is the
nation’s top originator of secondary market agricultural real estate mortgage loans through Farmer Mac. The Company is a leader in municipal finance advisory and underwriting services and also in the odd lot electronic bond trading market.
Zions also controls four venture capital companies that provide early-stage capital, primarily for start-up companies located in the Western United States.

COMPETITION

Zions operates in a highly competitive environment as a result of the diverse financial services and products it offers. Competitors include not only other banks, thrift
institutions and credit unions, but also insurance companies, finance companies, mutual funds, brokerage firms, securities dealers, investment banking companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies. Most of these
entities compete across geographic boundaries and provide customers with increasing access to meaningful alternatives to banking services in many significant products. In addition, many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory
restrictions as the Company. These competitive trends are likely to continue.



SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

On July 30, 2002, the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States
(Congress) enacted the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a law that addresses, among other issues, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, executive compensation, and enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information. The Nasdaq Stock Market,
Inc. has also proposed corporate governance rules, which intend to allow shareholders to more easily and efficiently monitor the performance of companies and their directors.

The Board of Directors of Zions Bancorporation has implemented a system of strong corporate governance practices. This system included
Corporate Governance Guidelines, a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and charters for the Audit, Credit Review, Executive Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. More information on Zions Bancorporation’s corporate
governance practices is available on the Zions Bancorporation website at

www.zionsbancorporation.com

.

The enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“the GLB Act”) represented a pivotal point in the history of the financial services industry. The GLB Act swept away large parts of a regulatory framework
that had its origins in the Depression Era of the 1930s. Effective March 11, 2000, new opportunities became available for banks, other depository institutions, insurance companies and securities firms to enter into business combinations that permit
a single financial services organization to offer customers a more complete array of financial products and services. The GLB Act provides a new regulatory framework through a financial holding company, which has as its umbrella regulator the
Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”). The functional regulation of the separately regulated subsidiaries of a holding company is conducted by the subsidiary’s primary functional regulator.

The GLB Act also provides federal regulations dealing with privacy for nonpublic personal
information of individual customers, which the Company and its subsidiaries must comply with. In addition, the Company, including its subsidiaries, is subject to various state laws that deal with the use and distribution of non-public personal
information.

The Parent is a financial holding company and, as such, is
subject to the BHC Act. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the FRB for a financial holding company to acquire or hold more than 5% voting interest in any bank. The BHC Act allows, subject to certain limitations, interstate bank acquisitions
and interstate branching by acquisition anywhere in the country.

The BHC Act
restricts the Company’s nonbanking activities to those that are permitted for financial holding companies or that have been determined by the FRB to be financial in nature, incidental to financial activities, or complementary to a financial
activity. The BHC Act does not place territorial restrictions on the activities of nonbank subsidiaries of financial holding companies. The Company’s banking subsidiaries, however, are subject to limitations with respect to transactions with
affiliates.

The Company’s banking subsidiaries are also subject to
various requirements and restrictions in both the laws of the United States and the states in which the banks operate. These include:

•

restrictions on the amount of loans to a borrower and its affiliates;

•

the nature and amount of any investments;

•

their ability to act as an underwriter of securities;

•

the opening of branches; and

•

the acquisition of other financial entities.

In addition, the Company’s subsidiary banks are subject to either the provisions of the National Bank Act or the banking laws of their respective states, as well as
the rules and regulations of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the FRB, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). They are also under the supervision of, and are subject to periodic examination by, the OCC or
their respective state banking departments, the FRB, and the FDIC.



The FRB has established capital guidelines for financial holding companies. The OCC, the FDIC, and the FRB have also
issued regulations establishing capital requirements for banks. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the Company and its subsidiary banks to a variety of restrictions and enforcement remedies. See Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for information regarding capital requirements.

The U.S.
federal bank regulatory agencies’ risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 capital accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“the BIS”). The BIS is a committee of central banks and bank supervisors/regulators
from the major industrialized countries that develops broad policy guidelines that each country’s supervisors can use to determine the supervisory policies they apply. In January 2001, the BIS released a proposal to replace the 1988 capital
accord with a new capital accord that would set capital requirements for operational risk and materially change the existing capital requirements for credit risk and market risk exposures. Operational risk is defined by the proposal to mean the risk
of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. The 1988 capital accord does not include separate capital requirements for operational risk.

The BIS has stated that its objective is to finalize a new capital accord for implementation
by the member countries at year-end 2006 (“Basel II”). Since the accord is not yet final, the ultimate timing for implementation and the specifics of capital assessments for addressing operational risk are still uncertain. However, the
Company expects that a new capital accord will eventually be adopted by the BIS and implemented by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies. The Company is evaluating what effect the new capital requirements that may arise out of a new BIS capital
accord may have on its minimum capital requirements. U.S. banking regulators have stated that the approximately ten largest U.S. bank holding companies will be required to adopt the new standard, and that others may “opt in.” The Company
does not currently expect to be an early “opt in” bank and does not have in place the data collection and analytic capabilities necessary to adopt Basel II. However, it believes that competitive advantages afforded to banks that do adopt
may make it necessary for the Company to adopt the new Basel II approach at some point, and it is currently investing in the required capabilities.

Dividends payable by the subsidiary banks to the Parent are subject to various legal and regulatory restrictions. These restrictions and the amount available for the
payment of dividends at year-end are summarized in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 provides that the Company’s bank subsidiaries are liable for any loss incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an affiliated
insured bank.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991 prescribes standards for the safety and soundness of insured banks. These standards relate to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, and
compensation, as well as other operational and management standards deemed appropriate by the federal banking regulatory agencies.

The Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requires banks to help serve the credit needs in their communities, including credit to low and moderate income
individuals. Should the Company or its subsidiaries fail to adequately serve their communities, penalties may be imposed including denials of applications to add branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, and merge with or purchase other
financial institutions. The GLB Act requires “satisfactory” or higher CRA compliance for insured depository institutions and their financial holding companies for them to engage in new financial activities. If one of the Company’s
banks should receive a CRA rating of less than satisfactory, the Company could lose its status as a financial holding company.



On October 26, 2001, the President signed into law comprehensive anti-terrorism legislation known as the USA PATRIOT Act
of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”). Title III of the USA Patriot Act substantially broadens the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, defining new crimes
and related penalties, and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The U.S. Treasury Department (“the Treasury”) has issued a number of implementation regulations, which apply various requirements of the USA
Patriot Act to financial institutions. The Company’s bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries and mutual funds and private investment companies advised or sponsored by the Company’s subsidiaries must comply with these regulations. These
regulations also impose new obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing.

Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA Patriot Act’s requirements
could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. The Company has adopted appropriate policies, procedures and controls to address compliance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act under the existing regulations and
will continue to revise and update its policies, procedures and controls to reflect changes required by the Act and the Treasury’s regulations.

Regulators and Congress continue to enact rules, laws, and policies to regulate the financial services industry and to protect consumers. The nature of these laws and
regulations and the effect of such policies on future business and earnings of the Company cannot be predicted.

GOVERNMENT MONETARY POLICIES

The earnings and business of the Company are affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by fiscal and other policies adopted by various governmental
authorities. The Company is particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which affects the national supply of bank credit. The methods of monetary policy available to the FRB include:

•

open-market operations in U.S. government securities;

•

adjustment of the discount rates or cost of bank borrowings;

•

imposing or changing reserve requirements against member bank deposits; and

•

imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates.

These methods are used in varying combinations to influence the overall growth or contraction of bank loans, investments and deposits, and
the interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits.

In view of the
changing conditions in the economy and the effect of the FRB’s monetary policies, it is difficult to predict future changes in loan demand, deposit levels and interest rates, or their effect on the business and earnings of the Company. FRB
monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

At year-end 2003, the Company operated
412 domestic branches, of which 157 are owned and 255 are on leased premises. The Company also leases its headquarters offices in Salt Lake City, Utah. Other operations facilities are variously owned or leased. The annual rentals under long-term
leases for leased premises are determined under various formulas and factors, including operating costs, maintenance, and taxes. For information regarding rental payments, see Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information contained in
Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER

MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

MARKET INFORMATION

The Company’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “ZION.” The last reported sale price of the common stock on NASDAQ
on February 23, 2004 was $57.68 per share.

The following table sets forth, for
the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices of the Company’s common stock, as quoted on NASDAQ:

As of February 23, 2004, there were
6,506 holders of record of the Company’s common stock.

DIVIDENDS

Frequency and amount of dividends
paid during the last two years:

1st Qtr

2nd Qtr

3rd Qtr

4th Qtr


$

.21

$

.21

$

.30

$

.30


.20

.20

.20

.20

On January 20, 2004, the
Company’s Board of Directors approved a dividend of $.30 per share payable on February 25, 2004.

SHARE REPURCHASES

The following table summarizes the Company’s share repurchases for 2003.

(1)

All shares were purchased as part of publicly announced plans.

(2)

Prior to January 2003, the Company’s Board of Directors had authorized a stock buyback plan to repurchase a total of $50 million of the Company’s common shares. As of
January 1, 2003, $27.6 million were yet to be purchased. On each of April 25, 2003, October 17, 2003, and January 20, 2004, the Board authorized $50 million for share repurchases, superseding the previous authorizations.



EQUITY
COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION

The following table provides information as of
December 31, 2003 with respect to the shares of the Company’s common stock that may be issued under existing equity compensation plans.

(1)

The table does not include information for equity compensation plans assumed by the Company in mergers. A total of 583,730 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise
price of $37.98 were issuable upon exercise of options granted under plans assumed in mergers and outstanding at December 31, 2003. The Company cannot grant additional awards under these assumed plans.

(2)

On May 26, 2000, the Company’s shareholders approved an amendment to the Key Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan which automatically makes available for options under the
Plan, in any one calendar year, two percent (2%) of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock as of the first day of each calendar year for which the Plan is in effect. Any shares of common stock available in any year
using the two percent (2%) formula that are not granted under the Plan are available for use under the terms of the Plan in subsequent years. The common stock available for issuance under the Plan pursuant to the two percent (2%) per year formula
does not include common stock which the Company is now or may become obligated to issue as a result of an acquisition, merger or reorganization involving the Company.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

An evaluation was carried out by the Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2003, these disclosure controls and procedures were effective. There
have been no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2003 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.



PART III

Incorporated by reference from the Company’s Proxy Statement to be dated approximately March 15, 2004. Information regarding securities
authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included in Item 5 under “Equity Compensation Plan Information.”

PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and report of independent auditors are included in Exhibit 13.

Financial Statement Schedules – All financial statement schedules for which provision is
made in the applicable accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions, the required information is contained elsewhere in the Form 10-K, or the schedules are inapplicable and have
therefore been omitted.

Exhibits – The index of exhibits and any exhibits
filed as part of the 2003 Form10-K are accessible at no cost on the Company’s website at

www.zionsbancorporation.com

or through the United States Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at

www.sec.gov

. Copies of exhibits
may also be requested from the Company’s investor relations department.

Reports on Form 8-K filed during the fourth quarter of 2003:

October
17, 2003 – Items 7 and 12. Exhibit 99.1. A copy of a press release dated October 16, 2003 announcing third quarter 2003 earnings.

October 23, 2003 – Items 7 and 9. Exhibit 99.1. A copy of a press release dated October 17, 2003 announcing the Board of Directors’ authorization of a $0.30
dividend payable November 26, 2003 and an authorization to repurchase $50 million of the Company’s common stock, superseding all previous buyback authorizations.

November 4, 2003 – Item 5. On October 16, 2003, Zions Bancorporation announced, via press release, its financial results for the
quarter ended September 30, 2003. Includes excerpts from the press release.

November 5, 2003 – Item 7. Filing exhibits to its Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-107746), which was filed on August 7, 2003.



List of Exhibits:







SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

March 15, 2004

12