Item 1. Business.



3M Company was
incorporated in 1929 under the laws of the State of Delaware to continue
operations begun in 1902. The Company’s ticker symbol is MMM. As used herein,
the term “3M” or “Company” includes 3M Company and its subsidiaries unless the
context indicates otherwise. In this document, for any references to Note 1
through Note 19, refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8.



Available
Information



The SEC maintains a
website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically
with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that the Company files with
the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Company files annual reports, quarterly
reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). The
public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at
the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



3M also makes available
free of charge through its website (http://investor.3M.com) the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable
after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to,
the SEC.



General



3M is a diversified
technology company with a global presence in the following businesses:
Industrial and Transportation; Health Care; Consumer and Office; Safety,
Security and Protection Services; Display and Graphics; and Electro and
Communications. 3M is among the leading manufacturers of products for many of
the markets it serves. Most 3M products involve expertise in product
development, manufacturing and marketing, and are subject to competition from
products manufactured and sold by other technologically oriented companies.



At December 31,
2009, the Company employed 74,835 people (full-time equivalents), with 31,513
employed in the United States and 43,322 employed internationally.



Business
Segments



As discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, effective in the first quarter of 2009, 3M made certain product
moves between its business segments in its continuing effort to drive growth by
aligning businesses around markets and customers. Segment information presented
herein reflects the impact of these changes for all periods presented.



3M continues to manage its operations in six operating
business segments: Industrial and Transportation; Health Care; Consumer and
Office; Safety, Security and Protection Services; Display and Graphics; and
Electro and Communications. 3M’s six business segments bring together common or
related 3M technologies, enhancing the development of innovative products and
services and providing for efficient sharing of business resources. These
segments have worldwide responsibility for virtually all 3M product lines.
Certain small businesses and lab-sponsored products, as well as various
corporate assets and expenses, are not attributed to the business segments.
Financial information and other disclosures relating to 3M’s business segments
and operations in major geographic areas are provided in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Industrial and Transportation
Business:The
Industrial and Transportation segment serves a broad range of markets, such as
appliance, paper and packaging, food and beverage, electronics, automotive
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and automotive aftermarket (auto body
shops and retail). Industrial and Transportation products include tapes, a wide
variety of coated and non-woven abrasives, adhesives, specialty materials,
filtration products, energy control products, closure systems for personal
hygiene products, and components and products that are used in the manufacture,
repair and maintenance of automotive, marine, aircraft and specialty vehicles.



Major industrial products
include vinyl, polyester, foil and specialty industrial tapes and adhesives;
Scotch® Masking Tape, Scotch® Filament Tape and Scotch® Packaging Tape;
packaging equipment; 3M™ VHB™ Bonding Tapes; conductive, low surface energy,
hot melt, spray and structural adhesives; reclosable fasteners; label materials
for durable goods; and coated, nonwoven and microstructured surface finishing
and grinding abrasives for the industrial








Table of
Contents



market. 3M Purification Inc.
(previously referred to as CUNO Incorporated), provides a comprehensive line of
filtration products for the separation, clarification and purification of
fluids and gases. Other industrial products include fluoroelastomers for seals,
tubes and gaskets in engines; and engineering fluids. In addition, this segment
provides 3M™ Scotchtint™ Window Film for buildings; 3M™ Ultra Safety and
Security Window Film for property and personal protection during destructive
weather conditions; and closures for disposable diapers.



Major transportation
products include insulation components, including components for catalytic
converters; functional and decorative graphics; abrasion-resistant films;
masking tapes; fasteners and tapes for attaching nameplates, trim, moldings,
interior panels and carpeting; coated, nonwoven and microstructured finishing
and grinding abrasives; structural adhesives; and other specialty materials. In
addition, 3M provides paint finishing and detailing products, including a
complete system of cleaners, dressings, polishes, waxes and other products.



Health Care Business:The Health Care segment serves markets
that include medical clinics and hospitals, pharmaceuticals, dental and
orthodontic practitioners, and health information systems. Products and
services provided to these and other markets include medical and surgical
supplies, skin health and infection prevention products, drug delivery systems,
dental and orthodontic products, health information systems and anti-microbial
solutions. As discussed in Note 2, 3M completed the sale of its global branded
pharmaceuticals business in Europe in January 2007.



In the medical and
surgical areas, 3M is a supplier of medical tapes, dressings, wound closure
products, orthopedic casting materials, electrodes and stethoscopes. In
infection prevention, 3M markets a variety of surgical drapes, masks and preps,
as well as sterilization assurance equipment. Other products include drug
delivery systems, such as metered-dose inhalers, transdermal skin patches and
related components. Dental and orthodontic products include restoratives,
adhesives, finishing and polishing products, crowns, impression materials,
preventive sealants, professional tooth whiteners, prophylaxis and orthodontic
appliances. In health information systems, 3M develops and markets computer
software for hospital coding and data classification, and provides related
consulting services. 3M provides microbiology products that make it faster and
easier for food processors to test the microbiological quality of food.



Consumer and Office Business:The Consumer and Office segment serves
markets that include consumer retail, office retail, home improvement, building
maintenance and other markets. Products in this segment include office supply
products, stationery products, construction and home improvement products, home
care products, protective material products and consumer health care products.



Major consumer and office
products include Scotch® brand products, such as Scotch® Magic™ Tape, Scotch®
Glue Stick and Scotch® Cushioned Mailer; Post-it® Products, such as Post-it®
Flags, Post-it® Note Pads, Post-it® Labeling & Cover-up Tape, and
Post-it® Pop-up Notes and Dispensers; construction and home improvement
products, including surface-preparation and wood-finishing materials, Command™
Adhesive Products and Filtrete™ Filters for furnaces and air conditioners; home
care products, including Scotch-Brite® Scour Pads, Scotch-Brite® Scrub Sponges,
Scotch-Brite™ Microfiber Cloth products, O-Cel-O™ Sponges and Scotchgard™
Fabric Protectors; protective material products; certain maintenance-free
respirators; certain consumer retail personal safety products, including safety
glasses and hearing protectors; and Nexcare™ Adhesive Bandages. In July 2009,
3M acquired ACE® branded (and related brands) elastic bandage, supports and
thermometer product lines.



Safety,
Security and Protection Services Business:The Safety, Security and Protection Services segment
serves a broad range of markets that increase the safety, security and
productivity of workers, facilities and systems. Major product offerings
include personal protection products, safety and security products (including
border and civil security solutions), cleaning and protection products for
commercial establishments, track and trace solutions, and roofing granules for
asphalt shingles. In April 2008, 3M acquired Aearo Holding Corp., the
parent company of Aearo Technologies Inc. (hereafter referred to as Aearo).
Aearo manufactures and sells personal protection and energy absorbing products,
which expanded 3M’s platform by adding hearing protection as well as eyewear
and fall protection product lines to 3M’s existing line of respiratory
products. The consumer retail portion of Aearo’s business is included in 3M’s
Consumer and Office business segment.



This segment’s products
include certain maintenance-free and reusable respirators, personal protective
equipment, electronic surveillance products, films that protect against
counterfeiting, and reflective materials that are widely used on apparel,
footwear and accessories, enhancing visibility in low-light situations. 3M’s
Track and Trace Solutions business utilizes radio frequency identification
(RFID) technology to provide a growing array of solutions — from library patron
self-checkout systems to tracking packages. Other products include
spill-control sorbents; Thinsulate™ Insulation and Thinsulate™ Lite Loft™
Insulation; nonwoven abrasive materials for floor maintenance and commercial
cleaning; floor matting; and natural and color-coated mineral granules for
asphalt shingles. In the second








Table of
Contents



quarter of 2008, 3M
completed the sale of its HighJump Software business which provided supply
chain execution software solutions.



Display and Graphics Business:The Display and Graphics segment serves
markets that include electronic display, traffic safety and commercial
graphics. This segment includes optical film solutions for electronic displays;
computer screen filters; reflective sheeting for transportation safety;
commercial graphics systems; and projection systems, including mobile display
technology and visual systems products.



The optical film business
provides films that serve numerous market segments of the electronic display
industry. 3M provides distinct products for five market segments, including
products for: 1) LCD computer monitors, 2) LCD televisions, 3) hand-held
devices such as cellular phones, 4) notebook PCs and 5) automotive displays.
Other optical products include desktop and notebook computer screen filters
that address needs for light control, privacy viewing and glare reduction. In
traffic safety systems, 3M provides reflective sheetings used on highway signs,
vehicle license plates, construction work-zone devices, trucks and other
vehicles, and also provides pavement marking systems. Major commercial graphics
products include films, inks, digital signage systems and related products used
to produce graphics for vehicles and signs. The projection systems business
focuses on bringing technology to the projection market, including mobile
display technology in addition to its visual communication products that serve
the world’s office and education markets with overhead projectors and
transparency films, as well as equipment and materials for electronic and
multimedia presentations.



Electro and Communications Business:The Electro and
Communications segment serves the electrical, electronics and communications
industries, including electrical utilities; electrical construction,
maintenance and repair; original equipment manufacturer (OEM) electrical and
electronics; computers and peripherals; consumer electronics;
telecommunications central office, outside plant and enterprise; as well as
aerospace, military, automotive and medical markets; with products that enable
the efficient transmission of electrical power and speed the delivery of
information. Products include electronic and interconnect solutions,
microinterconnect systems, high-performance fluids, high-temperature and
display tapes, telecommunications products, electrical products, and touch
screens and touch monitors.



Major electronic and
electrical products include packaging and interconnection devices;
high-performance fluids used in the manufacture of computer chips, and for
cooling electronics and lubricating computer hard disk drives; high-temperature
and display tapes; insulating materials, including pressure-sensitive tapes and
resins; and related items. 3M™ Flexible Circuits use electronic packaging and
interconnection technology, providing more connections in less space, and are
used in ink-jet print cartridges, cell phones and electronic devices. This
segment serves the world’s telecommunications companies with a wide array of
products for fiber-optic and copper-based telecommunications systems for rapid
deployment in fixed and wireless networks. The 3M™ Aluminum Conductor Composite
Reinforced (ACCR) electrical power cable, with an aluminum-based metal matrix
at its core, increases transmission capacity for existing power lines. The
touch systems business includes touch screens and touch monitors.



Distribution



3M products are sold
through numerous distribution channels, including directly to users and through
numerous wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in a wide
variety of trades in many countries around the world. Management believes the
confidence of wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in 3M
and its products — a confidence developed through long association with skilled
marketing and sales representatives — has contributed significantly to 3M’s
position in the marketplace and to its growth.



Research
and Patents



Research and product
development constitutes an important part of 3M’s activities and has been a
major driver of 3M’s sales growth. Research, development and related expenses
totaled $1.293 billion in 2009, $1.404 billion in 2008 and $1.368 billion in
2007. Research and development, covering basic scientific research and the
application of scientific advances in the development of new and improved
products and their uses, totaled $838 million in 2009, $851 million in 2008 and
$788 million in 2007. Related expenses primarily include technical support
provided by 3M to customers who are using existing 3M products; internally
developed patent costs, which include costs and fees incurred to prepare, file,
secure and maintain patents; and amortization of acquired patents.



The Company’s products
are sold around the world under various trademarks. The Company also owns, or
holds licenses to use, numerous U.S. and foreign patents. The Company’s
research and development activities generate a steady stream of inventions that
are covered by new patents. Patents applicable to specific products extend for
varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or patent
grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent
protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can
vary








Table of
Contents



from country to country,
depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability
of legal remedies in the country.



The Company believes that
its patents provide an important competitive advantage in many of its businesses.
In general, no single patent or group of related patents is in itself essential
to the Company as a whole or to any of the Company’s business segments. The
importance of patents in the Display and Graphics segment is described in “Performance
by Business Segment” — “Display and Graphics Business” in Part II, Item 7,
of this Form 10-K.



Raw Materials



In 2009, the Company experienced cost decreases in
most raw materials and transportation fuel costs. This was driven by lower
basic feedstock costs, particularly metals and oil derived materials. To date,
the Company is receiving sufficient quantities of all raw materials to meet its
reasonably foreseeable production requirements. It is impossible to predict
future shortages of raw materials or the impact any such shortages would have.
3M has avoided disruption to its manufacturing operations through careful
management of existing raw material inventories and development and
qualification of additional supply sources. 3M manages commodity price risks
through negotiated supply contracts, price protection agreements and forward
physical contracts.



Environmental Law Compliance



3M’s manufacturing operations are affected by
national, state and local environmental laws around the world. 3M has made, and
plans to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable
laws. 3M is also involved in remediation actions relating to environmental
matters from past operations at certain sites (refer to “Environmental and
Other Liabilities and Insurance Receivables” in Note 14, Commitments and
Contingencies).



Environmental expenditures relating to existing
conditions caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or
future revenues are expensed. Reserves for liabilities for anticipated remediation
costs are recorded on an undiscounted basis when they are probable and
reasonably estimable, generally no later than the completion of feasibility
studies or the Company’s commitment to a plan of action. Environmental
expenditures for capital projects that contribute to current or future
operations generally are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated
useful lives.



In 2009, 3M expended about $15 million for capital
projects related to protecting the environment. This amount excludes expenditures
for remediation actions relating to existing matters caused by past operations
that do not contribute to current or future revenues, which are expensed.
Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have included pollution control
devices — such as wastewater treatment plant improvements, scrubbers,
containment structures, solvent recovery units and thermal oxidizers — at new
and existing facilities constructed or upgraded in the normal course of
business. Consistent with the Company’s policies stressing environmental
responsibility, capital expenditures (other than for remediation projects) for
known projects are presently expected to be about $22 million over the
next two years for new or expanded programs to build facilities or modify
manufacturing processes to minimize waste and reduce emissions.



While the Company cannot predict with certainty the
future costs of such cleanup activities, capital expenditures or operating
costs for environmental compliance, the Company does not believe they will have
a material effect on its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
position.



Executive Officers



Following is a list of
the executive officers of 3M, and their age, present position, the year elected
to their present position and other positions they have held during the past
five years. No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers
named, nor is there any undisclosed arrangement or understanding pursuant to
which any person was selected as an officer. This information is presented as
of the date of the 10-K filing (February 16, 2010).








Table of
Contents



NameAgePresent PositionYear Elected to Present PositionOther Positions Held During 2005-2009

George W. Buckley62Chairman
  of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer2005Chairman
  and Chief Executive Officer, Brunswick Corporation, 2000-2005



Patrick D. Campbell57Senior
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer2002



Joaquin Delgado50Executive
  Vice President, Electro and Communications Business2009Vice
  President and General Manager, Electronics Markets Materials Division,
  2007-2009

Vice
  President, Research and Development and New Business Ventures, Consumer and
  Office Business, 2005-2007

Managing
  Director, 3M Korea,2003-2005



Joe E. Harlan50Executive
  Vice President, Consumer and Office Business2009Executive
  Vice President, Electro and Communications Business, 2004-2009



Michael A. Kelly53Executive
  Vice President, Display and Graphics Business2006Division
  Vice President, Occupational Health and Environmental Safety Division,
  2003-2006



Angela S. Lalor44Senior
  Vice President, Human Resources2006Staff
  Vice President, Human Resources Operations, 2005

Executive
  Director, Human Resources Operations, 2004-2005



Jean Lobey57Executive
  Vice President, Safety, Security and Protection Services Business2005



Robert D. MacDonald59Senior
  Vice President, Marketing and Sales2004



Frederick J. Palensky60Executive
  Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer2006Executive
  Vice President, Enterprise Services, 2005-2006Executive
  Vice President, Safety, Security and Protection ServicesBusiness,
  2002-2005



Brad T. Sauer50Executive
  Vice President, Health Care Business2004



Hak Cheol Shin52Executive
  Vice President, Industrial and Transportation Business2006Executive
  Vice President, Industrial Business, 2005

Division
  Vice President, Industrial Adhesives and Tapes Division, 2003-2005



Marschall I. Smith65Senior
  Vice President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel2007Vice
  President and General Counsel Brunswick Corporation, 2001-2007



Inge G. Thulin56Executive
  Vice President, International Operations2004



John K. Woodworth58Senior
  Vice President, Corporate Supply Chain Operations2006Vice
  President, Asia Pacific, 2004-2006








Table of
Contents



