Item 1. Business.



3M Company was incorporated in 1929 under the laws of the State of Delaware to continue operations begun in 1902. The Company’s ticker symbol is MMM. As used herein, the term “3M” or “Company” includes 3M Company and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. In this document, for any references to Note 1 through Note 17, refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.



Available Information



The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that the Company files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Company files annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). The public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



3M also makes available free of charge through its website (http://investor.3M.com) the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.



General



3M is a diversified technology company with a global presence in the following businesses: Industrial; Safety and Graphics; Electronics and Energy; Health Care; and Consumer. 3M is among the leading manufacturers of products for many of the markets it serves. Most 3M products involve expertise in product development, manufacturing and marketing, and are subject to competition from products manufactured and sold by other technologically oriented companies.



At December 31, 2014, the Company employed 89,800 people (full-time equivalents), with 35,581 employed in the United States and 54,219 employed internationally.



Business Segments



As described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, effective in the first quarter of 2014, 3M transferred a product line between divisions within different business segments and made other changes within business segments in its continuing effort to improve the alignment of its businesses around markets and customers. In addition, effective in the second quarter of 2014, within the Electronics and Energy business segment, 3M combined three existing divisions into two new divisions. A large portion of both the Electronics Markets Materials Division and the Electronic Solutions Division were combined to form the Electronics Materials Solutions Division, which focuses on semiconductor and electronics materials and assembly solutions. The Optical Systems Division, the remaining portion of the Electronic Solutions Division and a portion of the Electronics Markets Materials Division were combined to form the Display Materials and Systems Division, which focuses on delivering light, color and user interface solutions. Also, effective in the fourth quarter of 2014, within the Industrial business segment, the Personal Care Division, which focuses on tapes and attachment systems for infant and adult hygiene, was combined with the Industrial Adhesives and Tapes Division.



3M manages its operations in five operating business segments: Industrial; Safety and Graphics; Electronics and Energy; Health Care; and Consumer. 3M’s five business segments bring together common or related 3M technologies, enhancing the development of innovative products and services and providing for efficient sharing of business resources. These segments have worldwide responsibility for virtually all 3M product lines. Certain small businesses and lab-sponsored products, as well as various corporate assets and expenses, are not attributed to the business segments. Financial information and other disclosures relating to 3M’s business segments and operations in major geographic areas are provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.











Industrial Business:The Industrial segment serves a broad range of markets, such as automotive original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and automotive aftermarket (auto body shops and retail), electronics, appliance, paper and printing, packaging, food and beverage, and construction. Industrial products include tapes, a wide variety of coated, non-woven and bonded abrasives, adhesives, advanced ceramics, sealants, specialty materials, 3M Purification Inc. (filtration products), closure systems for personal hygiene products, acoustic systems products, and components and products that are used in the manufacture, repair and maintenance of automotive, marine, aircraft and specialty vehicles. 3M is also a leading global supplier of precision grinding technology serving customers in the area of hard-to-grind precision applications in industrial, automotive, aircraft and cutting tools. In the fourth quarter of 2012, 3M acquired Ceradyne, Inc., which develops and produces advanced technical ceramics for demanding applications in the automotive, oil and gas, solar, industrial, electronics and defense industries.



Major industrial products include vinyl, polyester, foil and specialty industrial tapes and adhesives; Scotch® Masking Tape, Scotch® Filament Tape and Scotch® Packaging Tape; packaging equipment; 3M™ VHB™ Bonding Tapes; conductive, low surface energy, sealants, hot melt, spray and structural adhesives; reclosable fasteners; label materials for durable goods; and coated, nonwoven and microstructured surface finishing and grinding abrasives for the industrial market. 3M Purification Inc. provides a comprehensive line of filtration products for the separation, clarification and purification of fluids and gases. Other industrial products include fluoroelastomers for seals, tubes and gaskets in engines.



Major transportation products include insulation components, including Thinsulate™ Acoustic Insulation and components for cabin noise reduction and catalytic converters; functional and decorative graphics; abrasion-resistant films; adhesives; sealants; masking tapes; fasteners and tapes for attaching nameplates, trim, moldings, interior panels and carpeting; coated, nonwoven and microstructured finishing and grinding abrasives; structural adhesives; and other specialty materials. In addition, 3M provides paint finishing and detailing products, including a complete system of cleaners, dressings, polishes, waxes and other products.



Safety and Graphics Business:The Safety and Graphics segment serves a broad range of markets that increase the safety, security and productivity of people, facilities and systems. Major product offerings include personal protection products; traffic safety and security products, including border and civil security solutions; commercial solutions, including commercial graphics sheeting and systems, architectural surface and lighting solutions, and cleaning and protection products for commercial establishments; and roofing granules for asphalt shingles.



This segment’s products include personal protection products, such as certain maintenance-free and reusable respirators, personal protective equipment, head and face protection, body protection, hearing protection and protective eyewear. In traffic safety and security, 3M provides reflective sheeting used on highway signs, vehicle license plates, construction work-zone devices, trucks and other vehicles, and also provides pavement marking systems, in addition to electronic surveillance products, films that protect against counterfeiting, and reflective materials that are widely used on apparel, footwear and accessories, enhancing visibility in low-light situations. Traffic safety and security also provides finger, palm, face and iris biometric systems for governments, law enforcement agencies, and commercial enterprises, in addition to remote people-monitoring technologies used for offender-monitoring applications. Major commercial graphics products include films, inks, digital signage systems and related products used to produce graphics for vehicles, signs and interior surfaces. Other products include spill-control sorbents; nonwoven abrasive materials for floor maintenance and commercial cleaning; floor matting; and natural and color-coated mineral granules for asphalt shingles.



Electronics and Energy Business:The Electronics and Energy segment serves customers in electronics and energy markets, including solutions that improve the dependability, cost-effectiveness, and performance of electronic devices; electrical products, including infrastructure protection; telecommunications networks, and power generation and distribution.



This segment’s electronics solutions include the display materials and systems business, which provides films that serve numerous market segments of the electronic display industry. 3M provides distinct products for five market segments, including products for: 1) LCD computer monitors 2) LCD televisions 3) handheld devices such as cellular phones and tablets 4) notebook PCs and 5) automotive displays. This segment also provides desktop and notebook computer screen filters that address display light control, privacy, and glare reduction needs. Major electronics products also include packaging and interconnection devices; high performance fluids and abrasives used in the manufacture of computer chips, and for cooling electronics and lubricating computer hard disk drives; and high-temperature and display tapes. Flexible circuits use electronic packaging and interconnection technology, providing more connections in less space, and are used in ink-jet printer cartridges, cell phones and electronic devices. This segment also includes the touch systems products, including touch screens, touch monitors, and touch sensor components.











This segment’s energy solutions include electrical products, including infrastructure protection, telecommunications, and renewable energy. This segment serves the worlds electrical and telecommunications markets, including electrical utilities, electrical construction, maintenance and repair, original equipment manufacturers (OEM), telecommunications central office, outside plant and enterprise, as well as aerospace, military, automotive and medical markets, with products that enable the efficient transmission of electrical power and speed the delivery of information. Products in this segment include pressure sensitive tapes and resins, electrical insulation, a wide array of fiber-optic and copper-based telecommunications systems for rapid deployment of fixed and wireless networks, as well as the 3M™ Aluminum Conductor Composite Reinforced (ACCR) electrical power cable that increases transmission capacity for existing power lines. This segment also includes renewable energy component solutions for the solar and wind power industries, as well as infrastructure products solutions that provide municipalities both protection and detection solutions for electrical, oil, natural gas, water, rebar and other infrastructure assets.



Health Care Business:The Health Care segment serves markets that include medical clinics and hospitals, pharmaceuticals, dental and orthodontic practitioners, health information systems, and food manufacturing and testing. Products and services provided to these and other markets include medical and surgical supplies, skin health and infection prevention products, inhalation and transdermal drug delivery systems, dental and orthodontic products (oral care), health information systems, and food safety products. In April 2014, 3M (Health Care Business) purchased all of the outstanding equity interests of Treo Solutions LLC, headquartered in Troy, New York. Treo Solutions LLC is a provider of data analytics and business intelligence to healthcare payers and providers.



In the medical and surgical areas, 3M is a supplier of medical tapes, dressings, wound closure products, orthopedic casting materials, electrodes and stethoscopes. In infection prevention, 3M markets a variety of surgical drapes, masks and preps, as well as sterilization assurance equipment and patient warming solutions designed to prevent hypothermia in surgical settings. Other products include drug delivery systems, such as metered-dose inhalers, transdermal skin patches and related components. Dental and orthodontic products include restoratives, adhesives, finishing and polishing products, crowns, impression materials, preventive sealants, professional tooth whiteners, prophylaxis and orthodontic appliances, as well as digital workflow solutions to transform traditional impression and analog processes. In health information systems, 3M develops and markets computer software for hospital coding and data classification, and provides related consulting services. 3M provides food safety products that make it faster and easier for food processors to test the microbiological quality of food.



Consumer Business:The Consumer segment serves markets that include consumer retail, office retail, office business to business, home improvement, drug and pharmacy retail, and other markets. Products in this segment include office supply products, stationery products, construction and home improvement products (do-it-yourself), home care products, protective material products, certain consumer retail personal safety products, and consumer health care products.



Major consumer products include Scotch® brand products, such as Scotch® Magic™ Tape, Scotch® Glue Stick and Scotch® Cushioned Mailer; Post-it® Products, such as Post-it® Flags, Post-it® Note Pads, Post-it® Labeling & Cover-up Tape, and Post-it® Pop-up Notes and Dispensers; construction and home improvement products, including surface-preparation and wood-finishing materials, Command™ Adhesive Products and Filtrete™ Filters for furnaces and air conditioners; home care products, including Scotch-Brite® Scour Pads, Scotch-Brite® Scrub Sponges, Scotch-Brite™ Microfiber Cloth products, O-Cel-O™ Sponges; protective material products, such as Scotchgard™ Fabric Protectors; certain maintenance-free respirators; certain consumer retail personal safety products, including safety glasses, hearing protectors, and 3M™ Thinsulate™ Insulation, which is used in jackets, pants, gloves, hats and boots to keep people warm; Nexcare™ Adhesive Bandages; and ACE® branded (and related brands) elastic bandage, supports and thermometer product lines.



Distribution



3M products are sold through numerous distribution channels, including directly to users and through numerous wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in a wide variety of trades in many countries around the world. Management believes the confidence of wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in 3M and its products — a confidence developed through long association with skilled marketing and sales representatives — has contributed significantly to 3M’s position in the marketplace and to its growth.











Research and Patents



Research and product development constitutes an important part of 3M’s activities and has been a major driver of 3M’s sales and profit growth. Research, development and related expenses totaled $1.770 billion in 2014, $1.715 billion in 2013 and $1.634 billion in 2012. Research and development, covering basic scientific research and the application of scientific advances in the development of new and improved products and their uses, totaled $1.193 billion in 2014, $1.150 billion in 2013 and $1.079 billion in 2012. Related expenses primarily include technical support provided by 3M to customers who are using existing 3M products; internally developed patent costs, which include costs and fees incurred to prepare, file, secure and maintain patents; amortization of externally acquired patents and externally acquired in-process research and development; and gains/losses associated with certain corporate approved investments in R&D-related ventures, such as equity method effects and impairments.



The Company’s products are sold around the world under various trademarks. The Company also owns, or holds licenses to use, numerous U.S. and foreign patents. The Company’s research and development activities generate a steady stream of inventions that are covered by new patents. Patents applicable to specific products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or patent grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country.



The Company believes that its patents provide an important competitive advantage in many of its businesses. In general, no single patent or group of related patents is in itself essential to the Company as a whole or to any of the Company’s business segments. The importance of patents in the Electronics and Energy segment is described in “Performance by Business Segment” — “Electronics and Energy Business” in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Raw Materials



In 2014, the Company experienced stable to declining costs for most raw material categories and transportation fuel. This was driven by year-on-year cost decreases in many feedstock categories, including petroleum based materials, minerals, metals and wood pulp based products. To date, the Company is receiving sufficient quantities of all raw materials to meet its reasonably foreseeable production requirements. It is impossible to predict future shortages of raw materials or the impact any such shortages would have. 3M has avoided disruption to its manufacturing operations through careful management of existing raw material inventories and development and qualification of additional supply sources. 3M manages commodity price risks through negotiated supply contracts, price protection agreements and forward contracts.



Environmental Law Compliance



3M’s manufacturing operations are affected by national, state and local environmental laws around the world. 3M has made, and plans to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. 3M is also involved in remediation actions relating to environmental matters from past operations at certain sites (refer to “Environmental Matters and Litigation” in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies).



Environmental expenditures relating to existing conditions caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or future revenues are expensed. Reserves for liabilities for anticipated remediation costs are recorded on an undiscounted basis when they are probable and reasonably estimable, generally no later than the completion of feasibility studies, the Company’s commitment to a plan of action, or approval by regulatory agencies. Environmental expenditures for capital projects that contribute to current or future operations generally are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.



In 2014, 3M expended about $28 million for capital projects related to protecting the environment. This amount excludes expenditures for remediation actions relating to existing matters caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or future revenues, which are expensed. Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have included pollution control devices — such as wastewater treatment plant improvements, scrubbers, containment structures, solvent recovery units and thermal oxidizers — at new and existing facilities constructed or upgraded in the normal course of business. Consistent with the Company’s policies stressing environmental responsibility, capital expenditures (other than for remediation projects) for known projects are presently expected to be about $51 million over the next two years for new or expanded programs to build facilities or modify manufacturing processes to minimize waste and reduce emissions.



While the Company cannot predict with certainty the future costs of such cleanup activities, capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, the Company does not believe they will have a material effect on its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.











Executive Officers



Following is a list of the executive officers of 3M, and their age, present position, the year elected to their present position and other positions they have held during the past five years. No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers named, nor is there any undisclosed arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer. This information is presented in the table below as of the date of the 10-K filing (February 12, 2015).



NameAgePresent PositionYearElected toPresentPositionOther Positions Held During 2010-2014

Inge G. Thulin61Chairman of   the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer2012President   and Chief Executive Officer, 2012Executive   Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, 2011-2012Executive   Vice President, International Operations, 2004-2011



James L. Bauman55Senior Vice   President, Business Transformation, Americas2015Senior Vice   President, Asia Pacific, 2012-2014Vice   President and General Manager, Optical Systems Division, 2008-2012



Julie L. Bushman53Senior Vice   President, Business Transformation and Information Technology2013Executive   Vice President, Safety and Graphics, 2012-2013Executive   Vice President, Safety, Security and Protection Services Business, 2011-2012Vice   President and General Manager, Occupational Health and Environmental Safety   Division, 2007-2011



Joaquin Delgado55Executive   Vice President, Health Care2012Executive   Vice President, Electro and Communications Business, 2009-2012



Ivan K. Fong53Senior Vice   President, Legal Affairs and General Counsel2012General   Counsel, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 2009-2012



Nicholas C. Gangestad50Senior Vice   President and Chief Financial Officer2014Vice   President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, 2011-2014Director,   Corporate Accounting, 2007-2011



Ian F. Hardgrove64Senior Vice   President, Corporate Communications and Enterprise Services2014Senior Vice   President, Marketing, Sales and Communications, 2011-2013Senior Vice   President, Marketing and Sales, 2011Vice   President and General Manager, Automotive Aftermarket Division, 2007-2011











Executive Officers (continued)



NameAgePresent PositionYearElected toPresentPositionOther Positions Held During 2010-2014

Paul A. Keel45Senior Vice   President, Supply Chain2014Managing   Director, 3M United Kingdom-Ireland Region, 2013-2014Vice   President and General Manager, Skin and Wound Care Division, 2010-2013Vice   President and General Manager, 3M Unitek Corporation, 2007-2010



Michael A. Kelly58Executive   Vice President, Electronics and Energy2012Executive   Vice President, Display and Graphics Business, 2006-2012



Ashish K. Khandpur47Senior Vice   President, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer2014Vice   President and General Manager, Personal Safety Division, 2014Vice   President, Research and Development, Industrial Business Group, 2013Vice   President, Research and Development, Industrial and Transportation   Business, 2012Technical   Director, Industrial and Transportation Business, Asia Pacific, 2011Technical   Director, 3M India and Sri Lanka, and Technical Director, Industrial and   Transportation Business, Asia Pacific, 2010-2011Technical   Director, 3M India and Sri Lanka, India, 2008-2010



Jon T. Lindekugel51Senior Vice   President, Business Development2014President,   Health Information Systems Inc., 2008-2014



Frank R. Little54Executive   Vice President, Safety and Graphics Business Group2013Vice   President and General Manager, Personal Safety Division, 2013Vice   President and General Manager, Occupational Health and Environmental Safety   Division, 2011-2012Managing   Director, 3M Korea, 2008-2011



Marlene M. McGrath52Senior Vice   President, Human Resources2012Vice   President, Human Resources, International Operations, 2010-2012Director,   Human Resources, International Operations, 2006-2010



Michael F. Roman55Executive   Vice President, Industrial Business Group2014Senior Vice   President, Business Development, 2013-2014Vice   President and General Manager, Industrial Adhesives and Tapes Division,   2011-2013Vice   President and General Manager, Renewable Energy Division, 2009-2011








Table of ContentsExecutive Officers (continued)NameAgePresent PositionYearElected toPresentPositionOther Positions Held During 2010-2014Hak Cheol Shin57Executive   Vice President, International Operations2011Executive   Vice President, Industrial and Transportation Division Business,   2006-2011Jesse G. Singh49Senior Vice   President, Marketing and Sales2014Vice   President and General Manager, Stationery and Office Supplies Division,   2012-2013President,   Sumitomo 3M Limited, 2007-2012Michael G. Vale48Executive   Vice President, Consumer2012Executive   Vice President, Consumer and Office Business, 2011-2012Managing   Director, 3M Brazil, 2009-20119






Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results



This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to shareholders and in press releases. In addition, the Company’s representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements.



Forward-looking statements relate to future events and typically address the Company’s expected future business and financial performance. Words such as “plan,” “expect,” “aim,” “believe,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” “should,” “could” and other words and terms of similar meaning, typically identify such forward-looking statements. In particular, these include, among others, statements relating to



·the Company’s strategy for growth, future revenues, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance, and market position,

·worldwide economic and capital markets conditions, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial conditions of our suppliers and customers, and natural and other disasters affecting the operations of the Company or our suppliers and customers,

·new business opportunities, product development, and future performance or results of current or anticipated products,

·the scope, nature or impact of acquisition, strategic alliance and divestiture activities,

·the outcome of contingencies, such as legal and regulatory proceedings,

·future levels of indebtedness, common stock repurchases and capital spending,

·future availability of and access to credit markets,

·pension and postretirement obligation assumptions and future contributions, asset impairments, tax liabilities, information technology security, and

·the effects of changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate.



The Company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.



Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events and trends that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or those reflected in any such forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors. Important information as to these factors can be found in this document, including, among others, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings of “Overview,” “Critical Accounting Estimates” and “Financial Condition and Liquidity.” Discussion of these factors is incorporated by reference from Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of this document, and should be considered an integral part of Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” For additional information concerning factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements, see our reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC from time to time.



