Item 1A.Risk
    Factors



A description of the risk factors associated with our business
    is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive and you should
    carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before
    investing in our common stock.





Fluctuations
    in demand for our products and services are driven by many
    factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could
    adversely affect our financial results.



We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and
    services due to a variety of factors, including general economic
    conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological
    change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and
    budget constraints of our current and potential customers,
    levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to IT
    systems, and other factors. While such factors may, in some
    periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also
    negatively impact our product sales. If demand for our products
    declines, our revenues and gross margin would likely be
    adversely affected.



If we
    are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services
    that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable
    to continually improve the performance, features, and
    reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our
    business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business
    and operating results could be adversely affected.



Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the
    rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or
    introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a
    timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and will continue to
    incur, significant research and development expenses as we
    strive to remain competitive. New product development and
    introduction involves a significant commitment of time and
    resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges
    including:



•Managing the length of the development cycle for new products
    and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than
    we originally expected•Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to
    technological developments by our competitors and customers•Extending the operation of our products and services to new and
    evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products,
    such as mobile devices.•Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited
    experience•Managing new product and service strategies, including
    integrating our various security and storage technologies,
    management solutions, customer service, and support into unified
    enterprise security and storage solutions•Addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship
    new or acquired products•Developing or expanding efficient sales channels•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access
    from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to
    enable the development and deployment of interoperable products,
    including source code licenses for certain products with deep
    technical integration into operating systems



If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges,
    or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not
    technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance,
    our business and operating results could be adversely affected.



We
    operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors
    may gain market share in the markets for our products that could
    adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to
    decline.



We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate
    or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new
    competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our
    competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop
    in revenue that could adversely affect our business and
    operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain an
    innovative research and development effort to develop new
    products and services and enhance existing products and
    services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or
    product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to
    competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological
    changes and changes in the ways that our information





is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer
    markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors
    or to changing technological and customer demands, we could
    experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our
    financial results.



Our traditional competitors include independent software vendors
    that offer software products that directly compete with our
    product offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors
    directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with
    them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the
    product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer
    hardware OEMs and ISPs. Our competitors could gain market share
    from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products
    with the products of our competitors or if these partners more
    actively promote our competitors’ products than our
    products. In addition, software vendors who have bundled our
    products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with
    their own or other vendors’ software or may limit our
    access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to
    develop products for their platform.



We face growing competition from network equipment, computer
    hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and
    other technology companies. These firms are increasingly
    developing and incorporating into their products data protection
    and storage and server management software that competes at some
    levels with our product offerings. Our competitive position
    could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers
    perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as
    replacing the need for our products.



Security protection is also offered by some of our competitors
    at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is bundled for
    free. Some companies offer the lower-priced or free security
    products within their computer hardware or software products
    that we believe are inferior to our products and SaaS offerings.
    Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the
    extent that our customers perceive these security products as
    replacing the need for more effective, full featured products
    and services such as those that we provide. The expansion of
    these competitive trends could have a significant negative
    impact on our sales and financial results.



Another growing industry trend is the SaaS business model, where
    software vendors develop and host their applications for use by
    customers over the Internet or through the “cloud.”
    This allows enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially
    licensed, internally operated software without the associated
    complexity or high initialset-upand
    operational costs. Advances in the SaaS business model could
    enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the
    success of our traditional software licensing models. Our
    inability to successfully develop and market new and existing
    SaaS offerings could cause us to lose business to competitors.



Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical,
    sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently
    may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their
    products instead of ours. Further consolidation within our
    industry or other changes in the competitive environment, such
    as Intel Corporation’s recently completed acquisition of
    MFE, could result in larger competitors that compete with us on
    several levels. We also face competition from many smaller
    companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets
    in which we compete.



Defects
    or disruptions in our SaaS offerings could reduce demand for our
    services and subject us to substantial liability.



Our SaaS offerings may contain errors or defects that users
    identify after they begin using them that could result in
    unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our
    reputation and our business. Since our customers use our SaaS
    offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to
    electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks,
    any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance
    problems with our SaaS offerings could significantly harm our
    reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If
    that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or
    withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers
    may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result
    in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an
    increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the
    expense and risk of litigation.





If we
    fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively
    or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to
    their customers, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.



We sell our products to customers around the world through
    multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. Sales through
    these different channels involve distinct risks, including the
    following:



Direct Sales.A significant portion of our
    revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our
    direct sales force to end-users. Special risks associated with
    direct sales include:



•Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts•Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales
    force•Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to
    become productive, including regular updates to cover new and
    revised products



Indirect Sales Channels.A significant portion
    of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels,
    including distributors that sell our products to end-users and
    other resellers. This channel involves a number of risks,
    including:



•Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products
    to end-users•Our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to
    minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our
    products to their customers•Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally
    nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause•Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute
    competing products and may, from time to time, place greater
    emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing,
    promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors•Recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased
    their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software
    providers



OEM Sales Channels.A significant portion of
    our revenues is derived from sales through our OEM partners that
    incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with,
    their products. Our reliance on this sales channel involves many
    risks, including:



•Our lack of control over the volume of systems shipped and the
    timing of such shipments•Our OEM partners are generally not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers•Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements
    with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive
    conditions in our markets and other factors•Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general
    economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and
    other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales•The development work that we must generally undertake under our
    agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest
    significant resources and incur significant costs with little or
    no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues•The time and expense required for the sales and marketing
    organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our
    products may make it more difficult to introduce those products
    to the market•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own
    products and market and distribute products of our competitors,
    which could reduce our sales



If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels
    successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or
    otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce
    our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our
    competitive position. Some of our distribution partners have
    experienced financial difficulties in the





past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the
    future because of general economic conditions or for other
    reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us
    and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that
    could adversely affect our operating results. In addition,
    reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could
    cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk
    that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and
    could result in adverse operating results in future periods.



We
    have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions,
    which gives rise to risks and challenges that could adversely
    affect our future financial results.



We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the
    future, other businesses, business units, and technologies.
    Acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and
    challenges, including:



•Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of
    acquired business operations, workforce, products, and
    technologies•Diversion of management time and attention•Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated
    with the termination or replacement of those employees•Assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including
    litigation related to the acquired business•The addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased
    expenses and working capital requirements•Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders•Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related
    expenses, write-off of in-process research and development,
    impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and
    stock-based compensation expense



If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we
    may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or
    suffer other adverse effects. To integrate acquired businesses,
    we must implement our technology systems in the acquired
    operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the
    acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the
    different cultures of acquired business organizations into our
    own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to
    enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and
    where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions.



Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability
    to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired
    businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of
    acquisitions.



Risks
    related to the provision of our SaaS offerings could impair our
    ability to deliver our services and could expose us to
    liability.



We currently serve our SaaS-based customers from hosting
    facilities located across the globe. Any damage to, or failure
    of, any element of these hosting facilities could result in
    interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and
    expose us to liability. Interruptions or failures in our service
    delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions
    with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could
    harm our ability to attract new customers. Our business would
    also be harmed if our customers believe that our SaaS offerings
    are unreliable. As we continue to offer more of our software
    products in a SaaS-based delivery model, all of these risks
    could be exacerbated.



Our SaaS offerings also involve the storage and transmission of
    customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches
    could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, which
    could lead to litigation and possible liability. Despite our
    precautions to protect against such breaches, our security
    measures could be breached at any time and could result in
    unauthorized third parties obtaining access to our, or our
    customers’ data. A security breach could also result in a
    loss of confidence in the security of our SaaS offerings, which
    could negatively impact our business.





Our
    financial condition and results of operations could be adversely
    affected if we do not effectively manage our
    liabilities.



As a result of the sale of our 0.75% convertible senior notes
    (“0.75% Notes”) and 1.00% convertible senior
    notes (“1.00% Notes”), collectively referred to
    as the Convertible Senior Notes in June 2006, and
    2.75% senior notes (“2.75% Notes”) and
    4.20% senior notes (“4.20% Notes”),
    collectively referred to as the Senior Notes in September 2010,
    we have notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of
    $2.7 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar
    years 2011, 2013, 2015 and 2020. In addition, we have entered
    into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of
    $1 billion. From time to time in the future, we may also
    incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available under our
    credit facility. Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt
    could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of
    certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations. Of our
    outstanding Convertible Senior Notes, $600 million matures
    and is repayable in June 2011 and $1.0 billion is due in
    June 2013. We may be required to use all or a substantial
    portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity
    unless we can obtain new financing.



Adverse
    global economic events may harm our business, operating results
    and financial condition.



Adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our
    business, operating results or financial condition under a
    number of different scenarios. During challenging economic times
    and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers
    may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or
    additional instances of existing products, upgrade their
    existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are
    often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase
    services. Customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the
    requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our
    products and services. An adverse macroeconomic environment
    could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers
    be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously
    purchased products and services. Accordingly, reserves for
    doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may
    increase. In addition, weakness in the market for end users of
    our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and
    resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or
    experience other financial difficulties. This would further
    increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays
    in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers.



In addition, the onset or continuation of adverse economic
    conditions may make it more difficult either to utilize our
    existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our
    operations, investing activities (including potential
    acquisitions) or financing activities. Specific economic trends,
    such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other
    computing devices, or softness in corporate information
    technology spending, could have an even more direct, and
    harmful, impact on our business.



Our
    international operations involve risks that could increase our
    expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require
    increased time and attention of our management.



We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers
    located outside of the U.S. and we have significant
    operations outside of the U.S., including engineering, sales,
    customer support, and production. We plan to expand our
    international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon
    the financial performance of our existing international
    operations as well as our identification of growth
    opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks
    in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including:



•Potential loss of proprietary information due to
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. laws or that may not
    be adequately enforced•Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls,
    including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that
    reduce the flexibility of our business operations•Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of
    encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the
    acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks
    for secure communications•Local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal
    standards and practices, including business practices that we
    are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations







•Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in
    international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the
    U.S.•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability
    such as higher interest rates in the U.S. and inflationary
    conditions that could reduce our customers’ ability to
    obtain financing for software products or that could make our
    products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing
    business in certain countries•Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current
    levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest
    sufficiently in our international operations•Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and
    difficulties in collecting accounts receivable•Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our
    international operations, including difficulties related to
    administering our stock plans in some foreign countries•Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our
    geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations•Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in
    Europe and in other periods in other countries•Costs and delays associated with developing software and
    providing support in multiple languages•Political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural
    disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities



A significant portion of our transactions outside of the
    U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly,
    our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to
    fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We expect to be affected
    by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future,
    especially if international sales continue to grow as a
    percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the
    United States continue to increase.



The level of corporate tax from sales to ournon-U.S. customersis generally less than the level of tax from sales to our
    U.S. customers. This benefit is contingent upon existing
    tax regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which
    our international operations are located. Future changes in
    domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect
    our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits.



Our
    products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer
    configurations, which could result in errors or product
    failures.



Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors,
    failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first
    introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are
    often installed and used in large-scale computing environments
    with different operating systems, system management software,
    and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause
    errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected
    errors, failures, or bugs in our products. Our customers’
    computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety
    of standard and non-standard configurations that make
    pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very
    difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us
    and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new
    products or releases until after commencement of commercial
    shipments. In the past, we have discovered software errors,
    failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after
    their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed
    or lost revenues as a result of these errors.



Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could
    result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product
    returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products,
    loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others.
    Many of our end-user customers use our products in applications
    that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater
    sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other,
    less critical, software products. In addition, if an actual or
    perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs
    in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of
    whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market
    perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed.
    Alleviating any of these problems could require significant
    expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause
    interruptions, delays, or cessation of our





product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or
    potential customers and could adversely affect our operating
    results.



If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key
    personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully,
    or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be
    unable to develop new and enhanced products and services,
    effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our
    revenues.



Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and
    retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance,
    and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key
    personnel areemployees-at-will,and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
    Competition for people with the specific skills that we require
    is significant. In order to attract and retain personnel in a
    competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a
    competitive compensation package, including cash and
    equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may
    from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or
    retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain
    required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number
    of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation
    plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of
    employee stock options and other forms of equity-based
    compensation as compensation expense. As a result, we may decide
    to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in
    our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are
    unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if
    we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels
    when required by market conditions, our business and operating
    results could be adversely affected.



From time to time, key personnel leave our company. While we
    strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss
    of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to
    our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of
    product releases, the successful implementation and completion
    of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures and our internal control over financial
    reporting, and the results of our operations. In addition,
    hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales
    and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause
    additional disruptions to our operations, and may be
    unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues.



From
    time to time we are a party to class action lawsuits, which
    often require significant management time and attention and
    result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not
    determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial
    condition, results of operations, and cash flows.



We have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we
    may be named in additional litigation. The expense of defending
    such litigation may be costly and divert management’s
    attention from theday-to-dayoperations of our business, which could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, an
    unfavorable outcome in such litigation could negatively impact
    our business, results of operations, and cash flows.



Third
    parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could
    cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from
    selling our products.



From time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the
    intellectual property rights of others, including claims
    regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. In addition,
    former employers of our former, current, or future employees may
    assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to
    us the confidential or proprietary information of these former
    employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result
    in costly litigation and distract management fromday-to-dayoperations. If we are not successful in defending such claims,
    we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or
    redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter
    into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy
    indemnification obligations that we have with some of our
    customers. We cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing
    arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.



In addition, we license and use software from third parties in
    our business. These third party software licenses may not
    continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all,
    and may expose us to additional liability. This





liability, or our inability to use any of this third party
    software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions
    in our business that could materially and adversely affect our
    operating results.



If we
    do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third
    parties from making unauthorized use of our products and
    technology, our financial results could be harmed.



day-to-day



Some
    of our products contain “open source” software, and
    any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these
    open source licenses could negatively affect our
    business.





Our
    software products and website may be subject to intentional
    disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future
    sales.



Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to
    prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing
    target of attacks specifically designed to impede the
    performance of our products and harm our reputation as a
    company. Similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt
    to penetrate our network security or the security of our website
    and misappropriate proprietary informationand/orcause
    interruptions of our services. Because the techniques used by
    such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change
    frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a
    target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. The
    theftand/orunauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other
    confidential business information as a result of such an event
    could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation,
    brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may
    assert claims against us related to resulting losses of
    confidential or proprietary information. Our





business could be subject to significant disruption, and we
    could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in
    the event of such incidents and claims.



Increased
    customer demands on our technical support services may adversely
    affect our relationships with our customers and our financial
    results.



We offer technical support services with many of our products.
    We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate
    short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We
    also may be unable to modify the format of our support services
    to compete with changes in support services provided by
    competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers.
    Further customer demand for these services, without
    corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely
    affect our operating results.



We have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide
    consumer support functions to third party service providers. If
    these companies experience financial difficulties, do not
    maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy
    our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient
    level under these contracts, the level of support services to
    our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could
    materially harm our relationships with these customers.



Accounting
    charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial
    results.



Our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to
    be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other
    accounting charges, including:



•Amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product
    rights•Impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets•Stock-based compensation expense•Restructuring charges•Loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets
    held for sale



For example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill
    impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a
    significant net loss for the year. Goodwill is evaluated
    annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal
    year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as
    we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and
    our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and
    assumptions made by our management. Our assessment of any
    impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair
    value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of
    that reporting unit. Our determination of fair value relies on
    management’s assumptions of our future revenues, operating
    costs, and other relevant factors. If management’s
    estimates of future operating results change, or if there are
    changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate
    applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair
    value of our reporting units could change significantly, which
    could result in a goodwill impairment charge. In addition, we
    evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible
    assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate
    that the value of these assets might be impaired. If we
    determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an
    impairment charge against the value of these assets.



The foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred
    in connection with or as a result of other business
    acquisitions. The price of our common stock could decline to the
    extent that our financial results are materially affected by the
    foregoing accounting charges.



Our
    effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income
    tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income
    (loss).



Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:



•Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income
    before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate
    that have differing statutory tax rates







•Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple
    jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of
    certain tax rulings•The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods•Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place



The price of our common stock could decline if our financial
    results are materially affected by an adverse change in our
    effective tax rate.



We report our results of operations based on our determination
    of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions
    in which we operate. From time to time, we receive notices that
    a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction has determined that
    we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such
    authority. We are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes
    disputes with these tax authorities. We are engaged in disputes
    of this nature at this time. If the ultimate determination of
    our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in
    excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for,
    our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could
    be adversely affected.



Fluctuations
    in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of
    our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in
    the future.



Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and
    are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number
    of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which
    could adversely affect our operations and operating results. If
    our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future
    financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively
    affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may
    make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or
    pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our
    operating results for prior periods may not be effective
    predictors of our future performance.



Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our
    business, and the markets for our products may cause our
    quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including:



•Reduced demand for any of our products•Entry of new competition into our markets•Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of
    products•Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced
    versions of our products•Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates•The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms
    and viruses)•Our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases
    near the end of each quarter•Enterprise customers’ tendency to negotiate site licenses
    near the end of each quarter•Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers•Movement in interest rates•The rate of adoption of new product technologies and new
    releases of operating systems•Weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry
    conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate
    that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our
    products and services•Political and military instability, which could slow spending
    within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise
    adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate
    effectively







•Budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by
    corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending
    objectives•Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused
    by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural
    disasters affecting our headquarters located in Silicon Valley,
    California, an area known for seismic activity, or our other
    locations worldwide•Acts of war or terrorism•Intentional disruptions by third parties•Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic



Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of
    our common stock to fluctuate significantly.



Our
    stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose
    the value of your investment.



The market price of our common stock has experienced significant
    fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the
    future, and as a result you could lose the value of your
    investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected
    by a number of factors, including:



•Announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and
    earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with
    our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or
    securities analysts•Announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail
    to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the
    expectations of our investors or securities analysts•Rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our
    competitors’ operations, management, organization,
    financial condition, or financial statements•Changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors,
    or securities analysts•Accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment
    of goodwill•Announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or
    by our competitors•Announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors,
    or our customers•Gain or loss of a significant customer•Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies•Acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or
    emergency situations•Economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic
    slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate



The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of
    technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme
    price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue
    to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for
    reasons unrelated to our business or operating results.



