Item 1A.Risk
    Factors



A description of the risk factors associated with our business
    is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive and you should
    carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before
    investing in our common stock.



Adverse
    global economic events may harm our business, operating results
    and financial condition.



Adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our
    business, operating results or financial condition under a
    number of different scenarios. During challenging economic times
    and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers
    may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or
    additional instances of existing products, upgrade their
    existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are
    often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase
    services. Customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the
    requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our
    products and services. An adverse macroeconomic environment
    could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers
    be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously
    purchased products and services. Accordingly, reserves for
    doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may
    increase. In addition, weakness in the market for end users of
    our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and
    resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or
    experience other financial difficulties. This would further
    increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays
    in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers.



In addition, financial institution difficulties may make it more
    difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or
    otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing
    activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing
    activities. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the
    demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or
    softness in corporate information technology spending, could
    have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business.





Fluctuations
    in demand for our products and services are driven by many
    factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could
    adversely affect our financial results.



We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and
    services due to a variety of factors, including general economic
    conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological
    change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and
    budget constraints of our current and potential customers,
    levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to IT
    systems, and other factors. While such factors may, in some
    periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also
    negatively impact our product sales. If demand for our products
    declines because of general economic conditions or for other
    reasons, our revenues and gross margin could be adversely
    affected.



If we
    are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services
    that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable
    to continually improve the performance, features, and
    reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our
    business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business
    and operating results could be adversely affected.



Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the
    rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or
    introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a
    timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and will continue to
    incur, significant research and development expenses as we
    strive to remain competitive. New product development and
    introduction involves a significant commitment of time and
    resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges
    including:



•Managing the length of the development cycle for new products
    and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than
    we originally expected•Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to
    technological developments by our competitors and customers•Extending the operation of our products and services to new and
    evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products,
    such as netbooks•Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited
    experience•Managing new product and service strategies, including
    integrating our various security and storage technologies,
    management solutions, customer service, and support into unified
    enterprise security and storage solutions•Incorporating acquired products and technologies•Addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship
    new or acquired products•Developing or expanding efficient sales channels•Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access
    from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to
    enable the development and deployment of interoperable products,
    including source code licenses for certain products with deep
    technical integration into operating systems



In addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace
    with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted.
    In connection with our enterprise software offerings, we license
    our applications on a variety of bases, such as per server, per
    processor, or based on performance criteria such as per amount
    of data processed or stored. If enterprises continue to migrate
    towards solutions, such as virtualization, which allow
    enterprises to run multiple applications and operating systems
    on a single server and thereby reduce the number of servers they
    are required to own and operate, we may experience lower license
    revenues unless we are able to successfully change our
    enterprise licensing model or sell additional software to take
    into account the impact of these new solutions.



If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges,
    or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not
    technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance,
    our business and operating results could be adversely affected.





We
    operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors
    may gain market share in the markets for our products that could
    adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to
    decline.



We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate
    or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new
    competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our
    competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop
    in revenue that could adversely affect our business and
    operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain a
    successful research and development effort to develop new
    products and services and enhance existing products and
    services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or
    product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to
    competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological
    changes and changes in the ways that our information is
    accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer
    markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors
    or to changing technological and customer demands, we could
    experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our
    financial results.



Our traditional competitors include independent software vendors
    that offer software products that directly compete with our
    product offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors
    directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with
    them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the
    product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer
    hardware OEMs and ISPs. Our competitors could gain market share
    from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products
    with the products of our competitors or if they more actively
    promote our competitors’ products than our products. In
    addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with
    theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or
    other vendors’ software or may limit our access to standard
    product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products
    for their platform.



We face growing competition from network equipment and computer
    hardware manufacturers and large operating system providers.
    These firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into
    their products data protection and storage and server management
    software that competes at some levels with our product
    offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected
    to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality
    incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our
    products.



Security protection is also offered by some of our competitors
    at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is bundled for
    free. Some companies offer the lower-priced or free security
    products within their computer hardware or software products
    that are inferior to our products. Our competitive position
    could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers
    perceive these security products as replacing the need for more
    effective, full featured products such as those that we provide.
    The expansion of these competitive trends could have a
    significant negative impact on our sales and financial results.



Another growing industry trend is the SaaS business model, where
    software vendors develop and host their applications for use by
    customers over the Internet. This allows enterprises to obtain
    the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated
    software without the associated complexity or high initialset-upand
    operational costs. Advances in the SaaS business model could
    enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the
    success of our traditional software licensing models. We are
    offering our own SaaS offerings, including those related to our
    fiscal 2009 acquisition of Message Labs, and we continue to
    incorporate these offerings into our licensing model. However,
    we may not be able to successfully incorporate our SaaS
    offerings into our current licensing models. Our inability to
    successfully develop and market new and existing SaaS product
    offerings could cause us to lose business to competitors.



Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical,
    sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently
    may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their
    products instead of ours. We also face competition from many
    smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the
    markets in which we compete.





If we
    fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively
    or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to
    their customers, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.



We sell our products to customers around the world through
    multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. Sales through
    these different channels involve distinct risks, including the
    following:



Direct Sales.A significant portion of our
    revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our
    direct sales force to end-users. Special risks associated with
    this sales channel include:



•Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts•Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales
    force•Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to
    become productive, including regular updates to cover new and
    revised products



Indirect Sales Channels.A significant portion
    of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels,
    including distributors that sell our products to end-users and
    other resellers. This channel involves a number of risks,
    including:



•Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products
    to end-users•Our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers•Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally
    nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause•Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute
    competing products and may, from time to time, place greater
    emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing,
    promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors•Recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased
    their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software
    providers



OEM Sales Channels.A significant portion of
    our revenues is derived from sales through our OEM partners that
    incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with,
    their products. Our reliance on this sales channel involves many
    risks, including:



•Our lack of control over the shipping dates or volume of systems
    shipped•Our OEM partners are generally not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers•Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements
    with us and new terms may be less favorable due, among other
    things, to an increasingly competitive relationship with certain
    partners•Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general
    economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and
    other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales•The development work that we must generally undertake under our
    agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest
    significant resources and incur significant costs with little or
    no associated revenues•The time and expense required for the sales and marketing
    organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our
    products may make it more difficult to introduce those products
    to the market•Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own
    products and market and distribute products of our competitors,
    which could reduce our sales•In many cases we must incur up-front costs to access the OEM
    channel, particularly in the consumer market, and we may not
    recoup those up-front costs if customers do not ultimately
    activate and purchase our products







If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels
    successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or
    otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce
    our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our
    competitive position. Some of our distribution partners have
    experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our
    partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of
    general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners
    may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced
    sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect
    our operating results. In addition, reliance on multiple
    channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability
    in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable
    to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse
    operating results in future periods.



We
    have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that
    give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect
    our future financial results.



We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the
    future, other businesses, business units, and technologies.
    Acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and
    challenges, including:



•Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of
    acquired business operations, workforce, products, and
    technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee
    base, product lines, and technology•Diversion of management time and attention from our existing
    business and other business opportunities•Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated
    with the termination or replacement of those employees•Assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired
    business, including litigation related to the acquired business•The addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased
    expenses and working capital requirements•Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders•Increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act•Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related
    expenses, write-off of in-process research and development,
    impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and
    stock-based compensation expense, such as the $7.4 billion
    goodwill write-down we recorded during fiscal 2009



Integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be
    a complex, time consuming, and expensive process, and can impact
    the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting.



If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we
    may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or
    suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee.
    To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our
    technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and
    manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must
    effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired
    business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various
    interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no
    or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have
    stronger market positions.



Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability
    to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired
    businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of
    acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of high
    technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be
    given that our previous or future acquisitions will be
    successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating
    results, or financial condition.



We
    have not historically maintained substantial levels of
    indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of
    operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively
    manage our liabilities.



In June 2006, we sold $2.1 billion in aggregate principal
    amount of convertible senior notes. As a result of the sale of
    the notes, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term
    debt than we maintained prior to that sale. In addition, we have
    entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of
    $1 billion. As of April 2, 2010, we had no borrowings
    under our credit facility. From time to time in the future, we
    may also incur indebtedness in addition





to the amount available under our credit facility. Our
    maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect
    our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate
    opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition
    and results of operations. Of our outstanding convertible notes,
    $1.1 billion matures and is repayable in June 2011 and the
    balance is due in June 2013. We may be required to use all or a
    substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on
    maturity unless we can obtain new financing.



Our
    international operations involve risks that could increase our
    expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require
    increased time and attention of our management.



We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers
    located outside of the U.S. and we have significant
    operations outside of the U.S., including engineering, sales,
    customer support, and production. We plan to expand our
    international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon
    the financial performance of our existing international
    operations as well as our identification of growth
    opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks
    in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including:





•Potential loss of proprietary information due to
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. laws or may not be
    adequately enforced



•Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls,
    including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that
    reduce the flexibility of our business operations



•Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of
    encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the
    acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks
    for secure communications



•Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in
    international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the
    U.S.



•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability
    such as higher interest rates in the U.S. and inflation
    that could reduce our customers’ ability to obtain
    financing for software products or that could make our products
    more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in
    certain countries



•Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current
    levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest
    sufficiently in our international operations



•Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and
    difficulties in collecting accounts receivable



•Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our
    international operations, including difficulties related to
    administering our stock plans in some foreign countries



•Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our
    geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations



•Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in
    Europe and in other periods in other countries



•Reduced sales due to the failure to obtain any required export
    approval of our technologies, particularly our encryption
    technologies



•Costs and delays associated with developing software and
    providing support in multiple languages



•Political unrest, war, or terrorism, particularly in areas in
    which we have facilities



A significant portion of our transactions outside of the
    U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly,
    our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to
    fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We expect to be affected
    by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future,
    especially if international sales continue to grow as a
    percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the
    United States continue to increase.



The level of corporate tax from sales to ournon-U.S. customersis less than the level of tax from sales to our
    U.S. customers. This benefit is contingent upon existing
    tax regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which
    our international operations are located. Future changes in
    domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect
    our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits.





Our
    products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer
    configurations, which could result in errors or product
    failures.



Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors,
    failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first
    introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are
    often installed and used in large-scale computing environments
    with different operating systems, system management software,
    and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause
    errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected
    errors, failures, or bugs in our products. Our customers’
    computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety
    of standard and non-standard configurations that make
    pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very
    difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us
    and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new
    products or releases until after commencement of commercial
    shipments. In the past, we have discovered software errors,
    failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after
    their introduction and, in some cases, may have experienced
    delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.



Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could
    result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product
    returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products,
    loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others.
    Many of our end-user customers use our products in applications
    that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater
    sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other,
    less critical, software products. In addition, if an actual or
    perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs
    in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of
    whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market
    perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed.
    Alleviating any of these problems could require significant
    expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause
    interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing,
    which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and
    could adversely affect our operating results.



If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key
    personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully,
    or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be
    unable to develop new and enhanced products and services,
    effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our
    revenues.



Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and
    retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance,
    and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key
    personnel areemployees-at-will,and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
    Competition for people with the specific skills that we require
    is significant. In order to attract and retain personnel in a
    competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a
    competitive compensation package, including cash and
    equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may
    from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or
    retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain
    required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number
    of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation
    plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of
    employee stock options and other forms of equity-based
    compensation as compensation expense. As a result, we may decide
    to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in
    our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are
    unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if
    we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels
    when required by market conditions, our business and operating
    results could be adversely affected.



From time to time, key personnel leave our company. While we
    strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss
    of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to
    our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of
    product releases, the successful implementation and completion
    of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures and our internal control over financial
    reporting, and the results of our operations. In addition,
    hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales
    and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause
    additional disruptions to our operations, and may be
    unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues.





From
    time to time we are a party to class action lawsuits, which
    often require significant management time and attention and
    result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not
    determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial
    condition, results of operations, and cash flows.



We have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we
    may be named in additional litigation. The expense of defending
    such litigation may be costly and divert management’s
    attention from theday-to-dayoperations of our business, which could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, an
    unfavorable outcome in such litigation could negatively impact
    our business, results of operations, and cash flows.



Third
    parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could
    cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from
    selling our products.



From time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the
    intellectual property rights of others, including claims
    regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. In addition,
    former employers of our former, current, or future employees may
    assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to
    us the confidential or proprietary information of these former
    employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result
    in costly litigation and distract management fromday-to-dayoperations. If we are not successful in defending such claims,
    we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or
    redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter
    into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy
    indemnification obligations that we have with some of our
    customers. We cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing
    arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.



In addition, we license and use software from third parties in
    our business. These third party software licenses may not
    continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all,
    and may expose us to additional liability. This liability, or
    our inability to use any of this third party software, could
    result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business
    that could materially and adversely affect our operating results.



If we
    do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third
    parties from making unauthorized use of our products and
    technology, our financial results could be harmed.



day-to-day



Some
    of our products contain “open source” software, and
    any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these
    open source licenses could negatively affect our
    business.



Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed
    by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open
    source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the
    GNU General Public License (“GPL”), GNU Lesser General
    Public License (“LGPL”), the Mozilla Public License,
    the BSD License, and the Apache





License. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we
    make available source code for modifications or derivative works
    we create based upon the open source software, and that we
    license such modifications or derivative works under the terms
    of a particular open source license or other license granting
    third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of
    certain open source licenses, we could be required to release
    the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our
    proprietary software with open source software in a certain
    manner. In addition to risks related to license requirements,
    usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use
    of third party commercial software, as open source licensors
    generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the
    software. We have established processes to help alleviate these
    risks, including a review process for screening requests from
    our development organizations for the use of open source, but we
    cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval
    prior to use in our products. In addition, many of the risks
    associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and
    could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.



Our
    software products and website may be subject to intentional
    disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future
    sales.



Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to
    prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing
    target of attacks specifically designed to impede the
    performance of our products and harm our reputation as a
    company. Similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt
    to penetrate our network security or the security of our website
    and misappropriate proprietary informationand/orcause
    interruptions of our services. Because the techniques used by
    such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change
    frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a
    target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. The
    theftand/orunauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other
    confidential business information as a result of such an event
    could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation,
    brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may
    assert claims against us related to resulting losses of
    confidential or proprietary information. Our business could be
    subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary
    and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such
    incidents and claims.



Increased
    customer demands on our technical support services may adversely
    affect our relationships with our customers and our financial
    results.



We offer technical support services with many of our products.
    We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate
    short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We
    also may be unable to modify the format of our support services
    to compete with changes in support services provided by
    competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers.
    Further customer demand for these services, without
    corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely
    affect our operating results.



We have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide
    consumer support functions to third party service providers. If
    these companies experience financial difficulties, do not
    maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy
    our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient
    level under these contracts, the level of support services to
    our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could
    materially harm our relationships with these customers.



Accounting
    charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial
    results.



Our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to
    be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other
    accounting charges, including:



•Amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product
    rights•Impairment of goodwill•Stock-based compensation expense•Restructuring charges•Impairment of long-lived assets•Loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets
    held for sale







For example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill
    impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a
    significant net loss for the year. Goodwill is evaluated
    annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal
    year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as
    we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and
    our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and
    assumptions made by our management. Our assessment of any
    impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair
    value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of
    that reporting unit. Our determination of fair value relies on
    management’s assumptions of our future revenues, operating
    costs, and other relevant factors. If management’s
    estimates of future operating results change, or if there are
    changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate
    applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair
    value of our reporting units could change significantly, which
    could result in a goodwill impairment charge. In addition, we
    evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible
    assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate
    that the value of these assets might be impaired. If we
    determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an
    impairment charge against the value of these assets.



The foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred
    in connection with or as a result of other business
    acquisitions. The price of our common stock could decline to the
    extent that our financial results are materially affected by the
    foregoing accounting charges.



Our
    effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income
    tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income
    (loss).



Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:



•Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income
    before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate
    that have differing statutory tax rates•Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple
    jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of
    certain tax rulings•The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods•Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place.



The price of our common stock could decline if our financial
    results are materially affected by an adverse change in our
    effective tax rate.



We report our results of operations based on our determinations
    of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in
    which we operate. From time to time, we receive notices that a
    tax authority in a particular jurisdiction in which we are
    subject to taxes has determined that we owe a greater amount of
    tax than we have reported to such authority. We are regularly
    engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax
    authorities. We are engaged in disputes of this nature at this
    time. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of
    these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax
    provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating
    results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely
    affected.



Fluctuations
    in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of
    our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in
    the future.



Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and
    are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number
    of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which
    could adversely affect our operations and operating results. If
    our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future
    financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively
    affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may
    make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or
    pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our
    operating results for prior periods may not be effective
    predictors of our future performance.





Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our
    business, and the markets for our products may cause our
    quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including:





•Reduced demand for any of our products



•Entry of new competition into our markets



•Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of
    products



•Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced
    versions of our products



•Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates



•The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms
    and viruses)



•Our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases
    near the end of each quarter



•Enterprise customers’ tendency to negotiate site licenses
    near the end of each quarter



•Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers



•Movement in interest rates



•The rate of adoption of new product technologies and new
    releases of operating systems



•Weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry
    conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate
    that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our
    products and services



•Political and military instability, which could slow spending
    within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise
    adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate
    effectively



•Budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by
    corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending
    objectives



•Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused
    by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural
    disasters affecting our headquarters located in Silicon Valley,
    California, an area known for seismic activity, or our other
    locations worldwide



•Acts of war or terrorism



•Intentional disruptions by third parties



•Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic



Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of
    our common stock to fluctuate significantly.



Our
    stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose
    the value of your investment.



The market price of our common stock has experienced significant
    fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the
    future, and as a result you could lose the value of your
    investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected
    by a number of factors, including:



•Announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and
    earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with
    our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or
    securities analysts•Announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail
    to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the
    expectations of our investors or securities analysts•Rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our
    competitors’ operations, management, organization,
    financial condition, or financial statements•Changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors,
    or securities analysts•Accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment
    of goodwill•Announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or
    by our competitors







•Announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors,
    or our customers•Gain or loss of a significant customer•Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies•Acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or
    emergency situations•Economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic
    slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate



The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of
    technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme
    price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue
    to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for
    reasons unrelated to our business or operating results.



