ITEM 1. BUSINESS



OVERVIEW



Founded in 1994, Mid-America Apartment
Communities, Inc. is a Memphis, Tennessee-based self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, that
focuses on acquiring, owning and operating apartment communities in the Sunbelt region of the United States. As of December 31,
2011, we owned 100% of 160 properties representing 46,872 apartment units. Three properties include retail components with approximately
93,000 square feet of gross leasable area. As of December 31, 2011, we also had 33.33% ownership interests in Mid-America Multifamily
Fund I, LLC, or Fund I, and Mid-America Multifamily Fund II, LLC, or Fund II, which owned two properties containing 626 apartment
units and five properties containing 1,635 apartment units, respectively. These apartment communities were located across 13 states.



Our business is conducted principally through
Mid-America Apartments, L.P., which we refer to as our operating partnership. We are the sole general partner of the operating
partnership, holding 36,602,619 common units of partnership interest, or common units, comprising a 95.0% general partnership interest
in the operating partnership as of December 31, 2011. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K to “we,” “us,” “our,” “the company,” or “MAA” refer collectively
to Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. and its subsidiaries.



Our corporate offices are located at 6584 Poplar
Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38138 and our telephone number is (901) 682-6600. As of December 31, 2011, we had 1,399 full time employees
and 67 part time employees.










FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS



As of December 31, 2011, we owned or had an
ownership interest in 167 multifamily apartment communities in 13 different states from which we derived all significant sources
of earnings and operating cash flows. Senior management evaluates performance and determines resource allocations by reviewing
apartment communities individually and in the following reportable operating segments:



·Large market same store communities are generally communities in markets with a population of
at least 1 million and at least 1% of the total public multifamily REIT units that we have owned and that have been stabilized
for at least a full 12 months and have not been classified as held for sale. Communities are considered stabilized after achieving
and maintaining at least 90% occupancy for 90 days.



·Secondary market same store communities are generally communities in markets with populations
of more than 1 million but less than 1% of the total public multifamily REIT units or markets with populations of less than 1 million
that we have owned and that have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months and have not been classified as held for sale. Communities
are considered stabilized after achieving and maintaining at least 90% occupancy for 90 days.



·Non same store communities and other includes recent acquisitions, communities in development
or lease-up and communities that have been classified as held for sale. Also included in non same store communities are non multifamily
activities which represent less than 1% of our portfolio. .



On the first day
of each calendar year, we determine the composition of our same store operating segments for that year, which allows us to evaluate
full period-over-period operating comparisons.We utilize net operating income, or NOI, in evaluating the performance. Total
NOI represents total property revenues less total property operating expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization, for all
properties held during the period regardless of their status as held for sale. We believe NOI is a helpful tool in evaluating the
operating performance of our segments because it measures the core operations of property performance by excluding corporate level
expenses and other items not related to property operating performance.



A summary of segment operating results for 2011,
2010 and 2009 is included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
Note 13. Additionally, segment operating performance for such years is discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



BUSINESS OBJECTIVES



Our primary business objectives are to protect
and grow existing property values, to maintain a stable and increasing cash flow that will fund our dividend through all parts
of the real estate investment cycle, and to create new shareholder value by growing in a disciplined manner. To achieve these objectives,
we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies:












·effectively and efficiently operate our existing properties with an intense property and asset management focus and a decentralized
structure;

·when accretive to long-term shareholder value, acquire or develop additional high-quality properties throughout the Sunbelt
region of the United States;

·selectively dispose of properties that no longer meet our ownership guidelines;

·develop, renovate and reposition existing properties;

·diversify investment capital across both large and secondary markets to achieve a growing and less volatile operating performance
profile to better support dividend funding across the full real estate and economic market cycle;

·enter into joint ventures to acquire and reposition properties; and

·actively manage our capital structure.

OPERATION STRATEGY



Our goal is to maximize our return on investment
collectively and in each apartment community by increasing revenues, tightly controlling operating expenses, maintaining high occupancy
levels and reinvesting as appropriate. The steps taken to meet these objectives include:



·diversifying portfolio investments across both large and secondary markets;

·providing management information and improved customer services through technology innovations;

·utilizing systems to enhance property managers’ ability to optimize revenue by adjusting rents in response to local market
conditions and individual unit amenities;

·developing new ancillary income programs aimed at offering new services to residents, including, among others, cable and internet
access, on which we generate revenue;

·implementing programs to control expenses through investment in cost-saving initiatives, including measuring and passing on
to residents the cost of various expenses, including water and other utility costs;

·analyzing individual asset productivity performances to identify best practices and improvement areas;

·proactively maintaining the physical condition of each property through ongoing capital investments;

·improving the “curb appeal” of the apartment communities through extensive landscaping and exterior improvements,
and repositioning apartment communities from time-to-time to maintain market leadership positions;

·aggressively managing lease expirations to align with peak leasing traffic patterns and to maximize productivity of property
staffing;

·allocating additional capital, including capital for selective interior and exterior improvements, where the investment will
generate the highest returns;

·compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock ownership programs;

·maintaining a hands-on management style and “flat” organizational structure that emphasizes senior management's
continued close contact with the market and employees;

·selling or exchanging underperforming assets;

·issuing or repurchasing shares of common or preferred stock when cost of capital and asset values permit;

·acquiring and from time to time developing properties when expected returns exceed our investment hurdle rate; and

·maintaining disciplined investment and capital allocation practices.










Decentralized Operational Structure



We operate in a decentralized
manner. We believe that our decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge, provides greater personal
accountability than a centralized structure and is beneficial in the acquisition and redevelopment processes. To support this decentralized
operational structure, senior and executive management, along with various asset management functions, are proactively involved
in supporting and reviewing property management through extensive reporting processes and frequent on-site visitations. To maximize
the amount of information shared between senior and executive management and the properties on a real time basis, we utilize a
web-based property management system. The system contains property and accounting modules which allow for operating efficiencies,
continued expense control, provide for various expanded revenue management practices, and improve the support provided to on-site
property operations. Weuse a “yield management” pricing program that helps our property managers optimize rental
revenues, and we also utilize purchase order and accounts payable software to provide improved controls and management information.
We have also implemented revised utility billing processes, rolled out new web-sites enabling on-line lease applications and improved
web-based marketing programs.



Intensive Property and Asset Management
Focus



We have traditionally
emphasized property management, and over the past several years, we have deepened our asset management functions to provide additional
support in marketing, training, ancillary income and revenue management. A majority of our property managers are Certified Apartment
Managers, a designation established by the National Apartment Association, which provides training for on-site manager professionals.
We also provide our ownin-house leadership development program consisting of an 18-month, three-module program followed
by two comprehensive case studies, which was developed with the assistance of U.S. Learning, Inc.



ACQUISITION AND JOINT VENTURE STRATEGY



One of our growth strategies is to acquire and
redevelop apartment communities for our wholly-owned portfolio that are diversified over both large and secondary markets throughout
the Sunbelt region of the United States and that meet our investment criteria of expected leveraged returns exceeding our investment
hurdle rate, generally defined as our estimated cost of equity plus 20%. We have extensive experience and research-based skills
in the acquisition and repositioning of multifamily communities. In addition, we will acquire newly built and developed communities
that can be purchased on a favorable pricing basis. We will continue to evaluate opportunities that arise, and will utilize this
strategy to increase the number of apartment communities in strong and growing markets.



Another of our growth strategies is to co-invest
with partners in joint venture opportunities to the extent we believe that a joint venture will enable us to obtain a higher return
on our investment through management and other fees, which leverage our skills in acquiring, repositioning, redeveloping and managing
multifamily investments. In addition, the joint venture investment strategy can provide a platform for creating more capital diversification
and lower investment risk for us. At present, we have focused our joint venture investment strategy on properties seven years old
or older, with younger acquisitions becoming part of the wholly-owned portfolio.










As of December 31, 2011, we were partners in
two joint ventures: Mid-America Multifamily Fund I, LLC, or Fund I, and Mid-America Multifamily Fund II, LLC, or Fund II.



The following apartment communities were acquired
during the year ended December 31, 2011:





NumberPropertyLocationof UnitsDate Purchased100% Owned Properties:Village Oaks(1)Temple Terrace (Tampa), FL2VariousAlamo RanchSan Antonio, TX340January 12, 2011Magnolia ParkeGainesville, FL204April 20, 2011Atlantic CrossingJacksonville, FL200April 29, 2011Hamptons at Hunton ParkGlen Allen (Richmond), VA300June 1, 2011Avala at Savannah QuartersPooler (Savannah), GA256June 13, 2011Tattersall at Tapestry ParkJacksonville, FL279June 23, 2011Birchall at Ross BridgeHoover (Birmingham), AL240August 25, 2011Legends at Lowe's FarmMansfield (Dallas), TX456September 19, 2011Aventura at Indian LakeHendersonville (Nashville), TN300October 18, 2011Palisades at Chenal ValleyChenal Valley (Little Rock), AR248November 30, 2011Seasons at Celebrate VirginiaFredericksburg, VA232December 8, 20113,05733.33% Owned Properties Through Joint Ventures:The Verandas at SouthWoodTallahassee, FL300March 29, 2011





(1)On August 27, 2008, we purchased 215 units of the 234-unit Village Oaks apartments located in Temple Terrace, Florida, a suburb
of Tampa. The remaining 19 units had previously been sold as condominiums and it is our intent to acquire these units if and when
they become available, and operate them as apartment rentals with the rest of the community. During the remainder of 2008, we acquired
four of the remaining 19 units and in 2009 we acquired an additional seven units and in 2010 we acquired an additional 3 units.





DISPOSITION STRATEGY



At 16 years average age, we have one of the
younger portfolios in the multifamily REIT sector, and strive to maintain a young portfolio of our assets in excellent condition,
believing that continuous capital replacement and maintenance will lead to higher long-run returns on investment. From time-to-time,
we dispose of mature assets, defined as those apartment communities that no longer meet our investment criteria and long-term strategic
objectives, to ensure that our portfolio consists primarily of high quality, well-located properties within our market area. Typically,
we select assets for disposition that do not meet our present investment criteria, including estimated future return on investment,
location, market, potential for growth and capital needs. From time-to-time we also may dispose of assets for which we receive
an offer meeting or exceeding our return on investment criteria even though those assets may not meet the disposition criteria
disclosed above. During 2011, we disposed of two properties totaling 534 units.
















DEVELOPMENT, RENOVATION, AND REPOSITIONING STRATEGY





Beginning in 2005, we began an initiative of
upgrading a significant number of our existing apartment communities in key markets across our portfolio. We focus on both interior
unit upgrades and shared exterior amenities above and beyond routine capital upkeep in markets that we believe continue to have
growth potential and can support the increased rent. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we renovated 3,118 units achieving
a combined 9.6% rent increase above the normal renewal rate.



CAPITAL STRUCTURE STRATEGY



We use a combination of debt and equity sources
to fund our portfolio of assets, focused on producing the overall lowest cost and most flexible capital structure. We focus on
improving the net present value of each share of our common stock by generating cash flows from our portfolio of investments above
the estimated total cost of debt and equity capital. We routinely make new investments when we believe it can add to value per
share. In the past, we have sold assets to fund share repurchases when, in management’s view, shareholder value would be
enhanced.



At December 31, 2011,
39% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings, including 36% for secured borrowings and 3% for unsecured borrowings.We currently intend to target our total debt to a range of approximately 45% to 55% of the undepreciated book value of our
assets, although our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels; however, our net-debt (total debt less excess cash on hand)
to undepreciated book value is limited to 60% by our debt covenants. We may issue new equity to maintain our debt within this target
range. As of December 31, 2011, our ratio of net-debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 46%. Our Board of Directors
can modify this policy at any time, which could allow us to become more highly leveraged but may decrease our ability to make distributions
to our shareholders.










We continuously review opportunities for lowering
our cost of capital, and increasing net present value per share. Recently we received a BBB credit rating from Fitch as part of
our strategy to access a broader financing market. This rating supported our issuance of $135 million in senior unsecured notes
and the opening of a $250 million unsecured credit facility. We evaluate opportunities to repurchase stock when we believe that
our stock price is below our net present value. We also look for opportunities where we can acquire or develop apartment communities,
selectively funded or partially funded by stock sales, when the investment return is projected to substantially exceed our cost
of capital. We will also opportunistically seek to lower our cost of capital through issuing, refinancing or redeeming preferred
stock as we did in 2010.



We have entered into
sales agreements withCantor Fitzgerald & Co., Raymond James & Associates, Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporatedto sell shares of our common stock, from time-to-time in at-the-market
offerings or negotiated transactions through controlled equity offering programs, or ATMs.



The following are the issuances of common stock
which have been made through these agreements through December 31, 2011:





NetNumber ofNetAverageShares SoldProceedsSales Price2006194,000$11,481,292$59.182007323,700$18,773,485$58.0020081,955,300$103,588,759$52.982009763,000$32,774,757$42.9620105,077,201$274,576,677$54.0820113,303,273$204,534,677$61.92Total11,616,474$645,729,647$55.59





We also have a direct stock purchase plan, which
allows for the optional cash purchase of common stock of at least $250, but not more than $5,000 in any given month, free of brokerage
commissions and charges. We, in our absolute discretion, may grant waivers to allow for optional cash payments in excess of $5,000.
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we issued a total of 495,645 shares through the optional cash purchase feature of our
direct stock purchase plan, resulting in net proceeds of $30.0 million.





SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM



In 1999, our Board of Directors approved
an increase in the number of shares of our common stock authorized to be repurchased to 4 million shares. As of December 31, 2011,
we had repurchased a total of approximately 1.86 million shares (8% of the shares of common stock and common units outstanding
as of the beginning of the repurchase program). From time-to-time, we intend to repurchase shares when we believe that shareholder
value is enhanced. Factors affecting this determination include, among others, the share price, financing agreements and rates
of return. No shares were repurchased from 2002 through 2011 under this plan.














COMPETITION



All of our apartment communities are located
in areas that include other apartment communities. Occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of competitive apartment
communities in a particular area. The owners of competing apartment communities may have greater resources than us, and the managers
of these apartment communities may have more experience than our management. Moreover, single-family rental housing, manufactured
housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities.



Apartment communities compete on the basis of
monthly rent, discounts and facilities offered, such as apartment size and amenities, and apartment community amenities, including
recreational facilities, resident services and physical property condition. We make capital improvements to both our apartment
communities and individual apartments on a regular basis in order to maintain a competitive position in each individual market.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



As part of the acquisition process, we obtain
environmental studies on all of our apartment communities from various outside environmental engineering firms. The purpose of
these studies is to identify potential sources of contamination at the apartment communities and to assess the status of environmental
regulatory compliance. These studies generally include historical reviews of the apartment communities, reviews of certain public
records, preliminary investigations of the sites and surrounding properties, inspection for the presence of asbestos,poly-chlorinated
biphenyls, orPCBs, and underground storage tanks and the preparation and issuance of written reports. Depending on the
results of these studies, more invasive procedures, such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, will be performed to investigate
potential sources of contamination. These studies must be satisfactorily completed before we take ownership of an acquisition community;
however, no assurance can be given that the studies identify all significant environmental problems.



Under various federal, state and local laws
and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous
or toxic substances on properties. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner caused or knew of
the presence of hazardous or toxic substances and whether the storage of such substances was in violation of a resident’s
lease. Furthermore, the cost of remediation and removal of such substances may be substantial, and the presence of such substances,
or the failure to promptly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell such real estate or
to borrow using such real estate as collateral.



We are aware of environmental concerns specifically
relating to potential issues resulting from mold in residential properties and have in place an active management and preventive
maintenance program that includes procedures specifically related to mold. We have established a policy requiring residents to
sign a mold addendum to lease. We also have a $5 million insurance policy that covers remediation and exposure to mold. Therefore,
we believe that our exposure to this issue is limited and controlled.



The environmental studies we received have not
revealed any material environmental liabilities. We are not aware of any existing conditions that would currently be considered
a material environmental liability. Nevertheless, it is possible that the studies do not reveal all environmental liabilities or
that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware. Moreover, no assurance can be given concerning future
laws, ordinances or regulations, or the potential introduction of hazardous or toxic substances by neighboring properties or residents.










We believe that our apartment communities are
in compliance in all material respects with all applicable federal, state and local ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous
or toxic substances and other environmental matters.



WEBSITE ACCESS TO REGISTRANT’S REPORTS



We file annual and periodic reports with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. All filings made by us with the SEC may be copied or read at the SEC’s Public Reference
Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling
the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC as we do. The website is http://www.sec.gov.



Additionally, a copy of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, along with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to the aforementioned
filings, are available on our website free of charge. The filings can be found on the For Investors page under SEC Filings. Our
website also contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the committees
of the Board of Directors. These items can be found on the For Investors page under Governance Documents. Our website address is
http://www.maac.com. Reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the
site and should not be considered part of this document. All of the aforementioned materials may also be obtained free of charge
by contacting the Investor Relations Department at MAA, 6584 Poplar Avenue, Memphis, TN 38138.



QUALIFICATION AS A REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT
TRUST



We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must continue to meet certain
tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived
primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than our net capital gain)
to our shareholders annually. As a qualified REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate
level on our net income to the extent we distribute such net income to our shareholders annually. Even if we continue to qualify
as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and our property. In 2011, we
paid total distributions of $2.51 per common share to our shareholders, which was above the 90% REIT distribution requirement.



RECENT DEVELOPMENTS



Dispositions



On January 12, 2012, we closed on the sale of
the 320-unit Kenwood Club at the Park apartment community located in Katy (Houston), Texas, resulting in a gain of approximately
$9.6 million.










On February 9, 2012, we closed on
the sale of the 276-unit Cedar Mill apartment community located in Memphis, Tennessee, resulting in no material gain or loss.



