ITEM 1. BUSINESS



OVERVIEW



Founded in 1994, Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. is a Memphis, Tennessee-based self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, that focuses on acquiring, owning and operating apartment communities in the Sunbelt region of the United States. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we owned 100% of160properties representing47,809apartment units.Fourproperties include retail components with approximately108,000square feet of gross leasable area. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we also had 33.33% ownership interests in Mid-America Multifamily Fund I, LLC, or Fund I, and Mid-America Multifamily Fund II, LLC, or Fund II, which ownedtwoproperties containing626apartment units andfourproperties containing1,156apartment units, respectively. These apartment communities were located across13states.



Our business is conducted principally through Mid-America Apartments, L.P., which we refer to as our Operating Partnership. We are the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, holding39,721,461common units of partnership interest, or common units, comprising a95.8%general partnership interest in the operating partnership as ofDecember 31, 2012. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “we,” “us,” “our,” “the company,” or “MAA” refer collectively to Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. and its subsidiaries.



Our corporate offices are located at 6584 Poplar Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38138 and our telephone number is (901) 682-6600. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had1,384full-time employees and62part-time employees.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS



As ofDecember 31, 2012, we owned or had an ownership interest in166multifamily apartment communities in13different states from which we derived all significant sources of earnings and operating cash flows. Senior management evaluates performance and determines resource allocations by reviewing apartment communities individually and in the following reportable operating segments:

•Large market same store communities are generally communities in markets with a population of at least 1 million and at least 1% of the total public multifamily REIT units that we have owned and that have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months and have not been classified as held for sale. Communities are considered stabilized after achieving and maintaining at least 90% occupancy for 90 days.

•Secondary market same store communities are generally communities in markets with populations of more than 1 million but less than 1% of the total public multifamily REIT units or markets with populations of less than 1 million that we have owned and that have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months and have not been classified as held for sale. Communities are considered stabilized after achieving and maintaining at least 90% occupancy for 90 days.

•Non same store communities and other includes recent acquisitions, communities in development or lease-up and communities that have been classified as held for sale. Also included in non same store communities are non multifamily activities which represent less than 1% of our portfolio.



On the first day of each calendar year, we determine the composition of our same store operating segments for that year, which allows us to evaluate full period-over-period operating comparisons. We utilize net operating income, or NOI, in evaluating the performance. Total NOI represents total property revenues less total property operating expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization, for all properties held during the period regardless of their status as held for sale. We believe NOI is a helpful tool in evaluating the operating performance of our segments because it measures the core operations of property performance by excluding corporate level expenses and other items not related to property operating performance.



A summary of segment operating results for2012,2011and2010is included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 13. Additionally, segment operating performance for such years is discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



BUSINESS OBJECTIVES



Our primary business objectives are to protect and grow existing property values, to maintain a stable and increasing cash flow that will fund our dividend through all parts of the real estate investment cycle, and to create new shareholder value










by growing in a disciplined manner. To achieve these objectives, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies:



•effectively and efficiently operate our existing properties with an intense property and asset management focus and a decentralized structure;

•when accretive to long-term shareholder value, acquire or develop additional high-quality properties throughout the Sunbelt region of the United States;

•selectively dispose of properties that no longer meet our ownership guidelines;

•develop, renovate and reposition existing properties;

•diversify investment capital across both large and secondary markets to achieve a growing and less volatile operating performance profile to better support dividend funding across the full real estate and economic market cycle;

•enter into joint ventures to acquire and reposition properties; and

•actively manage our capital structure.



OPERATION STRATEGY



Our goal is to generate our return on investment collectively and in each apartment community by increasing revenues, controlling operating expenses, maintaining high occupancy levels and reinvesting as appropriate. The steps taken to meet these objectives include:



•diversifying portfolio investments across both large and secondary markets;

•providing management information and improved customer services through technology innovations;

•utilizing systems to enhance property managers’ ability to optimize revenue by adjusting rents in response to local market conditions and individual unit amenities;

•developing new ancillary income programs aimed at offering new services to residents, including cable, on which we generate revenue;

•implementing programs to control expenses through investment in cost-saving initiatives, including measuring and passing on to residents the cost of various expenses, including water and other utility costs;

•analyzing individual asset productivity performances to identify best practices and improvement areas;

•proactively maintaining the physical condition of each property through ongoing capital investments;

•improving the “curb appeal” of the apartment communities through extensive landscaping and exterior improvements, and repositioning apartment communities from time-to-time to enhance or maintain market positions;

•aggressively managing lease expirations to align with peak leasing traffic patterns and to maximize productivity of property staffing;

•allocating additional capital, including capital for selective interior and exterior improvements;

•compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock ownership programs;

•maintaining a hands-on management style and “flat” organizational structure that emphasizes senior management's continued close contact with the market and employees;

•selling or exchanging underperforming assets;

•issuing or repurchasing shares of common or preferred stock when cost of capital and asset values permit;

•acquiring and selectively developing properties; and

•maintaining disciplined investment and capital allocation practices.



Decentralized Operational Structure



We operate in a decentralized manner. We believe that our decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge, provides greater personal accountability than a centralized structure and is beneficial in the acquisition and redevelopment processes. To support this decentralized operational structure, senior and executive management, along with various asset management functions, are proactively involved in supporting and reviewing property management through extensive reporting processes and frequent on-site visitations. To maximize the amount of information shared between senior and executive management and the properties on a real time basis, we utilize a web-based property management system. The system contains property and accounting modules that allow for operating efficiencies, continued expense control, provide for various expanded revenue management practices, and improve the support provided to on-site property operations. We use a “yield management” pricing program that helps our property managers optimize rental revenues, and we also utilize purchase order and accounts payable software to provide improved controls and management information. We have also implemented revised utility billing processes, rolled out new web-sites, including a new resident portal facilitating communication with residents and enabling on-line payments of rents and fees, on-line lease applications and improved web-based marketing programs.












Property and Asset Management Focus



We have traditionally emphasized property management, and over the past several years, we have deepened our asset management functions to provide additional support in marketing, training, ancillary income and revenue management. A majority of our property managers are Certified Apartment Managers, a designation established by the National Apartment Association, which provides training for on-site manager professionals. We also provide our own in-house leadership development program consisting of a three-module program followed by two comprehensive case studies, which was developed with the assistance of U.S. Learning, Inc.



ACQUISITION AND JOINT VENTURE STRATEGY



One of our growth strategies is to acquire and redevelop apartment communities for our wholly-owned portfolio that are diversified over both large and secondary markets throughout the Sunbelt region of the United States and that meet our investment criteria. We have extensive experience and research-based skills in the acquisition and repositioning of multifamily communities. In addition, we will acquire newly built and developed communities that can be purchased on a favorable pricing basis. We will continue to evaluate opportunities that arise, and will utilize this strategy to increase the number of apartment communities in strong and growing markets.



Another of our growth strategies is to co-invest with partners in joint venture opportunities to the extent we believe that a joint venture will enable us to obtain a higher return on our investment through management and other fees, which leverage our skills in acquiring, repositioning, redeveloping and managing multifamily investments. In addition, the joint venture investment strategy can provide a platform for creating more capital diversification and lower investment risk for us. At present, we have focused our joint venture investment strategy on properties seven years old or older, with younger acquisitions becoming part of the wholly-owned portfolio.



As ofDecember 31, 2012, for this strategy we were partners in three joint ventures: Mid-America Multifamily Fund I, LLC, or Fund I; Mid-America Multifamily Fund II, LLC, or Fund II; and Mid-America Multifamily Fund III, LLC, or Fund III.  These joint ventures did not acquire any properties during 2012.



The following apartment communities were acquired for our wholly-owned portfolio during the year endedDecember 31, 2012:



PropertyLocationNumberof UnitsDate Purchased100% Owned Properties:Adalay BayChesapeake, VA240April 2, 2012Legacy at Western OaksAustin, TX479April 5, 2012Allure in Buckhead VillageAtlanta, GA230May 10, 2012Allure at BrookwoodAtlanta, GA349July 23, 2012Retreat at Lake NonaOrlando, FL394August 20, 2012The Haven at BlancoSan Antonio, TX436August 30, 2012Market StationKansas City, MO323September 20, 2012Village Oaks(1)Temple Terrace (Tampa), FL1December 21, 20122,452



(1)On August 27, 2008, we purchased 215 units of the 234-unit Village Oaks apartments located in Temple Terrace, Florida, a suburb of Tampa. The remaining 19 units had previously been sold as condominiums, and it is our intent to acquire these units if and when they become available and operate them as apartment rentals with the rest of the community. During the remainder of 2008, we acquired four of the remaining 19 units.  We acquired an additional seven units in 2009, three units in 2010, and two units in 2011.




















DISPOSITION STRATEGY



At 15 years weighted average age (based on gross asset values), we believe that we have one of the younger portfolios in the multifamily REIT sector and strive to maintain a well-conditioned portfolio of young assets, believing that continuous capital replacement and maintenance will lead to higher long-run returns on investment. From time-to-time, we dispose of mature assets, defined as those apartment communities that no longer meet our investment criteria and long-term strategic objectives, to ensure that our portfolio consists primarily of high quality, well-located properties within our market area. Typically, we select assets for disposition that do not meet our present investment criteria, including estimated future return on investment, location, market, potential for growth and capital needs. From time-to-time we also may dispose of assets for which we receive an offer meeting or exceeding our return on investment criteria even though those assets may not meet the disposition criteria disclosed above. During2012, we disposed ofnineproperties totaling2,254units.



DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT STRATEGY



Periodically, we invest in limited expansion development projects through fee-based development agreements using fixed price or cost controlled construction contracts. These contracts can have variability to cover any project cost overruns that may occur. Some development agreements require that cost overruns are contractually shared with the developer up to a specified level, while other development agreements stipulate that cost overruns are the responsibility of the developer. In October 2010, we purchased land in Franklin (Nashville), Tennessee and entered into an agreement to develop a 428-unit apartment community on the site. Construction began in late 2010.  As of

December 31, 2012

, all 428 units have been completed and were 77% leased up. During 2011, we also began developing a 210-unit phase II to the 1225 South Church apartments in Charlotte, North Carolina that were purchased in December 2010. As of

December 31, 2012

, no units have been delivered for 1225 South Church. We purchased land in Little Rock, Arkansas during 2011 and entered into a development agreement to develop a 312-unit apartment community on the site. All


units for the Little Rock development have been completed and delivered and were 77% leased up as of

December 31, 2012

. During 2012, we purchased 10.6 acres of land and began construction on a new 270-unit community located in the Charleston, South Carolina metropolitan area. As of

December 31, 2012

, no units have been delivered for the land in Charleston, South Carolina. During 2012, we also purchased 2.0 acres of land and began construction on a new 294-unit community located in Jacksonville, Florida. As of

December 31, 2012

, no units have been delivered. While we seek opportunistic new development investments offering attractive long-term investment returns, we do not currently intend to maintain a dedicated development staff or to expand into development in a significant way. We expect our investment in new development will remain a smaller component of overall growth as compared to growth through acquiring existing properties.



Beginning in 2005, we began an initiative of upgrading a significant number of our existing apartment communities in key markets across our portfolio. We focus on both interior unit upgrades and shared exterior amenities above and beyond routine capital upkeep in markets that we believe continue to have growth potential and can support the increased rent. During the year endedDecember 31, 2012, we renovated3,236units at an average rental rate that we believe was approximately10%above the normal market rate increase.



CAPITAL STRUCTURE STRATEGY



We use a combination of debt and equity sources to fund our portfolio of assets, focused on producing low costs combined with a flexible capital structure. We focus on improving the net present value of our assets by generating cash flows from our portfolio of investments above the estimated total cost of debt and equity capital. We routinely make new investments when we believe it will be accretive to shareholder value. In the past, we have sold assets to fund share repurchases when, in management’s view, shareholder value would be enhanced.



AtDecember 31, 2012,37%of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings, including26%under our secured borrowings and11%under our unsecured credit facilities or unsecured senior notes. We currently intend to target our total debt to a range of approximately 43% to 48% of the undepreciated book value of our assets. Our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels and our Board of Directors can modify this policy at any time, which could allow us to become more highly leveraged. We may also issue new equity to maintain our debt within the target range. Covenants in our credit facilities limit our net-debt (total debt less cash on hand) to undepreciated book value to 60%.  As ofDecember 31, 2012, our ratio of net-debt to undepreciated book value was approximately44%.



We continuously review opportunities for lowering our cost of capital and increasing net present value per share. We havereceived an investment grade rating from all three major rating agencies.  These ratings support our plan to broaden our capital sources to include additional unsecured debt in order to take advantage of lower cost of capital in the public bond market. We evaluate opportunities to repurchase shares when we believe that our share price is below our net present value. We










also look for opportunities where we can acquire or develop apartment communities, selectively funded or partially funded by sales of equity securities, when appropriate opportunities arise. We will also opportunistically seek to lower our cost of capital through issuing, refinancing or redeeming preferred stock.



We have entered into sales agreements to sell shares of our common stock, from time-to-time in at-the-market offerings or negotiated transactions through controlled equity offering programs, or ATMs, most recently with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Raymond James & Associates, Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated. As ofDecember 31, 2012, there were578,015shares remaining under the ATM program.  AtDecember 31, 2012, we were nearing the end of these agreements so on February 7, 2013 we terminated these programs.  We anticipate entering into similar agreements in the near future.



The following are the issuances of common stock which have been made through these agreements throughDecember 31, 2012:





Number ofShares SoldNet         ProceedsNetAverageSales PriceGross     ProceedsGross               Average                Sales Price2006194,000$11,481,292$59.18$11,705,010$60.342007323,700$18,773,485$58.00$19,203,481$59.3220081,955,300$103,588,759$52.98$105,554,860$53.982009763,000$32,774,757$42.96$33,283,213$43.6220105,077,201$274,576,677$54.08$278,468,323$54.8520113,303,273$204,534,677$61.92$207,650,656$62.8620121,155,511$75,863,040$65.65$77,019,121$66.65Total12,771,985$721,592,687$56.50$732,884,664$57.38



We also have a direct stock purchase plan, which allows for the optional cash purchase of common stock of at least $250, but not more than $5,000 in any given month, free of brokerage commissions and charges. We, in our absolute discretion, may grant waivers to allow for optional cash payments in excess of $5,000. During the year endedDecember 31, 2012, we issued a total of729shares through the optional cash purchase feature of our direct stock purchase plan, resulting in net proceeds of$48,000.  On March 2, 2012, we closed on an underwritten public offering of1,955,000shares of common stock. UBS Investment Bank and Jeffries & Company, Inc. acted as joint bookrunning managers.  This transaction resulted in net proceeds of$120.1 million.  No such issuances occurred during 2011 or 2010.



SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM



In 1999, our Board of Directors approved an increase in the number of shares of our common stock authorized to be repurchased to 4 million shares. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had repurchased a total of approximately1.9 millionshares (8%of the shares of common stock and common units outstanding as of the beginning of the repurchase program). From time-to-time, we intend to repurchase shares when we believe that shareholder value is enhanced. Factors affecting this determination include, among others, the share price, financing agreements and rates of return. No shares were repurchased from 2002 through 2012 under this plan.



COMPETITION



All of our apartment communities are located in areas that include other apartment communities. Occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of competitive apartment communities in a particular area. The owners of competing apartment communities may have greater resources than us, and the managers of these apartment communities may have more experience than our management. Moreover, single-family rental housing, manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities.



Apartment communities compete on the basis of monthly rent, discounts and facilities offered, such as apartment size and amenities, and apartment community amenities, including recreational facilities, resident services and physical property condition. We make capital improvements to both our apartment communities and individual apartments on a regular basis in order to maintain a competitive position in each individual market.












ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



As part of the acquisition process, we obtain environmental studies on our apartment communities from various outside environmental engineering firms. The purpose of these studies is to identify potential sources of contamination at the apartment communities and to assess the status of environmental regulatory compliance. These studies generally include historical reviews of the apartment communities, reviews of certain public records, preliminary investigations of the sites and surrounding properties, inspection for the presence of asbestos, poly-chlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, and underground storage tanks and the preparation and issuance of written reports. Depending on the results of these studies, more invasive procedures, such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, will be performed to investigate potential sources of contamination. These studies must be satisfactorily completed before we take ownership of an acquisition community; however, no assurance can be given that the studies identify all significant environmental problems.



Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on properties. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner caused or knew of the presence of hazardous or toxic substances and whether the storage of such substances was in violation of a resident’s lease. Furthermore, the cost of remediation and removal of such substances may be substantial, and the presence of such substances, or the failure to promptly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell such real estate or to borrow using such real estate as collateral.



We are aware of environmental concerns specifically relating to potential issues resulting from mold in residential properties and have in place an active management and preventive maintenance program that includes procedures specifically related to mold. We have established a policy requiring residents to sign a mold addendum to lease. We also have a $5 million insurance policy that covers remediation and exposure to mold. Therefore, we believe that our exposure to this issue is mitigated appropriately.



The environmental studies we received have not revealed any material environmental liabilities. We are not aware of any existing conditions that would currently be considered a material environmental liability. Nevertheless, it is possible that the studies do not reveal all environmental liabilities or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware. Moreover, no assurance can be given concerning future laws, ordinances or regulations, or the potential introduction of hazardous or toxic substances by neighboring properties or residents.



We believe that our apartment communities are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable federal, state and local ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances and other environmental matters.



WEBSITE ACCESS TO REGISTRANT’S REPORTS



We file annual and periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All filings made by us with the SEC may be copied or read at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC as we do. The website is http://www.sec.gov.



Additionally, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, along with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to the aforementioned filings, are available on our website free of charge. The filings can be found on the "For Investors" page under "SEC Filings and Reports". Our website also contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the committees of the Board of Directors. These items can be found on the "For Investors" page under "Corporate Overview and Governance Documents". Our website address is http://www.maac.com. Reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the site and should not be considered part of this document. All of the aforementioned materials may also be obtained free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations Department, 6584 Poplar Avenue, Memphis, TN 38138.



QUALIFICATION AS A REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST (REIT)



We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than our net capital gain) to our shareholders annually. As a qualified REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income to the extent we distribute such net income to our shareholders annually. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to










certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and our property. In2012, we paid total distributions of$2.64per common share to our shareholders, which was above the 90% REIT distribution requirement.



RECENT DEVELOPMENTS



Acquisitions



On February 1, 2013, we closed on the purchase of the 310-unit Milstead Village apartment community located in Kennesaw (Atlanta), Georgia.  This property was previously a part of our Fund I Joint Venture.







