ITEM 1. BUSINESS



Overview



MAA is a multifamily focused, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT. We own, operate, acquire and selectively develop apartment communities primarily located in the Southeast and Southwest regions of the United States. As of December 31, 2016, activities include full ownership and operation of302multi-family properties, which includes commercial space at certain properties, and four additional commercial properties, along with partial ownership in one multifamily property . These properties are located in Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Washington, D.C.



As ofDecember 31, 2016, we maintained full or partial ownership in the following properties:



Multifamily:Consolidated PropertiesUnitsUnconsolidated PropertiesUnitsTotal PropertiesTotal Units30299,124126930399,393Commercial:Consolidated PropertiesSq. Ft.(1)Unconsolidated PropertiesSq. Ft.Total PropertiesTotal Sq. Ft.4269,242——4269,242



(1)Excludes space owned by anchor tenants as well as commercial space located at multifamily communities.



Our business is conducted principally through the Operating Partnership. MAA is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, holding113,518,212OP units, comprising a96.4%partnership interest in the Operating Partnership as ofDecember 31, 2016.



MAA and MAALP were formed in Tennessee in 1993.  Our offices are located at 6584 Poplar Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38138 and our telephone number is (901) 682-6600. As ofDecember 31, 2016, we had2,466full-time employees and62part-time employees.



Merger of MAA and Post Properties



On December 1, 2016,  MAA completed its previously announced merger with Post Properties.  Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), Post Properties merged with and into MAA, with MAA continuing as the surviving corporation (the "Parent Merger"), and Post LP merged with and into MAALP, with MAALP continuing as the surviving entity (the "Partnership Merger").  We refer to the Parent Merger, together with the Partnership Merger, as the Merger in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of Post Properties common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.71 of a newly issued share of MAA common stock including the right, if any, to receive cash in lieu of fractional shares of MAA common stock.  In addition, each limited partner interest in Post LP designated as a "Class A Unit" automatically converted into the right to receive 0.71 of a newly issued partnership unit of MAALP.  Also, each share of Post Properties Series A Preferred Stock was automatically converted into the right to receive one newly issued share of MAA's 8.50% Series I Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value per share, which we refer to as MAA Series I preferred stock.  Each newly issued share of MAA Series I preferred stock has the same rights, preferences, privileges, and voting powers as those of the Post Properties Series A preferred stock.



The net assets and results of operations of Post Properties are included in our consolidated financial statements from the closing date, December 1, 2016, through December 31, 2016, the end of our fiscal year.


























Reporting Segments



As ofDecember 31, 2016, we owned 302 multifamily apartment communities located in16states from which we derived all significant sources of earnings and operating cash flows.  Additionally, we had full ownership offourcommercial properties inthreestates.  Senior management evaluates performance and determines resource allocations by reviewing apartment communities individually and in the following reportable operating segments:

•Large market same store communities are generally communities in markets with a population of at least 1 million and at least 1% of the total public multifamily REIT units that we have owned and that have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months.

•Secondary market same store communities are generally communities in markets with populations of more than 1 million but less than 1% of the total public multifamily REIT units or markets with populations of less than 1 million that we have owned and that have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months.

•Non same store communities and other includes recent acquisitions, communities in development or lease-up, communities that have been identified for disposition, and communities that have undergone a significant casualty loss.  Also included in non same store communities are non-multifamily activities which represent less than 1% of our portfolio's net operating income.



On the first day of each calendar year, we determine the composition of our same store operating segments for that year as well as adjust the previous year, which allows us to evaluate full period-over-period operating comparisons.  For financial reporting purposes, the operating results of the Post Properties assets that we acquired in the Merger are within the "non-same store communities and other" reporting segment. The legacy Post Properties assets will not be eligible to be included in same store segments until January 1, 2018.  Properties in development or lease-up will generally be added to the same store portfolio on the first day of the calendar year after they have been owned and stabilized for at least a full 12 months. Communities are considered stabilized after achieving 90% occupancy for 90 days. Communities that have been identified for disposition are excluded from our same store portfolio.



During 2016, we added 12 communities to our same store portfolio and moved 13 communities to our non-same store and other segment. In addition, as a result of the Merger, we added 58 wholly-owned apartment communities to our non-same store and other segment.



A summary of segment operating results for2016,2015and2014is included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16. Additionally, segment operating performance for such years is discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Business Objectives



Our primary business objectives are to protect and grow existing property values, to maintain a stable and increasing cash flow that will fund our dividends and distributions through all parts of the real estate investment cycle, and to create shareholder value by growing in a disciplined manner. To achieve these objectives, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies:



•effectively and efficiently operate our existing properties with an intense property and asset management focus and a decentralized structure;

•manage real estate cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, renovating and developing apartment communities;

•diversify investment capital across both large and secondary markets to achieve a growing and less volatile operating performance; and

•actively manage our capital structure to help enhance predictability of earnings to fund our dividends and distributions.



2016 Highlights



•Completed the Merger with Post Properties

•Independent of the Merger, acquiredfivemultifamily communities, totaling 1,626 units, and sold 12 multifamily communities, totaling 3,263 units.










•Completed the construction of two development communities, and had nine communities, totaling 2,816 units, under construction at the end of the year.

•During the second half of 2016, both Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services upgraded MAA's senior unsecured rating to BBB+ with a stable outlook.

•On December 1, 2016, after the close of trading, MAA was added to the benchmark S&P 500 Index.



Operations Strategy



Our goal is to generate return on investment collectively and in each apartment community by increasing revenues, controlling operating expenses, maintaining high occupancy levels and reinvesting in the income producing capacity of each community as appropriate. The steps taken to meet these objectives include:



•providing management information and improved customer services through technology innovations;

•utilizing systems to enhance property managers’ ability to optimize revenue by adjusting rental rates in response to local market conditions and individual unit amenities;

•implementing programs to control expenses through investment in cost-saving initiatives;

•analyzing individual asset productivity performances to identify best practices and improvement areas;

•proactively maintaining the physical condition of each property through ongoing capital investments;

•improving the “curb appeal” of the apartment communities through extensive landscaping and exterior improvements, and repositioning apartment communities from time-to-time to enhance or maintain market positions;

•aggressively managing lease expirations to align with peak leasing traffic patterns and to maximize productivity of property staffing;

•allocating additional capital, including capital for selective interior and exterior improvements;

•compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock ownership programs; and

•maintaining a hands-on management style and “flat” organizational structure that emphasizes property level decision making coupled with asset management and senior management's monitoring.



We believe that our decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge, provides greater personal accountability than a centralized structure and is beneficial in the acquisition and redevelopment processes. To support this decentralized operational structure, senior and executive management, along with various asset management functions, are proactively involved in supporting and reviewing property management through extensive reporting processes and frequent on-site visits. To maximize the amount of information shared between senior and executive management and the properties on a real time basis, we utilize a web-based property management system. The system contains property and accounting modules that allow for operating efficiencies, continued expense control, provide for various expanded revenue management practices, and improve the support provided to on-site property operations. We use a “yield management” pricing program that helps our property managers optimize rental revenues, and we also utilize purchase order and accounts payable software to provide improved controls and management information.



Advances in technologies continue to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our residents. Since October 2012, our residents have been utilizing our web-based resident internet portal on our website. Our residents have the ability to conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. In February 2013, we completed the roll out of online leasing renewals throughout our portfolio. As a result of transforming our operations through technology, resident’s satisfaction improved, and our operating teams have become more efficient. Web-based technologies have also resulted in declining marketing and advertising costs, improved cash management, and better pricing management of our available apartments.



Acquisition Strategy



One of our growth strategies is to acquire apartment communities that are located in large or secondary markets primarily throughout the Southeast and Southwest regions of the United States.  Acquisitions, along with dispositions as discussed below, help us achieve and maintain our desired product mix, geographic diversification and asset allocation.  Portfolio growth allows for maximizing the efficiency of the existing management and overhead structure.  We have extensive experience in the acquisition of multifamily communities.  We will continue to evaluate opportunities that arise, and will utilize this strategy to increase the number of apartment communities in strong and growing markets.


















The following apartment communities and land parcels, in addition to the 61 properties encompassing 20,818 units, along with 6 land parcels, acquired through the Merger, were acquired by us during the year endedDecember 31, 2016:



Multifamily AcquisitionsMarketApartment UnitsYear BuiltClosing DateThe Apartments at Cobblestone SquareFredericksburg, Virginia3142012March 1, 2016Residences at FountainheadPhoenix, Arizona3222015June 30, 2016Yale at 6thHouston, Texas3522015September 8, 2016Innovation Apartment HomesGreenville, South Carolina3362015September 22, 20161201 MidtownCharleston, South Carolina3022015December 15, 2016Total Multifamily Acquisitions1,626



Land AcquisitionsMarketAcresClosing Date1201 MidtownCharleston, South Carolina4December 29, 2016





Disposition Strategy



We sell apartment communities and other assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to acquire, develop and redevelop additional apartment communities and to rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. Dispositions also allow us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provide additional liquidity. We are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising additional capital. When we decide to sell a community, we consider current market conditions and generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price and other key terms of each proposal.  We also consider portfolio dispositions when such a structure is useful to maximize proceeds and efficiency of execution.  During the year ended December 31,2016, we disposed of12multifamily properties totaling3,263units, two commercial properties totaling 325,418 square feet, and four land parcels totaling 67 acres.



Development Strategy



As another part of our growth strategy, we invest in a limited number of development projects.  Development activities may be conducted through wholly-owned affiliated companies or through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties.  Fixed price construction contracts are signed with unrelated parties to minimize construction risk.  We typically manage the leasing portion of the project as units become available for lease.  We may also engage in limited expansion development opportunities on existing communities in which we typically serve as the developer. While we seek opportunistic new development investments offering attractive long-term investment returns, we intend to maintain a total development commitment that we consider modest in relation to our total balance sheet and investment portfolio. During the year ended December 31,2016, we incurred$58.9 millionin development costs.










































The following multifamily projects were under development as ofDecember 31, 2016(dollars in thousands):



Project:MarketTotal UnitsUnits CompletedCost to DateBudgeted CostEstimated Cost Per UnitExpected CompletionPost Parkside at Wade IIRaleigh/Durham, North Carolina406263$55,528$58,900$1452nd Quarter 2017Retreat at West Creek IIRichmond, Virginia82—$12,530$15,100$1842nd Quarter 2017CG at Randal Lakes Phase IIOrlando, Florida314212$35,060$41,300$1322nd Quarter 2017Post Afton OaksHouston, Texas388225$76,363$79,900$2062nd Quarter 2017The Denton IIKansas City, Missouri-Kansas154—$12,526$25,400$1654th Quarter 2017Post South Lamar IIAustin, Texas344—$44,351$65,600$1914th Quarter 2017Post Millennium MidtownAtlanta, Georgia332—$44,648$91,100$2741st Quarter 2018Post River NorthDenver, Colorado358—$51,391$88,200$2461st Quarter 2018Post Centennial ParkAtlanta, Georgia438—$34,150$96,300$2203rd Quarter 20182,816700$366,547$561,800



Redevelopment Strategy



In 2005 we began an initiative of upgrading a significant number of our existing apartment communities in key markets across our portfolio. We focus on both interior unit upgrades and exterior amenities above and beyond routine capital upkeep in markets that we believe continue to have the ability to support additional rent growth. During the year endedDecember 31, 2016, we renovated 6,812 units and exterior amenities at an average cost of $4,478 per unit.  We believe that the rents received on these renovated units were approximately9.8%above the normal market rate for similar but non-renovated units.



Capital Structure Strategy



We use a combination of debt and equity sources to fund our business strategy. We maintain a capital structure, focused on maintaining access, flexibility and low costs, that we believe allows us to proactively source potential investment opportunities in the marketplace.  We structure our debt maturity schedule to avoid significant exposure in any given year.  Our primary debt financing strategy is to access the unsecured debt markets to provide our debt capital needs, but we also maintain a limited amount of secured debt and maintain our access to both the secured and unsecured debt markets for maximum flexibility.  We also believe that we have significant access to the equity capital markets.



AtDecember 31, 2016,28.1%of our total market capitalization consisted of borrowings, including19.8%under our unsecured credit facilities or unsecured senior notes and8.2%under our secured borrowings. We currently intend to target our total debt, net of cash held, to a range of approximately 32% to 38% of the undepreciated book value of our assets. Our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels and our Board of Directors can modify this policy at any time. We may also issue new equity to maintain our debt within the target range. Covenants for our unsecured senior notes limit our debt to undepreciated book value of our assets to 60%.  As ofDecember 31, 2016, our ratio of total debt to total assets was approximately 33.9%.



We continuously review opportunities for lowering our cost of capital. We plan to continue using unsecured debt in order to take advantage of the lower cost of capital and flexibility provided by these markets. We will evaluate opportunities to repurchase shares when we believe that our share price is significantly below our net present value. We also look for opportunities where we can acquire or develop apartment communities, selectively funded or partially funded by sales of equity securities, when appropriate opportunities arise. We focus on improving the net present value of our investments by generating cash flows from our portfolio of assets above the estimated total cost of debt and equity capital. We routinely make new investments when we believe it will be accretive to shareholder value over the life of the investments.



On December 9, 2015, we entered into distribution agreements with J.P. Morgan Securities, LLC, BMO Capital Markets Corp. and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. to sell up to an aggregate of 4.0 million shares of common stock, from time-to-time in at-the-market offerings or negotiated transactions through controlled equity offering programs, or ATMs.  As ofDecember 31, 2016, there were 4.0 million shares remaining under the ATMs.










The following are the issuances of common stock which have been made through these types of ATM agreements from January 1, 2012, throughDecember 31, 2016:



Number ofShares SoldNet         ProceedsNetAverageSales PriceGross     ProceedsGross               Average                Sales Price20121,155,511$75,863,040$65.65$77,019,121$66.652013365,01124,753,49267.8225,067,00968.672014—————2015—————2016—————Total1,520,522$100,616,532$66.17$102,086,130$67.15



We also have a dividend and distribution reinvestment stock purchase plan, or DRSPP, which allows for the optional cash purchase of shares of common stock totaling at least $250, but not more than $5,000 in any given month, free of brokerage commissions and charges. We, in our absolute discretion, may grant waivers to allow for optional cash payments in excess of $5,000. During the year endedDecember 31, 2016, we issued a total of1,579shares through the optional cash purchase feature of the DRSPP, resulting in net proceeds of$152,463.



Share Repurchase Program



On December 8, 2015, MAA's Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to 4.0 million shares of MAA common stock, which represented approximately 5.3% of MAA's common stock outstanding at the time of such authorization. This December 2015 authorization replaced and superseded a previous authorization from 1999, under which approximately 2.1 million shares remained at the time of the December 2015 authorization but through which no shares had been repurchased since April 2001.  From time-to-time, we may repurchase shares under the current authorization when we believe that shareholder value would be enhanced. Factors affecting this determination include, among others, the share price and expected rates of return.  No shares were repurchased from December 8, 2015 through December 31, 2016 under the current authorization.



Competition



All of our apartment communities are located in areas that include other apartment communities. Occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of competitive apartment communities in a particular area. The owners of competing apartment communities may have greater resources than us, and the managers of these apartment communities may have more experience than our management. Moreover, single-family rental housing, manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities.



Competition for new residents is generally intense across all of our markets. Some competing communities offer features that our communities do not have. Competing communities can use concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. Also, some competing communities are larger or newer than our communities. The competitive position of each community is different depending upon many factors including sub-market supply and demand. In addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties and to develop new properties. These competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment REITs, some of which may have greater resources, or lower capital costs, than we do.



We believe, however, that we are generally well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments.  We believe our competitive advantages include:



•a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise;

•scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing electronic needs of our residents;

•access to a wide variety of debt and equity capital sources;

•geographic diversification with a presence in approximately 39 defined Metropolitan Statistical Areas, MSAs, across the Southeast and Southwest regions of the United States; and

•significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert.












Moving forward, we plan to continue to optimize lease management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with our bottom line performance. We believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio’s strengths in targeting residents across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational upside.  We also make capital improvements to both our apartment communities and individual units on a regular basis in order to maintain a competitive position in each individual market.



Environmental Matters



As a normal part of our apartment community acquisition and development processes, we generally obtain environmental studies of the sites from outside environmental engineering firms. As part of the due diligence process for the Merger, we reviewed the existing environmental studies and other related documents outlining potential risk on the properties acquired through the Merger. The purpose of these studies is to identify potential sources of contamination at the site and to assess the status of environmental regulatory compliance. These studies generally include historical reviews of the site, reviews of certain public records, preliminary investigations of the site and surrounding properties, inspection for the presence of asbestos, poly-chlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, and underground storage tanks and the preparation and issuance of written reports. Depending on the results of these studies, more invasive procedures, such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, may be performed to investigate potential sources of contamination. These studies must be satisfactorily completed before we take ownership of an acquisition or development property; however, no assurance can be given that the studies or additional documents reviewed identify all significant environmental risks.  See "Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Real Estate Investments and our Operations - Environmental problems are possible and can be costly."



The environmental studies we received on properties that we have acquired have not revealed any material environmental liabilities. Should any potential environmental risks or conditions be discovered during our due diligence process, the potential costs of remediation will be assessed carefully and factored into the cost of acquisition, assuming the identified risks and factors are deemed to be manageable and within reason.  We are not aware of any existing conditions that we believe would be considered a material environmental liability. Nevertheless, it is possible that the studies do not reveal all environmental risks or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware. Moreover, no assurance can be given concerning future laws, ordinances or regulations, or the potential introduction of hazardous or toxic substances by neighboring properties or residents.



Website Access to Our Reports



MAA and the Operating Partnership file combined periodic reports with the SEC. These filings are available on the SEC's website which is http://www.sec.gov.  In addition, all filings made by MAA and the Operating Partnership with the SEC may be copied or read at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



Additionally, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, along with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to the aforementioned filings, are available on our website free of charge. The filings can be found on the "For Investors" page under "SEC Filings". Our website also contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct and the charters of the committees of the Board of Directors. These items can be found on the "For Investors" page in the "Governance Documents" section under "Corporate Overview". Our website address is http://www.maac.com. Reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the site and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All of the aforementioned materials may also be obtained free of charge by contacting our Legal Department, 6584 Poplar Avenue, Memphis, TN 38138.



Qualification as a Real Estate Investment Trust



MAA has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. To continue to qualify as a REIT, MAA must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our shareholders annually. If MAA maintains its qualification as a REIT, MAA generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on its net income to the extent it distributes such net income to its shareholders annually. Even if MAA continues to qualify as a REIT, it will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and its property. In2016, MAA paid total distributions of$3.28per share of common stock to its shareholders, which was above the 90% REIT distribution requirement and was in excess of REIT taxable income.














Inflation



We believe that the direct effects of inflation on our operations have been immaterial.  While the impact of inflation primarily impacts our results through wage pressures, property taxes, utilities and material costs, substantially all of our leases are for a term of one year or less, which generally enables us to compensate for any inflationary effects by increasing rents on our apartments.  Although an escalation in energy and food costs could have a negative impact on our residents and their ability to absorb rent increases, we do not believe this has had a material impact on our results for the year endedDecember 31, 2016.



Insurance



We carry comprehensive general liability coverage on our communities, with limits of liability we believe are customary within the multi-family apartment industry, to insure against liability claims and related defense costs.  We also maintain insurance against the risk of direct physical damage to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period.



Recent Developments



On February 7, 2017, we paid off the $15.8 million remaining principal balance of the mortgage on the Grand Cypress apartment community.












