ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing applications. We provide a comprehensive customer and collaboration relationship
management, or CRM, service to businesses of all sizes and industries worldwide and we provide a technology platform for customers and developers to build and run business applications.

We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1999, and founded on the simple concept of delivering enterprise business applications via
the Internet or “cloud.” Cloud computing refers to the use of Internet-based computing, storage and connectivity technology for a variety of different services. We introduced our first service in February 2000. Since then, we have
augmented our CRM service with new editions and enhanced features. We introduced our Force.com platform to customers and developers so they can build complementary applications to extend beyond CRM. In 2010 we introduced our AppExchange directory of
enterprise cloud computing applications that are integrated with our CRM service and in most cases have been developed on our platform by third parties. We also introduced Chatter, a collaboration application for the enterprise to connect and share
information securely and in real-time.

Our principal executive offices are located in San Francisco, California and our
principal website address iswww.salesforce.com. Our office address is The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94105.







We designed and developed our applications to be easy-to-use and intuitive solutions that
can be deployed rapidly, customized easily and integrated with other software applications. We deliver our service through any of the market-leading Web browsers. Customers who use our CRM and collaboration services and platform are able to avoid
much of the expense and complexity of traditional enterprise software development and implementations. As a result, our customers incur less risk and lower upfront costs and benefit from increased productivity.

We market our service to businesses on a subscription basis, primarily through our direct sales efforts and indirectly through partners.
Through our Force.com platform and developer tools and our AppExchange, we also encourage third parties to develop additional functionality and applications that run on our platform, but which are sold separately from, or in conjunction with, our
CRM service.

Cloud Computing

Cloud computing fundamentally changes the way enterprise business software applications are developed and deployed. Application developers no longer need to create and manage their own infrastructure of
servers, storage, network devices, operating system software and development tools in order to create a business application. Instead, the entire infrastructure is managed by third parties who specialize in infrastructure management, and developers
simply use an Internet browser to access the development environment. Application users can gain access to a variety of business applications via an Internet browser or mobile device, and are able to take advantage of a robust, secure, scalable and
highly available application, without the cost and complexity of managing the hardware or software infrastructure.

Our vision
of enterprise cloud computing is based on a multi-tenant technology architecture and a subscription service business model. With multi-tenancy, multiple customers share application, platform and infrastructure services provided by the vendor.

Today, we believe that the next phase of cloud computing is transforming enterprise software again. Driven by the
consumerization of information technology (“IT”), our next phase of cloud computing will have three key characteristics – it will be social, mobile and open. With the popularity of social networking websites, new ways to communicate
and collaborate based on feeds and status updates have emerged. In the enterprise market, that means enabling employees to easily find, share and collaborate on information. In addition, with the wide adoption of mobile phones and tablets, our
customers now expect cloud computing technologies to be built for business to work on these devices, regardless of the carrier or operating system. We are working to provide these new kinds of cloud computing technologies to enterprise customers
around the world.

Cloud Applications

Cloud applications enable businesses to subscribe to a wide variety of application services that are developed specifically for, and
delivered over, the Internet on an as-needed basis with few or no implementation services required and without the need to install and manage third-party software or hardware in-house.

Historically, only large businesses could afford to make investments in enterprise resource planning, CRM and collaboration applications
to gain an enterprise-wide view of business information and automate and improve basic processes. However, cloud applications are available to businesses of all sizes and across all industries. Multi-tenant architectures enables cloud vendors like
us to leverage a common infrastructure and software code base across all of our customers who benefit from access to the most current release of the application, periodic upgrades, more rapid innovation and the economies of a shared infrastructure.

We believe the shift to cloud applications provides significant benefits even beyond those associated with multi-tenant
infrastructure. Businesses are able to realize many of the benefits offered by traditional enterprise







software vendors, such as a comprehensive set of features and functionality and the ability to customize and integrate with other applications, while at the same time reducing the risks and
lowering the total costs associated with owning enterprise software. As a result, we believe the continued emergence of cloud applications is bringing about a fundamental transformation in the enterprise software industry as businesses are offered
the choice of replacing their purchased software with subscriptions to a wide range of application services.

Cloud
Platforms

We believe that cloud applications and their related success in the market are the most
widely understood segment of enterprise cloud computing. However, enterprise cloud computing also includes building applications on a cloud-based application development platform, also referred to as cloud platforms.

Application developers use cloud platform technology to build both custom applications for individual businesses or vertical industries,
and horizontal applications to address standard business processes that can be sold to a broad range of potential customers. Application developers include corporate IT departments that typically develop applications for a company’s
internal-use and independent software vendors (“ISVs”) that develop applications to sell to customers. Traditionally, these developers have needed to purchase, install, test and maintain complex software and hardware infrastructure to
develop and deliver their applications. This requirement resulted in more time and resources being spent maintaining infrastructure and less time and resources being available to actually develop applications, with a resulting reduction in
innovation and productivity levels.

Cloud platforms enable corporate IT developers and ISVs to leverage the benefits of a
multi-tenant platform for developing new applications. Cloud platforms allow developers to build applications using only a browser and an Internet connection, just as cloud applications allow users to use applications through a browser. In addition,
developers typically pay no upfront costs when building cloud applications, with costs only to be incurred at the point of application deployment.

Our cloud platforms provide application developers access to new capabilities that can be built into their business applications. These platforms include features popularized by social networking
companies, such as profiles, status updates and feeds; and also the capability to extend applications for use on mobile devices.

Our cloud platforms allow both IT departments and ISV developers to use several programming languages to build their applications. While there are many benefits to a language natively associated with a
cloud platform, developers are able to use the most popular programming languages on our cloud platforms, such as Java and Ruby, to build their applications. Our cloud platforms support multiple languages to provide developers openness and choice.

Our Solution

Our CRM applications help companies better record, track, manage, analyze and share information regarding sales, customer service and
support, and marketing operations. In 2010 we introduced Salesforce Chatter, a private social network for businesses. Our Force.com cloud computing platform, which was introduced in 2007, allows customers and partners to more extensively customize
and integrate our applications or build entirely new cloud applications beyond CRM without having to invest in new software, hardware and related infrastructure. These newly developed applications, which run on our infrastructure, can then be used
for internal operations or sold to third parties.

We also offer the AppExchange, an online directory for cloud applications,
where customers can browse, test-drive and deploy applications from salesforce.com and our partners.







The majority of our subscription and support revenue comes from subscriptions to our core
CRM application and Force.com application development platform. In order for customers to install and run custom applications, whether built by themselves or by our partners, they must be a subscriber to our service.

By subscribing to our service, our customers do not have to make large and potentially risky upfront investments in software, hardware,
implementation services and IT staff as they would with traditional software solutions. We believe that our service enables businesses to rapidly achieve the benefits of higher productivity, and lower their total cost of ownership for their business
application.

Key advantages of our solution include:



•Secure, scalable and reliable delivery platform.The delivery platform for our service has been designed to provide our customers with high
levels of performance, reliability, and security. We have built, and continue to invest in, a comprehensive security infrastructure, including firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and encryption for transmissions over the Internet, which we
monitor and test on a regular basis. We built and maintain a multi-tenant application architecture that has been designed to enable our service to scale securely, reliably, and cost-effectively. Our multi-tenant application architecture maintains
the integrity and separation of customer data while still permitting all customers to use the same application functionality simultaneously.



•Rapid deployment.Our service can be deployed rapidly since our customers do not have to spend time procuring, installing or maintaining the
servers, storage, networking equipment, security products, or other infrastructure hardware and software necessary to ensure a scalable and reliable service.



•Ease of integration.Our platform is designed to enable IT professionals to integrate our service with existing applications quickly and
seamlessly. Our Force.com platform provides a set of application programming interfaces, or “APIs,” that enable customers and independent developers to both integrate our service with existing third-party, custom, and legacy applications
and write their own application services that integrate with our service. For example, many of our customers use the Force.com API to move customer-related data from custom-developed and legacy applications into our service on a periodic basis to
provide greater visibility into their activities. Other customers and partners have, for example, developed their own talent management solutions and procurement solutions on the Force.com platform.



•Rapid development of applications using the Force.com platform. Our customers and third party developers can develop applications rapidly
because of the ease of use and the benefits of a multi-tenant platform. We provide the capability for business users to easily customize our applications to suit their specific needs, and also powerful programming language support so developers can
code complex applications spanning multiple business processes.



•Increasing innovation.By providing infrastructure and development environments on demand, we provide developers the opportunity to create new
and innovative applications without having to invest in hardware and distribution. A developer with an idea for a new application can log onto our platform, develop, test and support their system on Force.com and make the application accessible for
a fee to our customers.



•Lower total cost of ownership.We enable customers to achieve significant upfront savings relative to the traditional enterprise software model.
Customers benefit from the predictability of their future costs since they pay for the service on a per subscriber basis for the term of the subscription contract. All upgrades are included in our service, so customers are not burdened or disrupted
by the periodic need to perform system upgrades. Because we implement all upgrades on our servers, new features and functionality automatically become part of our service on the release date and therefore benefit all of our customers immediately.



•High levels of user adoption.We have designed our service to be intuitive and easy to use. Since our service contains many tools and features
recognizable to users of popular websites such as those of Amazon, Facebook, Google and Twitter, it has a more familiar user interface than typical enterprise CRM applications. As a result, our users do not require substantial training on how to use
and benefit from our service.







Our Strategy

Our objective is to be the leading provider of CRM application services. We also want to be the leading cloud computing platform on which our customers and partners build applications.

Key elements of our strategy include:



•Strengthening our existing CRM applications and extending into new functional areas within CRM.We designed our service to easily accommodate
new features and functions. We intend to continue to add CRM features and functionality to our core service that we will make available to customers at no additional charge. We offer advanced editions for an additional subscription fee to customers
that require enhanced CRM capabilities. We have a growing portfolio of applications that serve different customer segments and markets. During fiscal 2011 we acquired several companies in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and
technologies in an effort to strengthen and extend our service CRM offerings. We expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future.



•Pursuing new customers and new territories aggressively.We believe that our cloud application and platform offerings provide significant value
for businesses of any size. As a result, we will continue to aggressively target businesses of all sizes, primarily through our direct sales force. We have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of direct sales professionals
we employ, and we intend to develop additional distribution channels for our service. We have created several editions of our service to address the distinct requirements of businesses of different sizes. We also believe that there is a substantial
market opportunity for our service outside of North America. We plan to continue to aggressively market to customers outside of North America by recruiting local sales and support professionals and by building partnerships that help us add customers
in these regions.



•Deepening relationships with our existing customer base.We believe there is significant opportunity to leverage our relationships with existing
customers. As the customer realizes the benefits of our service, we aim to either upgrade our customers to higher priced editions or sell more subscriptions by targeting additional functional areas and business units within the customer organization
and ultimately pursuing enterprise-wide deployments. We aim to have our customers renew their subscriptions at the end of their contractual terms and we run customer success and other programs in an effort to secure renewals of existing customers.



•Continuing to lead the industry transformation to the next phase of cloud computing. We believe that the market transformation to cloud
applications and platforms is a growing trend in the information technology industry. With the popularity of social networking websites, new ways to communicate and collaborate based on feeds and status updates have emerged in the enterprise. We
believe we have established a leadership position in the enterprise cloud computing industry as a successful vendor of CRM application services, an enabler for third parties to create their own cloud applications through our platform and a developer
of cloud computing technologies with social, mobile and open characteristics to provide to enterprise customers around the world.



•Encouraging the development of third-party applications on our Force.com cloud computing platform. Our Force.com cloud computing platform
enables existing customers, ISVs and third-party developers to develop and deliver cloud applications they have built in our multi-tenant environment. It is a platform on which applications can be created, tested, published, and run. In addition,
these applications can be listed on the AppExchange, our online marketplace of cloud applications, or sold by ISVs. We believe the ecosystem of cloud developers and ISVs will address the business requirements of both current and potential customers.

The Salesforce CRM Service

Our comprehensive array of services enable customers and subscribers to systematically record, store, analyze, share, and act upon business data and to help businesses manage customer accounts, track
sales leads, evaluate marketing campaigns, and provide post-sales service. We also enable companies to generate reports and







summaries of this data and share them with authorized individuals across functional areas. Most of the features of our service can be accessed through a variety of devices, including laptop
computers, tablets and mobile devices. Additionally, our service is highly configurable in a short amount of time, enabling our customers to tailor its appearance, policy settings, language, workflow, reports, and other characteristics without the
use of significant IT resources or consultants.

Our CRM services are primarily marketed under two brands, the Sales Cloud and
the Service Cloud:



•Sales Cloud.The sales force automation features of our application services are marketed under our Sales Cloud brand. Through the Sales
Cloud, users are able to be more productive through the automation of manual and repetitive tasks and access to better and more organized data about their current customers and prospects. Our customers are also able to establish a system and process
for recording, tracking, and sharing information about sales opportunities, sales leads, sales forecasts, the sales process, and closed business, as well as managing sales territories. Our customers are also better able to manage unstructured
information such as sales collateral, presentations, price lists, and video assets. In addition, the Sales Cloud encompasses partner relationship management functionality (including channel management and partner portals) and marketing automation
(including campaigns, ROI tracking, and Google AdWords integration).



•Service Cloud.Our customer service and support automation features are marketed under our Service Cloud brand. Through the Service
Cloud, companies are able to maintain better relationships with their existing customers and more efficiently address a variety of service and support needs, such as advice about products and services, requests for repairs, complaints about faulty
goods, and the need for additional goods and services. Using the Service Cloud, customers can leverage our complete cloud-computing platform to deliver a comprehensive solution for their customer service interactions across every service channel:
call centers with phone, email, and chat; Web portals for self-service and customer collaboration; and community interactions within social networks.

As of January 31, 2011, we offered five principal service editions: Contact Manager Edition, Group Edition, Professional Edition, Enterprise Edition, and Unlimited Edition. Chatter is included in
each Edition. We derived over 90 percent of our revenues from subscriptions to, and support for, our service in fiscal 2011.



•Contact Manager Edition.Contact Manager Edition, which is limited to five subscribers, is targeted primarily at individuals and small
businesses that seek basic contact and customer management. Users can track customer contacts and manage tasks and activities.



•Group Edition.Group Edition, which is also limited to five subscribers, is targeted primarily at small businesses and workgroups that
seek a basic sales force automation solution. Users can share important customer data and manage their customer relations—from the start of the sales cycle to closing the deal to providing basic customer service. In addition to everything
available in Contact Manager Edition, Group Edition offers access to opportunities, accounts, contacts, tasks and basic reports. Using the Force.com platform, customers can further extend and customize Group Edition by adding additional custom tabs
and/or a custom application.



•Professional Edition.Professional Edition is targeted primarily at medium-sized and large businesses that need a robust and complete CRM
solution but do not need some of the more advanced administrative features and integration capabilities. Professional Edition offers companies a comprehensive CRM suite that business users can use to manage every aspect of the customer lifecycle. In
addition to everything available in Group Edition, it provides users more advanced CRM functionality such as: forecasts, lead management, contract management, solutions, and online case capture. Professional Edition also comes with standard,
easy-to-use customization, security and sharing, integration, and administration tools to facilitate any small to mid-sized deployment. Using the Force.com platform, Professional Edition customers have more flexibility than Group Edition customers
to further extend and customize their service by adding more custom applications, custom tabs, and/or custom objects.







•Enterprise Edition.Enterprise Edition is designed to meet the complex business needs of large organizations with many divisions or
departments. In addition to all of the functionality available in Professional Edition, Enterprise Edition offers customers:



•advanced CRM functionality, such as territory management that uses a rule-based territory assignment engine to categorize accounts and users into
territories, products, and schedules that track revenue and quantity by opportunities;



•multi-divisional sharing and permissions such as profile-based departmental security and sharing;



•workflow and business process control such as workflow automation tasks; and



•enterprise customization and integration tools that can support large-scale deployments, such as APIs for back-office integration that enable companies
to readily integrate Salesforce CRM with ERP applications and other data sources. Customers also have greater flexibility and control to fully extend and customize our service by adding more custom applications, custom tabs, and/or custom objects.



•Unlimited Edition.Unlimited Edition is our most fully featured edition, with exclusive features available only in Unlimited Edition and
bundled add-on features included at a significant cost saving over the total price of the individual features. In addition to all of the functionality available in Enterprise Edition, Unlimited Edition includes unlimited installations from the
AppExchange, increased customization and extension possibilities that customers can implement on their own, Premier Support with Administration and additional storage. In addition to Chatter Unlimited Edition includes all the features of Chatter
Plus.

Each of the editions described above entitles customers to our standard customer support services.
For advanced customers with more complex business needs, we provide additional levels of fee-based customer support.

In
addition to the five editions, we continue to innovate and develop additional products and services as optional add-on subscriptions to better meet different customers’ needs.

Collaboration Cloud

We offer various collaboration cloud products such as
Chatter, Chatter Plus, Chatter Mobile, Chatter Free and Chatter.com. Each of these products provides a private and secure corporate social network for companies of all sizes. Chatter is a core attribute of our Force.com platform and its social
capabilities are an integral part of each of our service offerings.

Force.com Platform

The Force.com cloud computing platform, which is marketed under our Custom Cloud brand, enhances the attractiveness of our service,
particularly to enterprise customers. The Force.com platform provides a feature set and technology environment for building business applications, including data models and objects to manage data, a workflow engine for managing collaboration of data
between users, a user interface model to handle forms and other interactions, and a Web services API for programmatic access and integration. The Force.com platform provides the tools and infrastructure required to:



•deploy our application service for CRM;



•customize and integrate existing enterprise software applications;



•create and deploy new business applications that are pre-integrated with our service and leverage the same user interface or customize the user
interface specific to customer requirements; and



•sample and deploy applications built by third parties from the AppExchange.







The AppExchange

We offer the AppExchange, an online directory that provides customers a way to browse, test-drive, share, and install applications
developed on our Force.com platform. Partners and developers can offer their applications on the AppExchange directory. This directory gives our users a way to find and install applications to expand their use of the Force.com platform to areas that
are complementary to or extend beyond CRM.

When installing an enterprise cloud computing application built by a third-party
partner or developer, customers authorize the third-party provider access to their data. Because they are built, managed and provisioned by third parties, we do not warrant the functionality, security and integrity of the data transmission or
processing.

Professional Services

We offer consulting, implementation and training services to our customers to facilitate the adoption of our enterprise cloud computing CRM application and platform services. Consulting services consist
of services such as business process mapping, project management services and guidance on best practices in using our service. Implementation services include systems integration, technical architecture and development, configuration and data
conversion as well as developing and delivering customized education programs for our customers. Most of our consulting and implementation engagements are billed on a time and materials basis. We offer a number of traditional classroom and online
educational classes that address topics such as implementing, using, administering and developing on our service. We also offer classes for our partners who implement our service on behalf of our customers. We bill the traditional classroom and some
of the online educational classes on a per person, per class basis. There is a selection of online educational classes available at no charge to customers who subscribe to our service.

As the reach of our enterprise cloud computing application services has grown, partners and other third party consulting and professional
service providers play an integral part in providing these services to our customers.

Technology, Development and Operations

Technology and Development

We do not provide software that must be written to different hardware, operating system and database platforms, or that depends upon a customer’s unique systems environment. Rather, we have optimized
our service to run on a specific database and operating system using the tools and platforms best suited to serve our customers. Performance, functional depth and the usability of our service drive our technology decisions and product direction.

We built our service as a highly scalable, multi-tenant application. We use commercially available hardware and a combination
of proprietary and commercially available software to provide our service. The application server is custom-built and runs on a lightweight Java Servlet and Java Server Pages engine. We have custom-built core services such as database connection
pooling and user session management tuned to our specific architecture and environment, allowing us to continue to scale our service. We have combined a stateless environment, in which a user is not bound to a single server but can be routed in the
most optimal way to any number of servers, with an advanced data caching layer. Our customers can access the service through any Web browser.

Our service treats all customers as logically separate tenants in central applications and databases. As a result, we are able to spread the cost of delivering our service across our user base. In
addition, because we do not have to manage thousands of distinct applications with their own business logic and database schemas, we believe that we can scale our business faster than traditional software vendors. Moreover, we can focus our
resources on building new functionality to deliver to our customer base as a whole rather than on maintaining an infrastructure to support each of their distinct applications.







Our research and development efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features,
functionality and security of our existing service offerings as well as developing new proprietary services such as Force.com and Salesforce Chatter. In addition, from time to time we supplement our internal research and development activities with
outside development resources and acquired technology. Because of our multi-tenant architecture, we are able to provide all of our customers with a service based on a single version of our application. We are able to upgrade all of our customers at
the same time with each release. As a result, we do not have to maintain multiple versions of our application.

Operations

We currently serve our customers from third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States and in Singapore. All of our hosting facilities are currently leased from Equinix, Dupont
Fabros and NTT, except for offerings added through acquisitions, which are typically served through alternate facilities.

The
Equinix, Dupont Fabros and NTT facilities are built to the same critical systems building codes as hospitals and other vital infrastructure. The facilities are secured by around-the-clock guards; biometric access screening and escort controlled
access, and are supported by on-site backup generators in the event of a power failure. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, all of our customers’ data is currently replicated in near real-time. This strategy is designed to
both protect our customers’ data and ensure service continuity in the event of a major disaster. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted.

Our agreements with Equinix, Dupont Fabros and NTT are for them to supply space in its secure facilities as well as power or connection
points for power and Internet connectivity. Bandwidth to the Internet is provided by multiple independent companies for all our facilities. We continuously monitor the performance of our service. The monitoring features we have built or licensed
include centralized performance consoles, automated load distribution tools and various self-diagnostic tools and program.

Customers

We sell to businesses of all sizes. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to tens of
thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than 5 percent of our revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010, or 2009.

Sources of Revenue







Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We organize our sales and marketing programs by geographic regions, including North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific which includes
Japan. Over 30 percent of our revenue comes from customers outside of North America.

Direct Sales

We sell subscriptions to our service primarily through our direct sales force comprised of inside sales, which consists of personnel that
sell to customers primarily by phone, and field sales personnel, that are primarily based in geographic territories comprising customers and prospects. Both our inside sales and field sales personnel are supported by telesales representatives who
are primarily responsible for generating qualifying leads. Our small business, general business and enterprise account executives and account managers focus their efforts on small, medium-size and large enterprises, respectively.

Referral and Indirect Sales

We have a network of partners who refer customer prospects to us and assist us in selling to these prospects.

The network includes consulting firms, other technology vendors, systems integrators and partners in markets where we do not have a large direct sales presence. In return, we typically pay these partners
a fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the customers they refer. We expense these fees at the time the customer signs the subscription service contract.

We also continue to develop distribution channels for our subscription service.

Marketing

Our marketing strategy is to continually elevate our brand and generate significant demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs to target our prospective and current customers,
partners, and developers.

Our primary marketing activities include:



•press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company and product strategy;



•user conferences and launch events, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events, to create customer awareness and prospect enthusiasm;



•search engine marketing and advertising to drive traffic to our Web properties;



•Web site development to engage and educate prospects and generate interest through product information and demonstrations, free trials, case studies,
white papers, and marketing collateral;



•use of social network solutions such as YouTube;



•email, direct mail, and phone campaigns to capture leads that can be funneled into our sales organization;



•use of customer testimonials; and



•sales tools and field marketing events to enable our sales organization to more effectively convert pipeline into completed transactions.







Customer Service and Support

Our global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquires from our customers relating to how to use our products
and is available to customers by the web, telephone and email.

Basic customer support during business hours is available at
no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying editions. Premier customer support includes extended availability and additional services, such as an assigned support representative and/or administrator. Premier customer support is
available for a separate fee, or is included in our Unlimited Edition. Additional support services include developer support and partner support.

Seasonality

Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest
quarter for new business. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue and Accounts Receivable” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

Competition

The market
for enterprise CRM business applications and development platforms is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. Many
prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to an enterprise cloud
computing application service. Additionally, third party developers may be reluctant to build application services on our platform since they have invested significantly in other competing technology products.

We compete primarily with vendors of packaged CRM software and companies offering on-demand CRM applications. We also compete with
internally developed applications and face, or expect to face, competition from enterprise software vendors and online service providers who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new applications that run on the
customers’ current infrastructure or as hosted services. Our current principal competitors include:



•enterprise software application vendors;



•on-demand CRM application service providers;



•enterprise software application service providers;



•traditional platform development environment companies; and



•cloud computing development platform companies.

We believe that as enterprise software application and platform vendors shift more of their focus to cloud computing, they will be a greater competitive threat.

We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following:



•proven track record of customer success;



•speed and ease of implementation;



•product functionality;



•financial stability and viability of the vendor;



•product adoption;



•ease of use and rates of user adoption;







•low total cost of ownership and demonstrable cost-effective benefits for customers;



•performance, security, scalability, flexibility and reliability of the service;



•ease of integration with existing applications;



•quality of customer support;



•availability and quality of implementation, consulting and training services; and



•vendor reputation and brand awareness.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright,
trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights
agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, documentation and other proprietary information.

As of January 31, 2011, we have a number of issued U.S. patents and hundreds of pending U.S. and international patent applications. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future,
communications from third parties claiming that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. The cost to defend or settle these claims could be material to the net income or cash flows or both of a particular quarter. The outcome of
any litigation is inherently uncertain. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, could divert management attention from executing our business plan and could require us to change our
technology, change our business practices and/or pay monetary damages or enter into short- or long-term royalty or licensing agreements which may not be available in the future at the same terms or at all. In addition, many of our subscription
agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling on such a claim. Any adverse determination related to intellectual property claims
or litigation could prevent us from offering our service to others, or could otherwise adversely affect our operating results or cash flows or both in a particular quarter.

Employees

As of January 31, 2011, we had 5,306 employees. None of our
employees is represented by a labor union.

Available Information

You can obtain copies of our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and
all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our Web site athttp://www.salesforce.com/company/investor/sec-filings/as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. You can also obtain
copies free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed above.







