ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions, with a strong focus on customer relationship management, or CRM,
service offerings to our customers. Our company was founded on the concept of delivering CRM applications via the Internet, or “cloud.” We introduced our first CRM solution in February 2000 and we have expanded our offerings with new
editions, solutions and enhanced features, through internal development and acquisitions.

Our mission is to help our
customers transform themselves into “customer companies” by empowering them to connect with their customers in entirely new ways. With our four core service offerings, involving sales force automation, customer service and support
automation, marketing automation, and the platform, we provide a next generation customer platform.

Our service offerings are
intuitive and easy-to-use, can be deployed rapidly, customized easily and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications, or apps. We deliver our solutions as a service via all the major Internet browsers and on leading major mobile
device operating systems.

We sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide on a subscription basis,
primarily through our direct sales efforts and also indirectly through partners. Through our platform and other developer







Index to Financial Statements

tools, we also encourage third parties to develop additional functionality and new apps that run on our platform, which are sold separately from, or in conjunction with, our service.

In July 2013, we acquired ExactTarget, Inc. (“ExactTarget”), a leading global provider of cross-channel, digital marketing
solutions that empower organizations of all sizes to communicate with their customers through the digital channels they use most. With the acquisition of ExactTarget, we have created a world-class marketing platform that enables companies to deliver
personalized marketing campaigns across the digital channels of email, social, mobile and the web.

We were incorporated in
Delaware in February 1999. Our principal executive offices are located in San Francisco, California and our principal website address is www.salesforce.com. Our office address is The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300, San Francisco,
California 94105.

The Cloud, Social and Mobile Revolution

We believe that the convergence of cloud, social and mobile technologies has created billions of new connections between people and devices and is fundamentally transforming how companies sell, service,
market and innovate.

Cloud computing has changed the way enterprise business apps are developed and deployed. Organizations
no longer need to buy and maintain their own infrastructure of servers, storage and development tools in order to create and run business apps. Instead, companies can gain access to a variety of business apps via an Internet browser or mobile device
on an as-needed basis, without the cost and complexity of managing the hardware or software in-house.

The broad shift to
social networking has transformed the way people collaborate and is accelerating the adoption of technologies that connect people and products through “feeds” and status updates. There is a significant transition underway from desktops to
smartphones and tablets, making it possible for people to get business done right from their mobile devices. And increasingly, customers want to be connected to the products they use.

Customers today are connected, empowered and demand a higher level of service and experience. We believe salesforce.com is at the
forefront of connecting employees, partners, products and devices in order to help companies connect with their customers in new ways through this next generation of apps, devices and products.

Our Cloud Solutions

We
provide enterprise cloud computing solutions. We offer social and mobile cloud apps and platform services, as well as professional services to facilitate the adoption of our solutions. We provide solutions in each of our four core markets: sales,
customer service, marketing and cloud platforms.

Our primary service offerings are as follows:

Sales Cloud.The Sales Cloud, which we also refer to as the Salesforce1 Sales Cloud, is a popular solution for sales force
automation and it enables companies to grow their sales pipelines, close more deals, improve sales productivity and gain valuable business insights. Our customers use the Sales Cloud to access accurate customer and prospect information, track
leads and progress, forecast opportunities and collaborate around closing a sale on any device. The Sales Cloud also encompasses partner relationship management functionality (including channel management and partner communities) and real-time
customer and contact information.

Service Cloud.The Service Cloud, which we also refer to as the Salesforce1
Service Cloud, is a platform for customer service and it enables companies to connect with their customers and effectively address







Index to Financial Statements

their service and support needs. Our customers use the Service Cloud to connect their customer service agents with customers on a multitude of devices and across every channel—phone, email,
chat, self-service web portals, social networks, online communities and directly within their own products and apps.

Marketing Cloud.The Marketing Cloud, which we also refer to as the Salesforce1 ExactTarget Marketing Cloud, is a customer platform
for one-to-one marketing and it enables companies to bring in data from any source and deliver personalized interactions (digital marketing) to any customer across any channel—email, mobile, social, web, or within their product. By combining
our July 2013 acquisition of ExactTarget with our existing marketing automation solutions, we have created a world-class marketing platform that allows marketers to manage their digital marketing, including email, mobile, social, web, marketing
automation and data analytics, from a single platform. With the Salesforce1 ExactTarget Marketing Cloud, customer data can be routed into the Sales Cloud and Service Cloud in the form of leads, contacts and customer service cases to give companies a
complete view of their customers.

Salesforce1 Platform.The Salesforce1 Platform is a cloud platform for developing
customer apps. Salesforce1 Platform is delivered as a service, enabling anyone to build business apps without the burden of managing hardware and software. Our customers use the Salesforce1 Platform to connect all of their apps, devices and customer
data and make them available on any device. Salesforce1 Platform makes any app social and mobile by providing built-in social networking features, such as profiles, status updates and feeds, as well an interface that is optimized for viewing on
mobile devices. With Salesforce1 Platform, developers, independent software vendors (“ISVs”), admins, employees and customers are able to access all their salesforce apps on any mobile device. Salesforce1 Platform gives customers the
ability to create multiple copies of their organization in separate environments for a variety of purposes, such as testing and training.

Professional Services

We offer consulting, deployment, training, implementation, integration and campaign services to our customers to facilitate the adoption
of our social and mobile cloud solutions. Our professional service engagements can be billed on a time and materials basis or through annual contracts. We offer a number of traditional classroom and online educational classes that address topics
such as deploying, using, administering and developing on our service. We also offer classes for our partners who deploy our service on behalf of our customers. We bill the traditional classroom and some of the online educational classes on a per
person, per class basis. There is a selection of online educational classes available at no charge to customers that subscribe to our service.

Business Benefits of Using Our Solution

The key advantages of our solution include:

Secure, private, scalable and
reliable.Our service has been designed to provide our customers with privacy and high levels of performance, reliability and security. We have built, and continue to invest in, a comprehensive security infrastructure, including
firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and encryption for transmissions over the Internet, which we monitor and test on a regular basis. We built and maintain a multi-tenant application architecture that has been designed to enable our service to
scale securely, reliably and cost-effectively. Our multi-tenant application architecture maintains the integrity and separation of customer data while still permitting all customers to use the same application functionality simultaneously.

Rapid deployment.Our service can be deployed rapidly since our customers do not have to spend time procuring,
installing or maintaining the servers, storage, networking equipment, security products, or other infrastructure hardware and software necessary.

Ease of integration and configuration.IT professionals are able to integrate and configure our solutions with existing applications quickly and seamlessly. We provide a set of application
programming interfaces (“APIs”) that enable customers and independent software developers to both integrate our







Index to Financial Statements

solution with existing third-party, custom, and legacy apps and write their own application services that integrate with our solutions. For example, many of our customers use our Salesforce1 API
to move customer-related data from custom-developed and packaged applications into our service on a periodic basis to provide greater visibility into their activities.

High levels of user adoption.We have designed our solutions to be intuitive and easy to use. Our solutions contain many tools and features recognizable to users of popular consumer web
services, so users are more familiar with our user interface than typical enterprise applications. As a result, our users can often use and gain benefit from our solutions with minimal training.

Rapid development of apps using the Salesforce1 Platform.Our customers and third-party developers can develop apps rapidly
because of the ease of use and the benefits of a multi-tenant platform. We provide the capability for business users to easily customize our applications to suit their specific needs, and also a variety of programming language support so developers
can code complex apps spanning multiple business processes and deliver them to multiple mobile devices.

Increased
innovation.By providing infrastructure and development environments on demand, we provide developers the opportunity to create new and innovative apps without having to invest in hardware and distribution. A developer with an idea for a
new app can log onto our platforms, develop, test and support their system on the Salesforce1 Platform and make the app accessible for a subscription fee to his or her customers.

Lower total cost of ownership.We enable customers to achieve significant up-front savings relative to the traditional
enterprise software model. Customers benefit from the predictability of their future costs since they generally pay for the service on a per subscriber basis for the term of the subscription contract. Because we deploy all upgrades on our servers,
new features and functionality automatically become part of our service on the upgrade release date and therefore benefit all of our customers immediately.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to deliver solutions that help companies
transform the way they sell, service, market and innovate. Not only do we provide enterprise cloud apps, we also provide an enterprise cloud computing platform upon which our customers and partners can build apps.

Key elements of our strategy include:

Strengthening our solutions.We designed our solutions to easily accommodate new features and functionality. We intend to continue to extend our core solutions with new features and functions
and increased security. We also offer advanced editions for an additional subscription fee to customers that require enhanced CRM capabilities. We offer a range of editions to meet our customers CRM requirements. Through our own development,
acquisitions and partnerships, we have strengthened and extended our service offerings. We expect to continue to make such investments in the future.

Extending distribution into new and high-growth categories.As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering innovative solutions in new and high-growth categories, including marketing and
cloud platforms. We are expanding our footprint in these areas to offer new social and mobile cloud innovations to our customers.

Expanding relationships with existing customers.We see a significant opportunity to deepen our relationships with our existing customers. As our customers realize the benefits of our service, we
aim to upgrade the customer to higher priced editions, extend the duration of the customer’s contract and sell more subscriptions by targeting additional functional areas and business units within the customer organization, and ultimately
pursue enterprise-wide deployments.

Pursuing new customers.We believe that our offerings provide significant value for
businesses of any size. As a result, we will continue to aggressively target businesses of all sizes in top industries, primarily







Index to Financial Statements

through our direct sales force. We have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of direct sales professionals we employ, and we intend to develop additional distribution
channels for our service.

Reducing attrition.Our goal is to have all of our customers renew their subscriptions
at the end of their contractual terms. We run customer success and other related programs in an effort to secure renewals of existing customers.

Building our business in top markets globally.We also believe that there is a substantial market opportunity for our service globally. We plan to continue to aggressively market to customers
worldwide in our top global markets by recruiting local sales and support professionals and by building partnerships that help us add customers in the largest enterprise software markets around the world. Additionally, we plan to increase data
center capacity by opening additional data centers in our top global markets.

Encouraging the development of third-party
apps on our cloud computing platforms.The Salesforce1 Platform enables existing customers, ISVs and third-party developers to create and deliver cloud apps they have built on our multi-tenant platform. It is a platform on which apps can be
created, tested, published, and run. In addition, these apps can be marketed and sold on the AppExchange, our online marketplace for business apps, or sold directly by software vendors. We believe our ecosystem of developers and software vendors
will address the business requirements of both current and potential customers.

Technology, Development and Operations

We deliver our service as a highly scalable, multi-tenant app. We use commercially available hardware and a combination of proprietary and
commercially available software to provide our service. We have optimized our service to run on specific databases and operating systems using the tools and platforms best suited to serve our customers rather than providing software that must be
written to different hardware, operating system and database platforms, or that depends upon a customer’s unique systems environment. As part of our business strategy, we periodically acquire companies or technologies, and we incorporate the
acquired technologies into our service while maintaining the quality and security standards that are consistent with our brand and reputation. Performance, functional depth and the usability of our service drive our technology decisions and product
direction.

Our service treats all customers as separate tenants in central applications, databases and other resources. As a
result, we are able to spread the cost of delivering our service across our user base. In addition, because we do not have to manage thousands of distinct applications with their own business logic and database schemas, we believe that we can scale
our business faster than traditional software vendors. Moreover, we can focus our resources on building new functionality to deliver to our customer base as a whole rather than on maintaining an infrastructure to support each of their distinct
applications.

Because of our multi-tenant architecture, we are able to provide all of our customers with a solution based on
a single version of our apps.

Our research and development efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features,
functionality and security of our existing service offerings as well as developing new features, functionality and services. In addition, from time to time we supplement our internal research and development activities with outside development
resources and acquired technology.

Our customers access our service over the Internet via all of the major Internet browsers
and on most major mobile device operating systems.

We provide our services to our customers from third-party data center
hosting facilities located in the United States and other countries.







Index to Financial Statements

Customers

We sell to businesses of all sizes. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our
revenues in fiscal 2014, 2013, or 2012.

Sources of Revenue

We derive our revenues primarily from subscription fees for our service. We also derive revenues from premier support, which provides customers with additional support beyond the standard support that is
included in the basic subscription fee.

We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the contract term,
beginning on the commencement date of each contract. The majority of our professional services contracts are on a time and materials basis, for which we generally recognize revenue as the services are rendered.

Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue
recognition criteria have been met. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services described above and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met.
Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. We generally invoice customers in annual or quarterly installments. Deferred
revenue and unbilled deferred revenue are influenced by several factors, including new business seasonality within the year, the specific timing and duration of large customer subscription agreements, the timing and compounding effects of customer
renewals, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, invoice timing, foreign currency fluctuations and new business linearity within the quarter.

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We organize our sales and marketing
programs by geographic regions, including the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific, which includes Japan. The majority of our revenue from the Americas is attributable to customers in the United States. Approximately 30 percent of our revenue comes
from customers outside of the Americas.

Direct Sales

We sell our services primarily through our direct sales force, which is comprised of telephone sales personnel based in regional hubs, and field sales personnel based in territories close to their
customers. Both our telephone sales and field sales personnel are supported by sales representatives, who are primarily responsible for generating qualified sales leads. Our small business, commercial and enterprise account executives focus their
efforts on small, mid-size and large enterprises, respectively.

Referral and Indirect Sales

We have a network of partners who refer sales leads to us and who then assist in selling to these prospects.

This network includes global consulting firms, systems integrators and regional partners. In return, we typically pay these partners a
fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the customers whom they refer. Also included in this network are ISVs, whom we typically pay a percentage of the subscription revenue generated by their referrals.

We continue to invest in developing additional distribution channels for our subscription service.







Index to Financial Statements

Marketing

Our marketing strategy is to promote our brand and generate demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs across traditional and social channels to target our prospective and current
customers, partners, and developers.

Our primary marketing activities include:



•Press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company, offerings and value proposition;



•User conferences and events, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events, to create customer and prospect awareness;



•Social marketing and engagement on social channels like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube;



•Search engine marketing and advertising to drive traffic to our Web properties;



•Web site development to engage and educate prospects and generate interest through product information and demonstrations, free trials, case studies,
white papers, and marketing collateral;



•Multi-channel marketing campaigns;



•Use of customer testimonials; and



•Sales tools and field marketing events to enable our sales organization to more effectively convert leads into customers.

Customer Service and Support

Our global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries about the use of our products via the web, telephone, email, social networks and other channels. We provide standard
customer support during regular business hours at no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying subscription editions. We also offer premier customer support for an additional fee, which includes services such as priority access to technical
resources, developer support, and/or system administration.

Seasonality

Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. For a more detailed discussion, see the
“Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue and Accounts Receivable” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

Competition

The market
for our offerings is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology, frequent introductions of new products and services, and as we have seen recently, consolidation. Many prospective customers have invested
substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to an enterprise cloud computing application service.
Additionally, third party developers may be reluctant to build application services on our platform since they have invested in other competing technology platforms.

We compete primarily with vendors of packaged business software and companies offering CRM apps. We also compete with internally developed apps and may encounter competition from enterprise software
vendors and online service providers who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new apps that run on the customers’ current infrastructure or as hosted services. Our current principal competitors include:



•enterprise software application vendors;







Index to Financial Statements

•cloud computing application service providers;



•software companies that provide their product or service free of charge, and only charge a premium for advanced features and functionality;



•traditional platform development environment companies; and



•cloud computing development platform companies.

We believe that as traditional enterprise software application and platform vendors shift more of their focus to cloud computing, they will become a greater competitive threat.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as
confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brands and maintain programs to protect and grow our rights. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees,
consultants and other third parties and control access to software, services, documentation and other proprietary information.

Employees

As of January 31, 2014, we had more than 13,300 employees. None of our employees in the United States is represented
by a labor union, however, for certain foreign subsidiaries, workers’ councils represent our employees.

Available Information

You can obtain copies of our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/company/investor/sec-filings/ as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC.
You can also obtain copies free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed above. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company’s references to
the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

