ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are a provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions. We were founded on the simple concept of delivering customer relationship
management, or CRM, applications via the Internet, or “cloud.” We introduced our first CRM solution in February 2000 and we have expanded our offerings with new editions, solutions and enhanced features, through internal development and
acquisitions.

Our mission is to help our customers transform themselves into “customer companies” by empowering
them to connect with their own customers, partners, employees and products in entirely new ways. With our four core services—Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud and the Salesforce Platform—customers have the tools they need to
build a next generation social front office with our social and mobile cloud technologies.

Our products are intuitive and
easy-to-use, can be deployed rapidly, customized easily and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications, or apps. We deliver our solutions as a service via all the major Internet browsers and on most major mobile device operating
systems.

We sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide on a subscription basis, primarily through
our direct sales efforts and also indirectly through partners. Through our platform and other developer tools, we also encourage third parties to develop additional functionality and new apps that run on our platform, which are sold separately from,
or in conjunction with, our service.







We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1999. Our principal executive offices are
located in San Francisco, California and our principal website address is www.salesforce.com. Our office address is The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94105.

The Cloud, Social and Mobile Revolution

We believe that the convergence of cloud, social and mobile technologies is fundamentally transforming how companies connect with their customers, employees, partners and products.

Cloud computing has changed the way enterprise business apps are developed and deployed. Organizations no longer need to buy and maintain
their own infrastructure of servers, storage and development tools in order to create and run business apps. Instead, companies can gain access to a variety of business apps via an Internet browser or mobile device on an as-needed basis, without the
cost and complexity of managing the hardware or software in-house.

The broad shift to social networking and the use of
location aware, touch-based mobile devices in our personal lives have introduced new ways to communicate and collaborate. People now expect to have social and mobile experiences in their professional lives – they want to communicate through
“feeds” and status updates from their phone or tablet, rather than being tethered to a desktop by their business applications. With customers, partners and employees connected and empowered, we believe companies must transform the way they
sell, service, market and innovate.

Our Cloud Solutions

We provide enterprise cloud computing solutions. We offer social and mobile cloud apps and platform services, as well as professional services to facilitate the adoption of our solutions. We provide
solutions in each of our four core markets: sales, customer service, marketing and cloud platforms.

Our primary service
offerings are as follows:

Sales Cloud.The Sales Cloud enables companies to grow their sales pipelines, close more
deals, improve sales productivity and gain valuable business insights. Our customers use the Sales Cloud to access accurate customer and prospect information, track leads and progress, forecast opportunities and collaborate around closing a
sale on any device. The Sales Cloud also encompasses partner relationship management functionality (including channel management and partner portals) and real-time customer and contact information.

Service Cloud.The Service Cloud enables companies to connect with their customers and effectively address their service and
support needs. Our customers use the Service Cloud to connect their customer service agents with customers across every channel: phone, email, chat, self-service web portals, social networks and online communities. In addition, built-in
collaboration tools enable customer service teams to share information on how to better service customers.

Marketing
Cloud.Our customers use the Marketing Cloud to listen to conversations taking place on public social networks like Facebook, Twitter and blogs. They can also publish content to engage with customers across these social networks, as well as to
their own websites. The Marketing Cloud provides sophisticated analytics that enable companies to better identify sales leads and customer service issues, discover advocates, rapidly identify brand, product, or support issues and analyze content
across social networks. Relevant conversations can be routed into the Sales Cloud and Service Cloud in the form of leads, contacts and customer service cases to give companies a complete view of their customers.

The Salesforce Platform.The Salesforce Platform provides the infrastructure and many of the services that application developers
need to build and deliver business apps. The Salesforce Platform is delivered as a service, enabling IT departments and independent software vendors (“ISVs”) to be more efficient, dedicating their time to building apps, rather than
managing hardware and software. With the Salesforce Platform, developers have the freedom to develop apps in many of today’s most popular programming languages, including Java and Ruby. The Salesforce Platform makes any app social and mobile,
providing







social networking features, such as profiles, status updates and feeds; as well as the ability to extend apps to mobile devices.

Professional Services

We offer consulting, deployment and training
services to our customers to facilitate the adoption of our social and mobile cloud solutions. Most of our consulting and deployment engagements are billed on a time and materials basis. We offer a number of traditional classroom and online
educational classes that address topics such as deploying, using, administering and developing on our service. We also offer classes for our partners who deploy our service on behalf of our customers. We bill the traditional classroom and some of
the online educational classes on a per person, per class basis. There is a selection of online educational classes available at no charge to customers that subscribe to our service.

Business Benefits of Using Our Solution

The key advantages of our solution
include:

Secure, private, scalable and reliable. Our service has been designed to provide our customers with privacy
and high levels of performance, reliability and security. We have built, and continue to invest in, a comprehensive security infrastructure, including firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and encryption for transmissions over the Internet, which
we monitor and test on a regular basis. We built and maintain a multi-tenant application architecture that has been designed to enable our service to scale securely, reliably and cost-effectively. Our multi-tenant application architecture maintains
the integrity and separation of customer data while still permitting all customers to use the same application functionality simultaneously.

Rapid deployment.Our service can be deployed rapidly since our customers do not have to spend time procuring, installing or maintaining the servers, storage, networking equipment, security
products, or other infrastructure hardware and software necessary.

Ease of integration.IT professionals are able to
integrate our solutions with existing applications quickly and seamlessly. We provide a set of application programming interfaces (“APIs”) that enable customers and independent software developers to both integrate our solution with
existing third-party, custom, and legacy apps and write their own application services that integrate with our solutions. For example, many of our customers use our Force.com API to move customer-related data from custom-developed and packaged
applications into our service on a periodic basis to provide greater visibility into their activities.

High levels of user
adoption.We have designed our solutions to be intuitive and easy to use. Our solutions contain many tools and features recognizable to users of popular consumer web services, so users are more familiar with our user interface than typical
enterprise applications. As a result, our users can often use and gain benefit from our solutions with minimal training.

Rapid development of apps using the Salesforce Platform.Our customers and third-party developers can develop apps rapidly because
of the ease of use and the benefits of a multi-tenant platform. We provide the capability for business users to easily customize our applications to suit their specific needs, and also a variety of programming language support so developers can code
complex apps spanning multiple business processes and deliver them to multiple mobile devices.

Increased innovation.By
providing infrastructure and development environments on demand, we provide developers the opportunity to create new and innovative apps without having to invest in hardware and distribution. A developer with an idea for a new app can log onto our
platforms, develop, test and support their system on the Salesforce Platform and make the app accessible for a subscription fee to his or her customers.

Lower total cost of ownership.We enable customers to achieve significant up-front savings relative to the traditional enterprise software model. Customers benefit from the predictability of their
future costs since they generally pay for the service on a per subscriber basis for the term of the subscription contract.







Because we deploy all upgrades on our servers, new features and functionality automatically become part of our service on the upgrade release date and therefore benefit all of our customers
immediately.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to deliver solutions that help companies transform the way they sell, service, market and innovate. Not only do we provide enterprise cloud apps, we also provide an enterprise cloud
computing platform upon which our customers and partners can build apps.

Key elements of our strategy include:

Strengthening our market-leading core solutions.We designed our solutions to easily accommodate new features and functions. We
intend to continue to extend our core solutions with new features and functions. We also offer advanced editions for an additional subscription fee to customers that require enhanced CRM capabilities. Through our own development, acquisitions and
partnerships, we have strengthened and extended our Sales Cloud and Service Cloud application offerings. We expect to continue to make such investments in the future.

Innovating in high-growth markets.As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including marketing, collaboration and human capital management. We are
expanding our footprint in these areas to offer new social and mobile cloud innovations to our customers.

Improve renewal
rates.Our goal is to have all of our customers renew their subscriptions at the end of their contractual terms. We run customer success and other related programs in an effort to secure renewals of existing customers.

Deepening relationships with existing customers.We see a significant opportunity to deepen our relationships with our existing
customers. As our customers realize the benefits of our service, we aim to either upgrade the customer to higher priced editions or sell more subscriptions by targeting additional functional areas and business units within the customer organization,
and ultimately pursue enterprise-wide deployments.

Pursuing new customers aggressively.We believe that our offerings
provide significant value for businesses of any size. As a result, we will continue to aggressively target businesses of all sizes, primarily through our direct sales force. We have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of
direct sales professionals we employ, and we intend to develop additional distribution channels for our service.

Building
our business in top markets globally.We also believe that there is a substantial market opportunity for our service globally. We plan to continue to aggressively market to customers worldwide by recruiting local sales and support professionals
and by building partnerships that help us add customers in the largest enterprise software markets around the world.

Encouraging the development of third-party apps on our cloud computing platforms.The Salesforce Platform enables existing
customers, ISVs and third-party developers to create and deliver cloud apps they have built on our multi-tenant platform. It is a platform on which apps can be created, tested, published, and run. In addition, these apps can be marketed and sold on
the AppExchange, our online marketplace for business apps, or sold directly by software vendors. We believe our ecosystem of cloud developers and software vendors will address the business requirements of both current and potential customers.

Technology, Development and Operations

We deliver our service as a highly scalable, multi-tenant app. We use commercially available hardware and a combination of proprietary and commercially available software to provide our service. We have
optimized our service to run on specific databases and operating systems using the tools and platforms best suited to serve our customers rather than providing software that must be written to different hardware, operating system and







database platforms, or that depends upon a customer’s unique systems environment. As part of our business strategy, we periodically acquire companies or technologies, and we incorporate the
acquired technologies into our service while maintaining the quality and security standards that are consistent with our brand and reputation. Performance, functional depth and the usability of our service drive our technology decisions and product
direction.

Our service treats all customers as logically separate tenants in central applications, databases and other
resources. As a result, we are able to spread the cost of delivering our service across our user base. In addition, because we do not have to manage thousands of distinct applications with their own business logic and database schemas, we believe
that we can scale our business faster than traditional software vendors. Moreover, we can focus our resources on building new functionality to deliver to our customer base as a whole rather than on maintaining an infrastructure to support each of
their distinct applications.

Because of our multi-tenant and logically separated architecture, we are able to provide all of
our customers with a solution based on a single version of our apps.

Our research and development efforts are focused on
improving and enhancing the features, functionality and security of our existing service offerings as well as developing new services. In addition, from time to time we supplement our internal research and development activities with outside
development resources and acquired technology.

Our customers access our service over the Internet via all of the major
Internet browsers and on most major mobile device operating systems.

We provide our services to our customers from
third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States and other countries.

Customers

We sell to businesses of all sizes. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands.
None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues in fiscal 2013, 2012, or 2011.

Sources of Revenue

We derive our revenues primarily from subscription fees for our service. We also derive revenues from premier support,
which provides customers with additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fee.

We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the contract term, beginning on the commencement date of each contract. The
majority of our professional services contracts are on a time and materials basis, for which we generally recognize revenue as the services are rendered.

Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Deferred revenue primarily
consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services described above and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our
subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. We generally invoice customers in annual or quarterly installments. Deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue are influenced by several
factors, including new business seasonality within the year, the specific timing and duration of large customer subscription agreements, the timing and compounding effects of customer renewals, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements,
invoice timing, foreign currency fluctuations and new business linearity within the quarter.







Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We organize our sales and marketing programs by geographic regions, including the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific, which includes
Japan. The majority of our revenue from the Americas is attributable to customers in the United States. Approximately 30 percent of our revenue comes from customers outside of the Americas.

Direct Sales

We sell our services primarily through our direct sales
force, which is comprised of telephone sales personnel based in regional hubs, and field sales personnel based in territories close to their customers. Both our telephone sales and field sales personnel are supported by sales representatives, who
are primarily responsible for generating qualified sales leads. Our small business, commercial and enterprise account executives focus their efforts on small, mid-size and large enterprises, respectively.

Referral and Indirect Sales

We have a network of partners who refer sales leads to us and who then assist in selling to these prospects.

This network includes global consulting firms, systems integrators and regional partners. In return, we typically pay these partners a fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the
customers whom they refer. Also included in this network are ISVs, whom we typically pay a percentage of the subscription revenue generated by their referrals.

We continue to invest in developing additional distribution channels for our subscription service.

Marketing

Our marketing
strategy is to promote our brand and generate demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs across traditional and social channels to target our prospective and current customers, partners, and developers.

Our primary marketing activities include:



•Press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company, offerings and value proposition;



•User conferences and events, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events, to create customer and prospect awareness;



•Social marketing and engagement on social channels like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube;



•Search engine marketing and advertising to drive traffic to our Web properties;



•Web site development to engage and educate prospects and generate interest through product information and demonstrations, free trials, case studies,
white papers, and marketing collateral;



•Multi-channel marketing campaigns;



•Use of customer testimonials; and



•Sales tools and field marketing events to enable our sales organization to more effectively convert leads into customers.

Customer Service and Support

Our global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries about the use of our products via the web, telephone, email, social networks and other channels. We provide standard
customer support during regular business hours at no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying subscription editions. We also offer premier customer support for an additional fee, which includes services such as priority access to technical
resources, developer support, and/or system administration.







Seasonality

Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue and Accounts
Receivable” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

Competition

The market for our offerings is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology, frequent
introductions of new products and services, and as we have seen recently, consolidation. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate traditional enterprise software into their
businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to an enterprise cloud computing application service. Additionally, third party developers may be reluctant to build application services on our platform since they have invested in
other competing technology platforms.

We compete primarily with vendors of packaged business software and companies offering
CRM apps. We also compete with internally developed apps and may encounter competition from enterprise software vendors and online service providers who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new apps that run on the
customers’ current infrastructure or as hosted services. Our current principal competitors include:



•enterprise software application vendors;



•cloud computing application service providers;



•software companies that provide their product or service free of charge, and only charge a premium for advanced features and functionality;



•traditional platform development environment companies; and



•cloud computing development platform companies.

We believe that as traditional enterprise software application and platform vendors shift more of their focus to cloud computing, they will become a greater competitive threat.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as
confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control
access to software, documentation and other proprietary information.

Employees

As of January 31, 2013, we had 9,800 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union.

Available Information

You can obtain copies of our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and
all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/company/investor/sec-filings/ as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. You can also obtain copies free
of charge by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed above. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580,
Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC







at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at
www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company’s references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

