ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing and social enterprise solutions, and are dedicated to helping customers transform
themselves into social enterprises. Social enterprises leverage social, mobile and open technologies to engage and collaborate with their customers and employees in new and powerful ways. Our technologies are targeted at businesses of all sizes and
industries worldwide.

We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1999, and founded on the simple concept of delivering
customer relationship management, or “CRM”, applications via the Internet or “cloud.” Cloud computing refers to the use of Internet-based computing, storage and connectivity technology to deliver a variety of different services.
We introduced our first CRM service in February 2000. Since then, primarily through development and to a lesser extent acquisition, we have augmented our CRM service with new editions, services and enhanced features. In recent years, we have seen a
broad shift in the information technology (“IT”) industry to social networking and the use of mobile devices. Industry analysts describe how social networking users have surpassed the total number of email users, how consumers are spending
the majority of their time on the Internet using social websites, and how more people are browsing the Internet on mobile devices than on desktop computers. In fiscal 2012, to address this shift to social networking, we began to describe to
companies of all sizes the benefits of becoming a social enterprise and how our service offerings could accelerate their transformation into becoming a social enterprise.







We have designed, developed and acquired applications and platforms that are easy-to-use and
intuitive, that can be deployed rapidly, customized easily and integrated with other enterprise applications or platforms. We deliver our service through all of the market-leading Internet browsers and mobile devices. Customers who use our social
enterprise applications and platforms are able to avoid much of the expense and complexity of traditional enterprise software development and implementations. As a result, our customers face less risk and lower upfront implementation and ongoing
costs, and benefit from increased productivity and efficiency.

We market our social enterprise applications and platforms to
businesses on a subscription basis, primarily through our direct sales efforts and to a lesser extent indirectly through partners. Through our platforms and other developer tools, we also encourage third parties to develop additional functionality
and new applications that run on our platforms, but which are sold separately from, or in conjunction with, our social enterprise solution.

Our principal executive offices are located in San Francisco, California and our principal website address iswww.salesforce.com. Our office address is The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300, San
Francisco, California 94105.

Cloud Computing

Cloud computing changes the way enterprise business applications are developed and deployed. Application developers no longer need to create and manage their own infrastructure of servers, storage,
network devices, operating system software and development tools in order to create a business application. Instead, the entire infrastructure is managed by third parties who specialize in infrastructure management, and developers simply use an
Internet browser to access the development environment. Application users can gain access to a variety of business applications via an Internet browser or mobile device on an as-needed basis, and are able to take advantage of a robust, secure,
scalable and highly available application, with few or no implementation services required and without the cost and complexity of managing the hardware or software infrastructure in-house.

Historically, only large businesses could afford to make investments in enterprise resource planning, and sales, marketing and service
applications to gain an enterprise-wide view of business information and automate and improve basic processes. Today, cloud applications are available to businesses of all sizes and across all industries because third parties manage the
infrastructure. Our vision of enterprise cloud computing is based on a multi-tenant technology architecture, which enables cloud vendors like us to leverage a common infrastructure and software code base across all of our customers who benefit from
access to the most current release of an application, periodic upgrades, more rapid innovation and the economies of a shared infrastructure.

In recent years, we have seen a shift from traditional enterprise software to enterprise cloud computing. We believe this shift to cloud computing provides significant benefits even beyond those
associated with multi-tenant infrastructure. Businesses are able to realize many of the benefits offered by traditional enterprise software vendors, such as a comprehensive set of features and functionality and the ability to customize and integrate
with other applications, while at the same time reducing the risks and lowering the total costs associated with owning enterprise software. As a result, we believe the continued emergence of cloud applications is bringing about a fundamental
transformation in the enterprise software industry as businesses are offered the choice of replacing their purchased software with subscriptions to a wide range of application services.

We believe that cloud applications and their related success in the market are the most widely understood segment of enterprise cloud
computing. However, enterprise cloud computing also includes building new applications on a cloud-based application development platform, also referred to as cloud platforms.

Application developers use cloud platform technology to build both custom applications for individual businesses or vertical industries, and horizontal applications to address standard business processes
that can be sold to a broad range of potential customers. Application developers include corporate IT departments that typically develop applications for a company’s internal-use and independent software vendors (“ISVs”) that develop
applications to sell to customers. Traditionally, these developers have needed to purchase, install, test







and maintain complex software and hardware infrastructure to develop and deliver their applications. This requirement resulted in more time and resources being spent maintaining infrastructure
and less time and resources being available to develop applications, with a resulting reduction in innovation and productivity levels.

Cloud platforms enable corporate IT developers and ISVs to leverage the benefits of a multi-tenant platform for developing new applications. Cloud platforms allow developers to build applications using
only a browser and an Internet connection, just as cloud applications allow users to use applications through a browser. In addition, developers typically pay no upfront costs when building cloud applications, with costs only to be incurred at the
point of application deployment.

The Social Enterprise

We believe that the next phase of cloud computing is again transforming enterprise software. Driven by the consumerization of IT, the next phase of cloud computing will have three key characteristics
– it will be social, mobile and open. With the popularity of social networking websites, new ways to communicate and collaborate based on feeds and status updates have emerged. In the enterprise market, that means enabling employees, customers
and partners to easily find, share and collaborate around information and business processes. In addition, with the wide adoption of mobile phones and tablets, customers now expect cloud computing technologies to work on these devices, fully
leveraging functionality such as touch-screens, regardless of the carrier or operating system. Customers are increasingly focused on open standards, which enable developers to easily integrate our solution with applications and technology from other
vendors, and we offer a Web services application programming interface (“API”) for programmatic access and integration. We call this the social enterprise, and we help our customers embrace the opportunities and meet the challenges it
poses to businesses. We believe that companies must change the way they collaborate, communicate and share information with customers, employees and partners to stay competitive.

Our solution helps companies transform themselves into social enterprises by:



•Creating customer social profiles: As users continue to adopt social technologies in their personal lives, they are coming to expect the same
experience, communication features and benefits from business applications. Users want the business equivalents of “liking” on Facebook, “tweeting” on Twitter, and “connecting” on LinkedIn. In the social enterprise, a
social customer profile captures all of this publicly available information, empowering every employee to support customers by knowing who they are and delivering a new and comprehensive level of service and experience.



•Creating employee social networks: Many companies struggle to connect their employees with the best information and experts within their own
company. Utilizing social features popularized by Facebook and Twitter – such as profiles, status updates and real-time feeds – employees can “follow” documents, people, business processes and application data. As a result,
information is delivered directly to users, rather than making them search for it themselves. Companies can build private employee social networks that help employees rapidly collaborate across their company so they can engage, sell and service
customers more effectively.



•Creating customer social networks: Customer social networks allow companies to build stronger relationships with their customers on today’s
most popular social channels. Companies can listen to, engage with and analyze what people are saying about them and create applications through which customers can interact with their brand. These applications utilize social and mobile technology,
can be location-aware, and can be accessed from any device.



•Product and partner social networks: In addition to customer social networks, social enterprises can also bring their products and partners into
these networks. For example, businesses can provide real-time information to their customers about products, such as service needs or updates. In addition,







partners are able to connect directly with customers through the same channels, thereby providing a consistent customer user experience.

Our solution is comprised of cloud applications and cloud platforms, as well as professional services to facilitate the adoption of our
solution.

Our Cloud Applications for the Social Enterprise

We are a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing services, and are dedicated to helping customers transform themselves into social
enterprises with our applications. Our primary applications are within our Sales Cloud and Service Cloud brands, but the combination of all the applications below allows our customers to transform themselves by connecting, engaging, selling,
servicing, and collaborating with customers as well as improving internal automation and collaboration. Our primary applications are as follows:



•Sales Cloud.The sales force automation features of our CRM application services are marketed under our Sales Cloud brand and focus on
allowing our customers to better connect and sell to their customers. Through the Sales Cloud, users are able to be more productive through the automation of manual and repetitive tasks and access to better and more organized data about their
current customers and prospects. Our customers are also able to establish a system and process for recording, tracking, and sharing information about sales opportunities, sales leads, sales forecasts, the sales process, and closed business, as well
as managing sales territories. Customers are able to create social profiles of their customers, based on information from social networking services like Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. Our customers are also better able to manage unstructured
information such as sales collateral, presentations, price lists, and video assets. In addition, the Sales Cloud encompasses partner relationship management functionality (including channel management and partner portals) and marketing automation
(including campaigns, and return-on-investment tracking).



•Service Cloud.Our customer service and support automation features are marketed under our Service Cloud brand and allow our customers to
better service and engage with their customers. Through the Service Cloud, companies are able to maintain better relationships with their existing customers and more efficiently address a variety of service and support needs, such as advice about
products and services, requests for repairs, complaints about faulty goods, and the need for additional goods and services. Using the Service Cloud, companies can access a comprehensive solution for their customer service interactions across every
service channel: call centers with phone, email, and chat; Web portals for self-service and customer collaboration; and community interactions within social networks. In addition, built-in collaboration tools enable customer service agents to share
information on how to better service customers.



•Salesforce Chatter.Our Chatter application enables customers to create private employee social networks for companies of all sizes in
order to improve employee collaboration. For current customers of our Sales and Service Cloud editions, Chatter is included free for all subscribers. In addition, we offer Chatter Plus edition, designed to provide access to Chatter for employees in
customers’ organizations who are not current subscribers of a Sales or Service Cloud edition. We recently delivered new features, including Chatter Now for real-time collaboration, and Chatter Customer Groups enabling users to invite people
outside their organizations, such as customers and partners, into their Chatter network to collaborate in a secure environment. Chatter is a core attribute of our Force.com platform and its social capabilities are an integral part of each of our
application offerings and our Social Enterprise solution.



•Salesforce Radian6.Our Radian6 application provides our customers a tool for social media monitoring and marketing. The application
allows companies to listen, analyze, engage and measure their brand’s presence within social media. As a result, companies can better service their customers by listening to what their customers are saying about their brand online, and
interacting and influencing conversations in real-time. For example, companies are able to measure the effectiveness of marketing







campaigns, respond quickly and effectively in times of crisis, or even generate new customer leads through integration with our sales and service cloud applications.



•Salesforce Data.com.We provide companies with a database of high-quality business contacts, company profiles and social insights.
Delivered as a service, data.com integrates with our applications to provide the business data that helps companies increase their pipeline of sales leads and to improve engagement with existing customers.

Our Cloud Platforms for the Social Enterprise

Our cloud platforms provide application developers access to new capabilities that can be built into their business applications. These platforms include features popularized by social networking
companies, such as profiles, status updates and feeds; and also the capability to extend applications for use on mobile devices. In addition, they run on our Database.com offering, an open enterprise database built for social and mobile computing.

Our cloud platforms allow both IT departments and ISV developers to use several programming languages to build their
applications. Developers are able to use the most popular programming languages on our cloud platforms, such as Java and Ruby, to build their applications, and our cloud platforms support multiple other languages to provide developers openness and
choice.

We have two platform offerings: Force.com and Heroku, and offer additional developer tools such as Database.com and
the AppExchange. The details of these offerings are as follows:



•The Force.com Platform.The Force.com cloud computing platform provides a feature set and technology environment for building
business applications, including data models and objects to manage data, a workflow engine for managing collaboration of data between users, a user interface model to handle forms and other interactions, and a Web services API for programmatic
access and integration. The Force.com platform provides the tools and infrastructure required to:



•deploy our applications;



•customize and integrate existing enterprise software applications;



•create and deploy new business applications that are pre-integrated with our service and leverage the same user interface or customize the user
interface specific to customer requirements; and



•sample and deploy applications built by third parties from the AppExchange.



•Heroku Platform.Heroku is a leading cloud platform for application developers to build and deploy social and mobile applications.
Built on open standards, Heroku supports multiple frameworks, databases, and languages—including Java and Ruby. Most application developers choose to build applications on Heroku because they can utilize their existing skillsets. And, because
it is delivered as a service, application developers can be more efficient, dedicating their time to writing code, not managing servers and application deployment.



•Database.com.In 2010, we opened the multi-tenant database that underlies the Sales Cloud and Service Cloud applications to
application developers so that they can more easily architect and build new mobile and social applications in the cloud. The service is open so it can be accessed using any language, any platform and any device. Database.com provides the
functionality of a modern database, which must accommodate mobile devices and data generated by social media tools.



•The AppExchange.The AppExchange is an online directory that provides customers a way to browse, sample, share, and install applications
developed on our Force.com platform. Partners and developers can offer their applications and services for a fee on the AppExchange directory. This directory gives our users a way to find and install applications to expand their use of the Force.com
platform to areas that are complementary to our social enterprise solution.







Professional Services

We offer consulting, deployment and training services to our customers to facilitate the adoption of our social enterprise services. We
expanded our ability to provide these services to our customers in our acquisition of Model Metrics in December 2011. Consulting services consist of services such as business process mapping, project management services and guidance on best
practices in using our service. Deployment services include systems integration, technical architecture and development, configuration and data conversion as well as developing and delivering customized education programs for our customers. Most of
our consulting and deployment engagements are billed on a time and materials basis. We offer a number of traditional classroom and online educational classes that address topics such as deploying, using, administering and developing on our service.
We also offer classes for our partners who deploy our service on behalf of our customers. We bill the traditional classroom and some of the online educational classes on a per person, per class basis. There is a selection of online educational
classes available at no charge to customers that subscribe to our service.

As the reach of our enterprise cloud computing
services has grown, partners and other third-party consulting and professional service providers play an integral part in providing these services to our customers.

Business Benefits of Using Our Solution

The key advantages of our solution
include:



•Secure, private, scalable and reliable delivery platform.The delivery platform for our service has been designed to provide our customers with
privacy and high levels of performance, reliability, and security. We have built, and continue to invest in, a comprehensive security infrastructure, including firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and encryption for transmissions over the
Internet, which we monitor and test on a regular basis. We built and maintain a multi-tenant application architecture that has been designed to enable our service to scale securely, reliably, and cost-effectively. Our multi-tenant application
architecture maintains the integrity and separation of customer data while still permitting all customers to use the same application functionality simultaneously.



•Rapid deployment.Our service can be deployed rapidly since our customers do not have to spend time procuring, installing or maintaining the
servers, storage, networking equipment, security products, or other infrastructure hardware and software necessary to ensure a scalable and reliable service.



•Ease of integration.Our platforms are designed to enable IT professionals to integrate our service with existing applications quickly and
seamlessly. Our platforms provide a set of APIs that enable customers and independent software developers to both integrate our service with existing third-party, custom, and legacy applications and write their own application services that
integrate with our service. For example, many of our customers use the Force.com API to move customer-related data from custom-developed and legacy applications into our service on a periodic basis to provide greater visibility into their
activities.



•High levels of user adoption. We have designed our service to be intuitive and easy to use. Since our service contains many tools and features
recognizable to users of popular websites such as those of Amazon, Facebook, Google and Twitter, it has a more familiar user interface than typical enterprise applications. As a result, our users do not require substantial training on how to use and
benefit from our service.



•Rapid development of applications using the Force.com and Heroku platforms. Our customers and third-party developers can develop applications
rapidly because of the ease of use and the benefits of a multi-tenant platform. We provide the capability for business users to easily customize our applications to suit their specific needs, and also a variety of programming language support so
developers can code complex applications spanning multiple business processes and deliver them to multiple mobile devices.







•Increasing innovation.By providing infrastructure and development environments on demand, we provide developers the opportunity to create new
and innovative applications without having to invest in hardware and distribution. A developer with an idea for a new application can log on to our platforms, develop, test and support their system on Force.com or Heroku and make the application
accessible for a fee to our customers.



•Lower total cost of ownership.We enable customers to achieve significant upfront savings relative to the traditional enterprise software model.
Customers benefit from the predictability of their future costs since they pay for the service on a per subscriber basis for the term of the subscription contract. All upgrades are included in our service, so customers are not burdened or disrupted
by the periodic need to perform system upgrades. Because we deploy all upgrades on our servers, new features and functionality automatically become part of our service on the release date and therefore benefit all of our customers immediately.

Our Go-To-Market Strategy

Our objective is to help companies put customers and employees at the center of their businesses and transform themselves into social enterprises by the use of our applications and platforms. Not only do
we want to be the leading provider of the social enterprise solution, we also want to offer additional social applications and have the leading cloud computing platforms upon which our customers and partners build applications.

Key elements of our strategy include:



•Strengthening our existing Sales Cloud and Service Cloud applications and extending into new functional areas within the social enterprise.We
designed our service to easily accommodate new features and functions. We intend to continue to add features and functions to our core service that we will make available to customers at no additional charge. We offer advanced editions for an
additional subscription fee to customers that require enhanced CRM capabilities. We have a growing portfolio of cloud applications that serve different customer segments and markets. We have acquired several companies in complementary businesses,
entered joint ventures and added services and technologies in an effort to strengthen and extend our Sales Cloud and Service Cloud application offerings. We expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future.



•Leading the industry transformation to the social enterprise. We believe that the market transformation to cloud applications and platforms
continues to be a growing trend in the information technology industry and that the next generation of enterprise computing is what we call the social enterprise. We believe the world is experiencing a social revolution. The number of social
networking users has surpassed e-mail users, and people access the Internet more from mobile devices than from desktops. A core component of our business strategy is to enable companies to transform themselves into social enterprises through the use
of our services.



•Pursuing new customers and new territories aggressively.We believe that our social enterprise solution, cloud applications and cloud platforms
provide significant value for businesses of any size. As a result, we will continue to aggressively target businesses of all sizes, primarily through our direct sales force. We have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of
direct sales professionals we employ, and we intend to develop additional distribution channels for our service. We have created several editions of our service to address the distinct requirements of businesses of different sizes. We also believe
that there is a substantial market opportunity for our service outside of North America. We plan to continue to aggressively market to customers outside of North America by recruiting local sales and support professionals and by building
partnerships that help us add customers in these regions.



•Deepening relationships with our existing customer base.We believe there is significant opportunity to deepen our relationships with existing
customers. As our customers realize the benefits of our service, we aim to either upgrade the customer to higher priced editions or sell more subscriptions by targeting







additional functional areas and business units within the customer organization, and ultimately pursue enterprise-wide deployments. Our goal is to have our customers renew their subscriptions at
the end of their contractual terms and we run customer success and other programs in an effort to secure renewals of existing customers.



•Encouraging the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platforms. Our Force.com and Heroku cloud computing platform
enables existing customers, ISVs and third-party developers to develop and deliver cloud applications they have built in our multi-tenant environment. It is a platform on which applications can be created, tested, published, and run. In addition,
these applications can be listed on the AppExchange, our online marketplace of cloud applications, or sold by ISVs. We believe the ecosystem of cloud developers and ISVs will address the business requirements of both current and potential customers.

Technology, Development and Operations

We deliver our service as a highly scalable, multi-tenant application. We use commercially available hardware and a combination of proprietary and commercially available software to provide our service.
We have optimized our services to run on specific databases and operating systems using the tools and platforms best suited to serve our customers rather than providing software that must be written to different hardware, operating system and
database platforms, or that depends upon a customer’s unique systems environment. Performance, functional depth and the usability of our service drive our technology decisions and product direction.

Our service treats all customers as logically separate tenants in central applications, databases and other resources. As a result, we
are able to spread the cost of delivering our service across our user base. In addition, because we do not have to manage thousands of distinct applications with their own business logic and database schemas, we believe that we can scale our
business faster than traditional software vendors. Moreover, we can focus our resources on building new functionality to deliver to our customer base as a whole rather than on maintaining an infrastructure to support each of their distinct
applications.

Because of our multi-tenant and logically separated architecture, we are able to provide all of our customers
with a service based on a single version of our applications. We are able to upgrade all of our customers at the same time with each release. As a result, we do not have to maintain multiple versions of our applications.

Our research and development efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features, functionality and security of our existing
service offerings as well as developing new services. In addition, from time to time we supplement our internal research and development activities with outside development resources and acquired technology.

Our customers access our service over the Internet through supported Internet browsers and mobile devices.

We currently serve our customers from third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States and other countries.

Customers

We sell to businesses of all sizes. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands.
None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues in fiscal 2012, 2011, or 2010.

Sources of Revenue

We derive our revenues primarily from subscription fees from our customers and support revenues from customers purchasing
additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fee.









We generally recognize revenue ratably over the contract term, beginning on the commencement
date of each contract. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met.

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We organize our sales and marketing programs by geographic regions, including the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific which includes Japan. Over 30 percent of our revenue comes from customers outside of
the Americas.

Direct Sales

We sell subscriptions to our service primarily through our direct sales force comprised of inside sales, which consists of personnel that sell to customers primarily by phone, and field sales personnel,
that are primarily based in geographic territories comprising customers and prospects. Both our inside sales and field sales personnel are supported by telesales representatives who are primarily responsible for generating qualifying leads. Our
small business, general business and enterprise account executives and account managers focus their efforts on small, medium-size and large enterprises, respectively.

Referral and Indirect Sales

We have a network of partners who refer
customer prospects to us and assist us in selling to these prospects.

The network includes consulting firms, other technology
vendors, systems integrators and partners in markets where we do not have a large direct sales presence. In return, we typically pay these partners a fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the customers they refer. We expense
these fees at the time the customer signs the subscription service contract.

We also continue to develop distribution
channels for our subscription service.

Marketing

Our marketing strategy is to promote our brand and generate significant demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs
to target our prospective and current customers, partners, and developers.

Our primary marketing activities include:



•press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company and product strategy;



•user conferences and launch events, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events, to create customer awareness and prospect enthusiasm;



•use of social network solutions such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube;



•search engine marketing and advertising to drive traffic to our Web properties;



•Web site development to engage and educate prospects and generate interest through product information and demonstrations, free trials, case studies,
white papers, and marketing collateral;



•email, direct mail, and phone campaigns to capture leads that can be funneled into our sales organization;



•use of customer testimonials; and



•sales tools and field marketing events to enable our sales organization to more effectively convert pipeline into completed transactions.







Customer Service and Support

Our global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquires from our customers relating to how to use our products
and is available to customers by the web, telephone and email.

Basic customer support during business hours is available at
no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying editions. Premier customer support includes extended availability and additional services, such as an assigned support representative and/or administrator. Premier customer support is
available for a separate fee, or is included in our Unlimited Edition. Additional support services include developer support and partner support.

Seasonality

Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest
quarter for new business. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue and Accounts Receivable” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

Competition

The market
for our offerings is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology, frequent introductions of new products and services, and as we have seen recently, consolidation. Many prospective customers have invested
substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to an enterprise cloud computing application service.
Additionally, third party developers may be reluctant to build application services on our platform since they have invested in other competing technology platforms.

We compete primarily with vendors of packaged business software and companies offering cloud computing CRM applications. We also compete with internally developed applications and face, or expect to face,
competition from enterprise software vendors and online service providers who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new applications that run on the customers’ current infrastructure or as hosted services. Our current
principal competitors include:



•enterprise software application vendors;



•cloud computing CRM application service providers;



•traditional platform development environment companies; and



•cloud computing development platform companies.

We believe that as enterprise software application and platform vendors shift more of their focus to cloud computing, they will be a greater competitive threat.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as
confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control
access to software, documentation and other proprietary information.

Employees

As of January 31, 2012, we had 7,785 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union.







Available Information

You can obtain copies of our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our Web site
athttp://www.salesforce.com/company/investor/sec-filings/as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. You can also obtain copies free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations department
at our office address listed above. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company’s references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.







