Item 1.BUSINESS



(a)General Development of Business



Hormel Foods Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Company), was founded by George A. Hormel in 1891 in Austin, Minnesota, as Geo. A. Hormel & Company.  The Company started as a processor of meat and food products and continues in this line of business.  The Company’s name was changed to Hormel Foods Corporation on January 31, 1995.  The Company is primarily engaged in the production of a variety of meat and food products and the marketing of those products throughout the United States and internationally.  Although pork and turkey remain the major raw materials for its products, the Company has emphasized for several years the manufacturing and distribution of branded, value-added consumer items rather than the commodity fresh meat business.  The Company has continually expanded its product portfolio through organic growth, new product development, and acquisitions.



Internationally, the Company markets its products through Hormel Foods International Corporation (HFIC), a wholly owned subsidiary.  HFIC has a presence in the international marketplace through joint ventures and placement of personnel in strategic foreign locations such as Australia, Canada, China, Japan, and the Philippines.  HFIC also has a global presence with minority positions in food companies in Mexico (Hormel Alimentos, S.A. de C.V., 50% holding) and the Philippines (The Purefoods-Hormel Company, Inc., 40% holding), and in a hog production and processing operation in Vietnam (San Miguel Hormel (VN) Co. Ltd., 49% holding).



The Company has not been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership, or similar proceedings during its history.  Substantially all the assets of the Company have been acquired in the ordinary course of business.



On August 11, 2014, the Company acquired CytoSport Holdings, Inc. of Benicia, California for a preliminary purchase price of $424.3 million in cash.  The purchase price is preliminary pending final working capital and other purchase accounting adjustments, and was funded by the Company with cash on hand and by utilizing funds from its revolving line of credit.  The agreement provides for a potential additional payment of up to $20.0 million subject to meeting specific financial performance criteria over the next two years.



On November 26, 2013, the Company acquired the China basedSKIPPY®peanut butter business from Conopco, Inc. (doing business as Unilever United States Inc.), of Englewood Cliffs, N.J. for a final purchase price of $41.9 million in cash.  This acquisition included the Weifang, China manufacturing facility and all sales in Mainland China.  The purchase price was funded by the Company with cash on hand.



The Company had no other significant change in the type of products produced or services rendered, or in the markets or methods of distribution since the beginning of the 2014 fiscal year.



(b)Segments



The Company’s business is reported in five segments: Grocery Products, Refrigerated Foods, Jennie-O Turkey Store (JOTS), Specialty Foods, and International & Other.  The International & Other segment was previously the All Other segment, and was renamed in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, with no change in the composition of the segment.  Net sales to unaffiliated customers, operating profit, total assets, and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment, are reported in Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Annual Stockholder’s Report for the fiscal year ended October 26, 2014, incorporated herein by reference.











(c)Description of Business



Products and Distribution



The Company’s products primarily consist of meat and other food products.  The meat products are sold fresh, frozen, cured, smoked, cooked, and canned.  The percentages of total revenues contributed by classes of similar products for the last three fiscal years are as follows:



Fiscal Year EndedOctober 26, 2014October 27, 2013October 28, 2012Perishable54.5%53.3%54.7%Shelf-stable19.019.016.4Poultry18.418.819.3Other8.18.99.6100.0%100.0%100.0%



Reporting of revenues from external customers is based on similarity of products, as the same or similar products are sold across multiple distribution channels such as retail, foodservice, or international.  Revenues reported are based on financial information used to produce the Company’s general-purpose financial statements.



The Perishable category includes fresh meats, frozen items, refrigerated meal solutions, sausages, hams, wieners, and bacon (excluding JOTS products).  Shelf-stable includes canned luncheon meats, shelf-stable microwaveable meals, stews, chilies, hash, meat spreads, flour and corn tortillas, salsas, tortilla chips, peanut butter, and other items that do not require refrigeration.   The Poultry category is composed primarily of JOTS products.  The Other category primarily consists of nutritional food products and supplements, sugar and sugar substitutes, dessert and drink mixes, and industrial gelatin products.



Domestically, the Company sells its products in all 50 states.  The Company’s products are sold through its sales personnel, operating in assigned territories or as dedicated teams serving major customers, coordinated from sales offices located in most of the larger U.S. cities. The Company also utilizes independent brokers and distributors.  As of October 26, 2014, the Company had approximately 790 sales personnel engaged in selling its products.  Distribution of products to customers is primarily by common carrier.



Through HFIC, the Company markets its products in various locations throughout the world.  Some of the larger markets include Australia, Canada, China, England, Japan, Mexico, Micronesia, the Philippines, Singapore, and South Korea.  The distribution of export sales to customers is by common carrier, while the China operations own and operate their own delivery system.  The Company, through HFIC, has licensed companies to manufacture various Company products internationally on a royalty basis, with the primary licensees being Tulip International of Denmark and CJ CheilJedang Corporation of South Korea.



Raw Materials



The Company has, for the past several years, been concentrating on processed branded products for consumers with year-round demand to minimize the seasonal variation experienced with commodity-type products.  Pork continues to be the primary raw material for Company products.  Although the live pork industry has evolved to large, vertically integrated, year-round operations, and supply contracts have become prevalent in the industry, there is still a seasonal variation in the supply of fresh pork materials.  The Company’s expanding line of processed items has reduced, but not eliminated, the sensitivity of Company results to raw material supply and price fluctuations.



The majority of the hogs harvested by the Company are purchased under supply contracts from producers located principally in California, Colorado, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, and Wisconsin.  The cost of hogs and the utilization of the Company’s facilities are affected by both the level and the methods of pork production in the United States.  The movement toward larger operations, which operate under supply agreements with processors, has resulted in fewer hogs being available on the spot cash market.  The Company, like others in the industry, uses supply contracts to manage the effects of this trend and to ensure a stable supply of raw materials.  The Company’s contracts are based on market-based formulas and/or the cost of production, to better balance input costs with customer pricing, and all contract costs are fully reflected in the Company’s reported financial statements.  In fiscal 2014, the Company purchased 94 percent of its hogs under supply contracts.  The Company also procures a portion of its hogs through farms that it either owns or operates in Arizona, California, Colorado, Kansas, and Wyoming.



In fiscal 2014, JOTS raised turkeys representing approximately 78 percent of the volume needed to meet its raw material requirements for whole bird and processed turkey products.  Turkeys not sourced within the Company are contracted with











independent turkey growers.  JOTS’ turkey-raising farms are located throughout Minnesota and Wisconsin.



Production costs in raising hogs and turkeys are subject primarily to fluctuations in feed grain prices and, to a lesser extent, fuel costs.  To manage this risk, the Company hedges a portion of its anticipated purchases of grain using futures contracts.



Manufacturing



The Company has three plants that harvest hogs for processing.  Quality Pork Processors, Inc. of Dallas, Texas, operates the harvesting facility at Austin, Minnesota, under a custom harvesting arrangement.  The Company currently has seven turkey harvest and processing operations, and 37 facilities that produce and distribute other manufactured items.  Albert Lea Select Foods, Inc. operates the processing facility at Albert Lea, Minnesota, under a custom manufacturing agreement.  Company products are also custom manufactured by several other companies.  The following are the Company’s larger custom manufacturers: Abbyland Foods, Inc., Abbotsford, Wisconsin; Agropur Division Natrel USA, Maplewood, Minnesota; Algood Food Company, Louisville, Kentucky; Cloverleaf Cold Storage, Sioux City, Iowa; Lakeside Packing Company, Manitowoc, Wisconsin; Mrs. Clark’s Foods, Ankeny, Iowa; OSI Industries LLC, Chicago, Illinois; Power Packaging, St. Charles, Illinois; Reichel Foods, Inc., Rochester, Minnesota; Reser’s Fine Foods, Topeka, Kansas; and Steuben Foods, Jamaica, New York.  Exel, Inc., based in Westerville, Ohio, operates distribution centers for the Company in Dayton, Ohio, and Osceola, Iowa.



Patents and Trademarks



There are numerous patents and trademarks that are important to the Company’s business.  The Company holds 53 U.S.-issued and 17 foreign patents.  Most of the trademarks are registered.  Some of the more significant owned or licensed trademarks used by the Company or its affiliates are:



HORMEL, ALWAYS TENDER, AMERICAN CLASSICS, AUSTIN BLUES, BLACK LABEL, BREAD READY, BÚFALO, CAFÉ H, CALIFORNIA NATURAL, CHI-CHI’S, COMPLEATS, COUNTRY CROCK, CURE 81, CUREMASTER, CYTOSPORT, DAN’S PRIZE, DI LUSSO, DINTY MOORE, DODGER DOG, DON MIGUEL, DOÑA MARIA, DUBUQUE, EMBASA, ESSENCE C, FARMER JOHN, FAST ‘N EASY, FIRE BRAISED, HERB-OX, HERDEZ, HIBACHI GRILL, HOMELAND, HOUSE OF TSANG, JENNIE-O, JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE, KID’S KITCHEN, LA VICTORIA, LAYOUT, LITTLE SIZZLERS, LLOYD’S, MANNY’S, MARY KITCHEN, MONSTER MILK, MUSCLE MILK, NATURAL CHOICE, NATURASELECT, NOT-SO-SLOPPY-JOE, OLD SMOKEHOUSE, PELOPONNESE, PILLOW PACK, POCO PAC, PREP CHEF, PREMORO, RANGE BRAND, REV, ROSA GRANDE, SAAG’S, SANDWICH MAKERS, SAUCY BLUES, SKIPPY, SPAM, STAGG, TEZZATA, THICK & EASY, VALLEY FRESH, WHOLLY GUACAMOLE, WHOLLY SALSA, and WRANGLERS.



The Company’s patents expire after a term that is typically 20 years from the date of filing, with earlier expiration possible based on the Company’s decision to pay required maintenance fees.  As long as the Company intends to continue using its trademarks, they are renewed indefinitely.



Customers and Backlog Orders



During fiscal year 2014, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart) represented approximately 14.1 percent of the Company’s revenues (measured as gross sales less returns and allowances), compared to 13.9 percent in fiscal 2013.  Wal-Mart is a customer for all five segments of the Company.  The five largest customers in each segment make up approximately the following percentage of segment sales: 45 percent of Grocery Products, 35 percent of Refrigerated Foods, 39 percent of JOTS, 42 percent of Specialty Foods, and 26 percent of International & Other.  The loss of one or more of the top customers in any of these segments could have a material adverse effect on the results of such segment.  Backlog orders are not significant due to the perishable nature of a large portion of the products.  Orders are accepted and shipped on a current basis.



Competition



The production and sale of meat and food products in the United States and internationally are highly competitive.  The Company competes with manufacturers of pork and turkey products, as well as national and regional producers of other meat and protein sources, such as beef, chicken, fish, and peanut butter.  The Company believes that its largest domestic competitors for its Refrigerated Foods segment in 2014 were Tyson Foods, Inc. and Smithfield Foods, Inc.; for its Grocery Products segment, ConAgra Foods, Inc., General Mills, Inc., Campbell Soup Co., and J. M. Smucker Co.; and for JOTS, Cargill, Inc. and Butterball, LLC.



All segments compete on the basis of price, product quality and attributes, brand identification, breadth of product line, and customer service.  Through aggressive marketing and strong quality assurance programs, the Company’s strategy is to provide











higher quality products that possess strong brand recognition, which would then support higher value perceptions from customers.



The Company competes using this same strategy in international markets around the world.



Research and Development



Research and development continues to be a vital part of the Company’s strategy to extend existing brands and expand into new branded items.  The expenditures for research and development for fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, were approximately $29.9 million, $29.9 million, and $29.8 million, respectively.  There are approximately 140 employees engaged in full time research and development, 50 in the area of improving existing products and 90 in developing new products.



Employees



As of October 26, 2014, the Company had approximately 20,400 active domestic and foreign employees.



(d)Geographic Areas



Financial information about geographic areas, including total revenues attributed to the U.S. and all foreign countries in total for the last three fiscal years of the Company, is reported in Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Annual Stockholder’s Report for the fiscal year ended October 26, 2014, incorporated herein by reference.



(e)Available Information



The Company makes available, free of charge on its Web site at www.hormelfoods.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  These reports are accessible under the caption, “Investors – SEC Filings” on the Company’s Web site and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.



The documents noted above are also available in print, free of charge, to any stockholder who requests them.



(f)Executive Officers of the Registrant



CURRENT OFFICE AND PREVIOUSNAMEAGEFIVE YEARS EXPERIENCEDATESJeffrey   M. Ettinger56Chairman   of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer11/21/06   to PresentJody   H. Feragen58Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer11/01/10   to PresentSenior   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer01/01/07   to 10/31/10Steven   G. Binder57Executive   Vice President/President Hormel Business Units10/31/11   to PresentExecutive   Vice President (Refrigerated Foods)11/01/10   to 10/30/11Group   Vice President (Refrigerated Foods)07/30/07   to 10/31/10Deanna   T. Brady49Group   Vice President (Foodservice)10/28/13   to PresentVice   President Sales (Foodservice Sales)07/30/07   to 10/27/13Thomas   R. Day56Group   Vice President (Refrigerated Foods)10/28/13   to PresentGroup   Vice President (Foodservice)11/01/10   to 10/27/13Senior   Vice President (Foodservice)07/30/07   to 10/31/10Donald   H. Kremin54Group   Vice President (Specialty Foods Group)10/31/11   to PresentVice President/Senior Vice President Consumer   Product Sales (Wal-Mart)10/29/07   to 10/30/11Glenn   R. Leitch54Group   Vice President/President Jennie-O Turkey Store, Inc.10/31/11   to PresentGeneral   Manager (Jennie-O Turkey Store, Inc.)05/30/11   to 10/30/11Senior Vice President – Commodity (Supply Chain   Division – Jennie-O Turkey Store, Inc.)04/30/01   to 05/29/11











(f)Executive Officers of the Registrant - Continued





CURRENT OFFICE AND PREVIOUS

NAMEAGEFIVE YEARS EXPERIENCEDATES



James   P. Snee47Group Vice President/President Hormel Foods   International Corporation10/29/12   to Present

Vice President/Senior Vice President Hormel Foods International   Corporation10/31/11   to 10/28/12

Vice President (Affiliated Business Units –   Refrigerated Foods)10/27/08   to 10/30/11



James   M. Splinter52Group   Vice President (Grocery Products)11/01/10   to Present

Vice   President (Marketing-Consumer Products- Refrigerated Foods)06/02/03   to 10/31/10



Larry   L. Vorpahl51Group   Vice President/President Consumer Products Sales10/31/05   to Present



Bryan   D. Farnsworth57Senior   Vice President (Supply Chain)03/03/14   to Present

Vice   President Quality Management08/01/05   to 03/02/14



Roland   G. Gentzler60Vice   President (Finance) and Treasurer01/01/07   to Present



Brian   D. Johnson54Vice   President and Corporate Secretary11/22/10   to Present

Corporate   Secretary and Senior Attorney10/29/07   to 11/21/10



Lawrence   C. Lyons59Vice   President (Human Resources)03/03/14   to Present

Director   (Human Resources)01/09/06   to 03/02/14



Lori   J. Marco47Vice   President (External Affairs) and General Counsel01/24/11   to Present

Senior   Attorney01/01/07   to 01/23/11



Kevin   L. Myers, Ph.D.49Vice   President (Research and Development)10/28/13   to Present

Director Product and Process Development (Research   and Development)04/30/12   to 10/27/13

Group   Manager Product Development (Research and Development)03/06/06   to 04/29/12



James   N. Sheehan59Vice   President and Controller05/01/00   to Present



No family relationship exists among the executive officers.



Executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Vacancies may be filled and additional officers elected at any time.



