Item 1.BUSINESS



Raymond James Financial, Inc. (“RJF” or the “Company”) is a leading diversified financial services company headquartered in St. Petersburg, Florida providing private client, capital markets, asset management, banking and other services to individuals, corporations and municipalities predominantly in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and Canada.  Its principal subsidiaries include Raymond James & Associates, Inc. (“RJ&A”), Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. (“RJFS”), Raymond James Financial Services Advisors, Inc. (“RJFSA”), Raymond James Ltd. (“RJ Ltd.”), Eagle Asset Management, Inc. (“Eagle”), and Raymond James Bank, N.A. (“RJ Bank”).  All of these subsidiaries are wholly owned by RJF.  RJF and its subsidiaries are hereinafter collectively referred to as “our,” “we” or “us.”



Established in 1962 and public since 1983, RJF has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since 1986 under the symbol “RJF”.  As a financial holding company, RJF is subject to the oversight and periodic examination of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Fed”).





PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES



Our principal subsidiary, RJ&A, with approximately 350 traditional branch and satellite offices throughout the U.S, is one of the largest brokerage firms in the country. RJ&A is a self-clearing broker-dealer engaged in most aspects of securities distribution, trading, investment banking and asset management. RJ&A also offers financial planning services for individuals and provides clearing services for RJFS, RJFSA, other affiliated entities and several unaffiliated broker-dealers. RJ&A is a member of the New York Stock Exchange Euronext (“NYSE”) and most regional exchanges in the U.S. It is also a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation (“SIPC”).



RJFS is one of the largest independent contractor brokerage firms in the U.S., is a member of FINRA and SIPC, but is not a member of any exchanges.  Financial advisors affiliated with RJFS may offer their clients all products and services offered through RJ&A including investment advisory products and services which are offered through its affiliated registered investment advisor, RJFSA.  Both RJFS and RJFSA clear all of their business on a fully disclosed basis through RJ&A.



RJ Ltd. is a Canadian broker-dealer subsidiary which engages in both retail and institutional distribution and investment banking. RJ Ltd. is a member of the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (“IIROC”). Its U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary is a member of FINRA and SIPC.



Eagle is a registered investment advisor serving as the discretionary manager for individual and institutional equity and fixed income portfolios and our internally sponsored mutual funds.



RJ Bank originates and purchases commercial and industrial (“C&I”) loans, commercial and residential real estate loans, tax-exempt loans, as well as securities based loans (“SBL”), all of which are funded primarily by cash balances swept from the investment accounts of our broker-dealer subsidiaries’ clients.







REPORTABLE SEGMENTS



We currently operate through five reportable segments: “Private Client Group” or “PCG”; “Capital Markets”; “Asset Management”; RJ Bank and the “Other” segment.





PRIVATE CLIENT GROUP



We provide securities transaction and financial planning services to more than 2.5 million client accounts through the branch office systems of RJ&A, RJFS, RJFSA, RJ Ltd. and in the United Kingdom (“UK”) through Raymond James Investment Services Limited (“RJIS”). Our financial advisors offer a broad range of investments and services, including both third party and proprietary products, and a variety of financial planning services. We charge sales commissions or asset-based fees for investment services we provide to our Private Client Group clients based on established schedules. Varying discounts may be given, generally based upon the client’s level of business, the trade size, service level provided, and other relevant factors. In fiscal year 2014, the portion of securities commissions and fee revenues from this segment that we consider recurring include asset-based fees, trailing commissions from mutual funds and variable annuities/insurance products, mutual fund services fees, fees earned on funds in our multi-bank sweep program, and interest income, and represented approximately72%of the Private Client Group’s total revenues.






Index



Revenues of this segment are correlated with total client assets under administration.  As ofSeptember 30, 2014, client assets under administration of our Private Client Group amounted to approximately$451 billion.



We offer investment advisory services under various financial advisor affiliation options.  Fee revenues for such services are computed as either a percentage of the assets in the client account, or a flat periodic fee charged to the client for investment advice.  RJ&A advisors operate under the RJ&A registered investment advisor (“RIA”) license while independent contractors affiliated with RJFS may operate either under their own RIA license, or the RIA license of RJFSA.  The investment advisory fee revenues associated with these activities are recorded within securities commissions and fee revenues on our consolidated financial statements.  Refer to the securities commissions and fees section of our summary of significant accounting policies inNote 2of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for our accounting policies on presenting these revenues in our consolidated financial statements.



The majority of our U.S. financial advisors are also licensed to sell insurance and annuity products through our general insurance agency, Raymond James Insurance Group, Inc. (“RJIG”). Through the financial advisors of our domestic broker-dealer subsidiaries, RJIG provides product and marketing support for a broad range of insurance products, principally fixed and variable annuities, life insurance, disability insurance and long-term care coverage.



Our U.S. financial advisors offer a number of professionally managed load mutual funds, as well as a selection of no-load mutual funds. RJ&A and RJFS maintain dealer sales agreements with most major distributors of mutual fund shares sold through broker-dealers.



Net interest revenue in the Private Client Group is generated by client balances, predominantly the earnings on margin loans and assets segregated pursuant to regulations, less interest paid on client cash balances (the “Client Interest Program”). We also utilize a multi-bank sweep program which generates fee revenue from unaffiliated banks in lieu of interest revenue. The cash sweep program, known as the Raymond James Bank Deposit Program (“RJBDP”), is a multi-bank (RJ Bank and several non-affiliated banks) program under which clients’ cash deposits in their brokerage accounts are re-deposited into interest-bearing deposit accounts (up to $250,000 per bank for individual accounts and up to $500,000 for joint accounts) at up to 12 banks. This program enables clients to obtain up to $2.5 million in individual Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) deposit insurance coverage ($5 million for joint accounts) while earning competitive rates for their cash balances.  See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in this report for information regarding our net interest revenues.



Clients’ transactions in securities are affected on either a cash or margin basis. RJ&A and RJ Ltd. make margin loans to clients that are collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities owned by the client. Interest is charged to clients on the amount borrowed.  The interest rate charged to a client on a margin loan is based on current interest rates and on the outstanding amount of the loan.



Typically, broker-dealers utilize bank borrowings and equity capital as the primary sources of funds to finance clients’ margin account borrowings. RJ&A’s source of funds to finance clients’ margin account balances has been cash balances in brokerage clients’ accounts, which are funds awaiting investment. In addition, pursuant to written agreements with clients, broker-dealers are permitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and FINRA rules to lend client securities in margin accounts to other financial institutions. SEC regulations, however, restrict the use of clients’ funds derived from pledging and lending clients’ securities, as well as funds awaiting investment, to the financing of margin account balances; to the extent not so used, such funds are required to be deposited in a special segregated account for the benefit of clients. The regulations also require broker-dealers, within designated periods of time, to obtain possession or control of, and to segregate, clients’ fully paid and excess margin securities.



No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment’s total business.





Raymond James & Associates



RJ&A is a full service broker-dealer that employs financial advisors throughout the U.S. RJ&A’s financial advisors work in a traditional branch setting supported by local management and administrative staff. The number of financial advisors per office ranges from one to 43. RJ&A financial advisors are employees and their compensation includes commission payments, bonuses, and participation in the firm’s benefit plans.  Experienced financial advisors are hired from a wide variety of competitors.  As a part of their agreement to join us we may make loans to financial advisors and to certain key revenue producers, primarily for recruiting and/or retention purposes. In addition, individuals are trained each year to become financial advisors at the Robert A. James National Training Center in St. Petersburg, Florida.










Index



Raymond James Financial Services



RJFS is a broker-dealer that supports independent contractor and bank-affiliated financial advisors in providing products and services to their Private Client Group clients throughout the U.S. The number of financial advisors in RJFS offices ranges from one to 42.  Independent contractors are responsible for all of their direct costs and, accordingly, are paid a larger percentage of commissions and fees than employee advisors. They are permitted to conduct, on a limited basis, certain other approved businesses outside of their RJFS activities such as offering insurance products, independent registered investment advisory services and accounting and tax services, among others, with the approval of RJFS management.



The Financial Institutions Division (“FID”) is a subdivision of RJFS, which provides services to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions, and their clients.  RJFS also provides custodial, trading, research and other back office support and services (including access to clients’ account information and the services of the Asset Management segment) to unaffiliated independent registered investment advisors through its Investment Advisor Division (“IAD”).





Raymond James Financial Services Advisors



RJFSA is a registered investment advisor that exclusively supports the investment advisory activities of the RJFS financial advisors.





Raymond James Ltd.



RJ Ltd. is a wholly owned self-clearing broker-dealer subsidiary headquartered in Canada with its own operations and information processing personnel.  Financial advisors can affiliate with RJ Ltd. either as employees or independent contractors.





Raymond James Investment Services Limited



RJIS is a wholly owned broker-dealer that operates an independent contractor financial advisor network in the United Kingdom. RJIS also provides custodial and execution services to independent investment advisory firms.





Securities Lending



RJ&A conducts its securities lending business through the borrowing and lending of securities from and to other broker-dealers, financial institutions and other counterparties.  Generally, we conduct these activities as an intermediary (referred to as “Matched Book”).  However, RJ&A will also loan client marginable securities held in a margin account containing a debit (referred to as lending from the “Box”) to counterparties.  The borrower of the securities puts up a cash deposit on which interest is earned.  The lender in turn receives cash and pays interest.  These cash deposits are adjusted daily to reflect changes in the current market value of the underlying securities.  Additionally, securities are borrowed from other broker-dealers (referred to as borrowing for the “Box”) to facilitate RJ&A’s clearance and settlement obligations. The net revenues of this securities lending business are the interest spreads generated.





Operations and Information Technology



RJ&A operations personnel are responsible for the processing of securities transactions, custody of client securities, support of client accounts, receipt, identification and delivery of funds and securities, and compliance with certain regulatory and legal requirements for most of our U.S. securities brokerage operations through locations in Saint Petersburg, Florida, Denver, Colorado, Memphis, Tennessee and Southfield, Michigan. RJ Ltd. operations personnel have similar responsibilities at our Canadian brokerage operations located in Vancouver, British Columbia.



The information technology department develops and supports the integrated solutions that provide a differentiated platform for our business.  This platform is designed to allow our advisors to spend more time with their clients and enhance and grow their business.



In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect both our own information assets as well as those we have pertaining to our clients.  Safeguards are applied to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information resources.



Our business continuity program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity in the event of disruptions at our critical facilities.  Business departments have developed operational plans for such disruptions, and we have a staff which devotes their full time to monitoring and facilitating those plans.  Our business continuity plan continues to be enhanced






Index



and tested to allow for continuous business processing in the event of weather-related or other interruptions of operations at our corporate office locations or one of our operations processing or data center sites.



We have also developed a business continuity plan for our PCG retail branches in the event these branches are impacted by severe weather. RJ&A PCG offices utilize an integrated telephone system to route clients to a centralized support center that services clients directly in the event of a branch office closure.





CAPITAL MARKETS



Capital Markets activities consist primarily of equity and fixed income products and services. No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment’s total business.





Institutional Sales



Institutional sales commissions account for a significant portion of this segment’s revenue, which is fueled by a combination of general market activity and the Capital Markets group’s ability to identify and promote attractive investment opportunities.  Our institutional clients are serviced by institutional equity departments of RJ&A and RJ Ltd.; the RJ&A fixed income department; RJ&A’s European offices; Raymond James Financial International, Ltd., (“RJFI”) an institutional UK broker-dealer headquartered in London, England; and Raymond James European Securities, Inc., (“RJES”) headquartered in Paris, France. We charge commissions on equity transactions based on trade size and the amount of business conducted annually with each institution.  Fixed income commissions are based on trade size and the characteristics of the specific security involved.



More than 115 domestic and overseas professionals located in offices in the U.S. and Europe comprise RJ&A’s institutional equity sales and sales trading departments and maintain relationships with nearly 1,430 institutional clients.  Some European and U.S. offices also provide services to high net worth clients. RJ Ltd. has over 30 institutional equity sales and trading professionals servicing predominantly Canadian, U.S. and European institutional investors from offices in Canada.



From offices in various locations within the U.S., RJ&A distributes to institutional clients both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income products, primarily municipal, corporate, government agency and mortgage-backed bonds. RJ&A carries inventory positions of taxable and tax-exempt securities to facilitate institutional sales activities.





Trading



RJ&A, and to a much lesser extent RJ Ltd. and RJFI, each trade both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income securities primarily for the purpose of facilitating sales to clients. The taxable and tax-exempt fixed income traders purchase and sell corporate, municipal, government, government agency, and mortgage-backed bonds, asset-backed securities, preferred stock, and certificates of deposit from and to our clients or other dealers. RJ&A enters into future commitments such as forward contracts and “to be announced” securities (e.g., securities having a stated coupon and original term to maturity, although the issuer and/or the specific pool of mortgage loans is not known at the time of the transaction). Relatively small amounts of proprietary trading positions are also periodically taken by RJ&A or RJ Ltd. for various purposes and are closely monitored within well-defined limits.



RJ&A, through its fixed income public finance operations, enters into forward commitments to purchase Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”), or Federal National Mortgage Association (“FNMA”), mortgage back securities (“MBS”).  The MBS securities are issued on behalf of various state and local housing finance agencies (“HFA”) clients and consist of the mortgages originated through their lending programs. RJ&A’s forward GNMA or FNMA MBS purchase commitments arise at the time of the loan reservation for a borrower in the HFA lending program (these loan reservations fix the terms of the mortgage, including the interest rate and maximum principal amount).  The underlying terms of the GNMA or FNMA MBS purchase, including the price for the MBS security (which is dependent upon the interest rates associated with the underlying mortgages) are also fixed at loan reservation.  Upon acquisition of the MBS security, RJ&A typically sells such security in open market transactions as part of its fixed income operations.



RJ Capital Services, Inc. (“RJCS”), a subsidiary of RJF, participates in the interest rate swaps market as a principal, either to economically hedge RJ&A fixed income inventory, for transactions with clients, or to a limited extent for its own account.   RJCS also purchases pools of interest-only SBA loan strips (“I/O Strips”) that result from RJ Bank’s SBA loan purchase and securitization process, and sells these I/O Strips as part of our fixed income operations.



Trading equity securities involves the purchase and sale of securities from and to our clients or other dealers. Trading profits and losses are derived from the spreads between bid and asked prices, as well as the change in market prices for the individual securities during the period we hold them.  Similar to the equity research department described in the following section, this






Index



operation serves to support both our institutional equity capital markets and Private Client Group sales efforts.  RJ&A also offers an options trading platform that is operated primarily on an agency basis.  The RJ Ltd. trading desks not only support client activity, but also take proprietary positions that are closely monitored within well-defined limits. RJ Ltd. also provides specialist services in approximately 160 TSX listed common stocks.





Equity Research



The more than 50 analysts in RJ&A’s domestic research department support our institutional and retail sales efforts and publish research on more than 1,000 companies. This research primarily focuses on U.S. and Canadian companies in specific industries including consumer, energy, financial services, healthcare, industrial, mining and natural resources, real estate, technology, and communication and transportation. Proprietary industry studies and company-specific research reports are made available to both institutional and individual clients. RJ Ltd. has 16 analysts who publish research on approximately 230 primarily Canadian companies focused in the energy, energy services, mining, forest products, agricultural, technology, clean technology, consumer and industrial products, and real estate sectors. Additionally, we provide coverage of a limited number of European companies through RJES, as well as Latin American companies through a joint venture in which we hold an interest.





Investment Banking



The more than 150 professionals of RJ&A’s equity capital markets investment banking group reside in various locations within the U.S. and are involved in a variety of activities including public and private equity financing for corporate clients, and merger and acquisition advisory services. RJ Ltd.’s investment banking group consists of approximately 30 professionals who reside in various locations within Canada and provide equity financing and financial advisory services to corporate clients. Our investment banking activities provide a comprehensive range of strategic and financial advisory services tailored to our clients’ business life cycles and backed by our strategic industry focus.



RJ&A’s fixed income investment banking services include public finance and debt underwriting activities. More than 180 professionals in the RJ&A public finance group operate out of various offices located throughout the U.S., and serve as a financial advisor, placement agent or underwriter to various issuers who include municipal agencies (including political subdivisions), housing developers and non-profit health care institutions.



RJ&A acts as a consultant, underwriter or selling group member for corporate bonds, MBS, whole loans, agency bonds, preferred stock and unit investment trusts. When underwriting new issue securities, RJ&A agrees to purchase the issue through a negotiated sale or submits a competitive bid.



Raymond James Financial Products, Inc. or Morgan Keegan Capital Services, LLC, both being non-broker-dealer subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Raymond James matched book swap subsidiaries or “RJSS”), enter into derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, options, and combinations of those instruments, primarily with government entities and not-for-profit counterparties.  For every derivative transaction RJSS enters into with a client, RJSS enters into an offsetting derivative transaction with a credit support provider who is a third party financial institution.  Thus, we refer to RJSS’s operations as our “matched book” derivatives business.



Syndicate



The syndicate department consists of professionals who coordinate the marketing, distribution, pricing and stabilization of lead and co-managed equity underwritings. In addition to lead and co-managed offerings, this department coordinates the firm’s syndicate and selling group activities in transactions managed by other investment banking firms.





Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc.



Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. (“RJTCF”) is the general partner or managing member in a number of limited partnerships and limited liability companies. These partnerships and limited liability companies invest in real estate project entities that qualify for tax credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code. RJTCF has been an active participant in the tax credit program since its inception in 1986 and currently focuses on tax credit funds for institutional investors that invest in a portfolio of tax credit-eligible multi-family apartments. The investors’ expected returns on their investments in these funds are primarily derived from tax credits and tax losses that investors can use to reduce their federal tax liability. During fiscal year 2014, RJTCF invested nearly $665 million for large institutional investors in more than 80 real estate transactions for properties located throughout the U.S. Since inception, RJTCF has sold, inclusive of unfunded commitments, over $5.4 billion of tax credit fund partnership interests and has sponsored nearly 100 tax credit funds, with investments in over 1,650 tax credit apartment properties in nearly all 50 states and one U.S. Territory.










Index



Emerging Markets



Raymond James International Holdings, Inc. (“RJIH”), through its subsidiaries, currently has interests in operations in Latin American countries including Argentina and Uruguay. Through these entities we operate securities brokerage, investment banking, asset management and equity research businesses.







ASSET MANAGEMENT



Our Asset Management segment includes the operations of Eagle, the Eagle Family of Funds (“Eagle Funds”), the asset management operations of RJ&A (“AMS”), Raymond James Trust, National Association (“RJ Trust”), a wholly owned subsidiary of RJF, and other fee-based programs. Revenues for this segment are primarily generated by the investment advisory fees related to asset management services provided for individual and institutional investment portfolios, along with mutual funds. Investment advisory fees are earned on assets held in managed or non-discretionary asset-based programs.  These fees are computed based on balances either at the beginning of the quarter, the end of the quarter, or average daily assets.  Consistent with industry practice, fees from private client investment portfolios are typically based on asset values at the beginning of the period while institutional fees are typically based on asset values at the end of the period.  Asset balances are impacted by both the performance of the market and sales and redemptions of client accounts/funds.  Rising markets have historically had a positive impact on investment advisory fee revenues as existing accounts increase in value, and individuals and institutions may commit incremental funds in rising markets.  No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment’s total business.





Eagle Asset Management, Inc.



Eagle is a registered investment advisor that offers a variety of equity and fixed income objectives managed by a number of portfolio management teams and subsidiary investment advisors, including Eagle Boston Investment Management, Inc. (“EBIM”)and ClariVest Asset Management, LLC (“ClariVest”).  Eagle and its subsidiaries have approximately$28.8 billionin assets under management and approximately $2.4 billion in assets under advisement (non-discretionary advised assets) as ofSeptember 30, 2014. Eagle’s clients include institutions, corporations, pension and profit sharing plans, foundations, endowments, issuers of variable annuities, individuals and mutual funds. Eagle also serves as investment advisor to the Eagle Funds. Most clients are charged fees based upon asset levels including fees on non-discretionary assets for providing Eagle account models to professional advisors at other firms, however in some cases performance fees may be earned for outperforming respective benchmarks.



Eagle Fund Distributors, Inc. (“EFD”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Eagle, is a registered broker-dealer engaged in the distribution of the Eagle Funds.



The Small Cap Growth Fund, Mid Cap Growth Fund, Growth and Income Fund, Small Cap Stock Fund, Mid Cap Stock Fund, and Investment Grade Bond Fund are managed by Eagle.  The Capital Appreciation Fund and International Stock Fund utilize ClariVest as a sub-advisor, and the Eagle Smaller Company Fund is managed by EBIM.



Eagle class shares of both a taxable and a tax-exempt money market fund are available to clients of Eagle Funds through an unrelated third party.





AMS



AMS provides a range of offerings to our PCG clients including: managing several investment advisory programs which maintain an approved list of investment managers, provide asset allocation model portfolios, establish custodial facilities, monitor the performance of client accounts, provide clients with accounting and other administrative services, and assist investment managers with certain trading management activities. One of AMS’ programs, “Raymond James Consulting Services” is a managed program in which Raymond James Consulting Services serves as a conduit for AMS clients to access a number of independent investment managers, in addition to Eagle, with initial investment amounts that are below normal program minimums, as well as providing monitoring and due diligence services.  AMS earns fees on asset balances, a portion of which are paid to predominately independent investment managers and Eagle and affiliates who direct the investments within clients’ accounts. In addition, AMS offers additional accounts managed within fee based asset allocation platforms under our program known as Freedom, and other managed programs. Freedom’s investment committee manages portfolios of mutual funds, exchange traded funds and separately managed account models on a discretionary basis. For separately managed account models a portion of the fees earned may be paid to the investment managers who provide the models. At

September 30, 2014

, these managed programs had approximately

$40.6 billion

in assets under management, including approximately

$4.8 billion

managed by Eagle and affiliates.








Index



AMS also provides certain services for their non-discretionary asset-based programs (known as Passport, Ambassador or other non-discretionary asset-based programs). AMS provides performance reporting, research, sales, accounting, trading and other administrative services. Advisory services are provided by PCG financial advisors. Client fees are based on the individual account or relationship size and may also be dependent on the type of securities in the accounts.  The revenues are predominantly included in securities commissions and fees revenue in the PCG segment, with a lesser share of revenue generated from these activities included in investment advisory fee revenue in this Asset Management segment. As ofSeptember 30, 2014, these programs had approximately$78.9 billionin assets. RJFS and RJFSA offer a similar fee-based program known as IMPAC (“IMPAC”).  All revenues for IMPAC are reported in the PCG segment. As ofSeptember 30, 2014, IMPAC had approximately $12.8 billion in assets serviced by RJFS financial advisors and RJFSA registered investment advisors (see the Private Client Group segment discussion in this Item 1 for additional information).



In addition to the foregoing programs, AMS also administers managed fee-based programs for clients who have contracted for portfolio management services from non-affiliated investment advisors that are not part of the Raymond James Consulting Services program.





Raymond James Trust, National Association



RJ Trust is a nationally chartered trust company regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), that has been serving the clients of our financial advisors since 1991. With nearly 90 trust associates and six offices across the U.S., RJ Trust administers approximately$3.4 billionin personal and charitable trust assets as ofSeptember 30, 2014, which includes $247 million in the Raymond James Charitable Endowment Fund. The Raymond James Charitable Endowment Fund is a certified 501(c)(3) public charity where RJ Trust serves as trustee.

In addition to acting as a sole-trustee or co-trustee, under its federal charter RJ Trust may also act as custodian, personal representative or agent for trustee in a wide variety of trust and estate situations in all 50 states. RJ Trust also serves as trustee in living trusts, charitable trusts, life insurance trusts, specialty trusts, Individual Retirement Account (“IRA”) rollover trusts and others.





RJ BANK



RJ Bank is a national bank regulated by the OCC that provides corporate, SBL and residential loans, as well as FDIC insured deposit accounts, to clients of our broker-dealer subsidiaries and to the general public.  RJ Bank is active in corporate loan syndications and participations.  RJ Bank generates net interest revenue principally through the interest income earned on loans and investments, which is offset by the interest expense it pays on client deposits and on its borrowings. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in this report for financial information regarding RJ Bank’s net interest earnings.



RJ Bank operates from a single branch location adjacent to RJF’s corporate office complex in St. Petersburg, Florida. Access to RJ Bank’s products and services is available nationwide through the offices of our affiliated broker-dealers as well as through electronic banking services.  RJ Bank’s assets include C&I loans, commercial and residential real estate loans, tax-exempt loans,  as well as loans fully collateralized by marketable securities. Corporate loans represent approximately 75% of RJ Bank’s loan portfolio of which 95% are U.S. and Canadian syndicated loans. Residential mortgage loans are originated and held for investment or sold in the secondary market. RJ Bank’s liabilities primarily consist of deposits that are cash balances swept from the investment accounts maintained at RJ&A.



RJ Bank does not have any significant concentrations with any one industry or customer (see table of industry concentration in Item 7A, “Credit Risk” in this report).







OTHER



This segment includes our principal capital and private equity activities as well as various corporate overhead costs of RJF including the interest cost on our public debt, and the acquisition and integration costs associated with our acquisitions including, most significantly in fiscal years 2013 and 2012, Morgan Keegan (as hereinafter defined below, seeNote 3of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding this acquisition).



Our principal capital and private equity activities include various direct and third party private equity and merchant banking investments; employee investment funds (the “Employee Funds”); and various private equity funds which we sponsor.






Index





We participate in profits or losses from various investments through both general and limited partnership interests. Additionally, we realize profits or incur losses as a result of direct merchant banking investments. The Employee Funds are limited partnerships, some of which we are the general partner, that invest in our merchant banking and private equity activities and other unaffiliated venture capital limited partnerships. The Employee Funds were established as compensation and retention vehicles for certain of our qualified key employees.  As of September 30, 2014, certain of our merchant banking investments include investments in a manufacturer of crime investigation and forensic supplies, an event photography business, and a company pursuing a new concept in the salon services market.



On April 2, 2012 (the “Closing Date”), RJF completed its acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding shares of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (“MK & Co.”), and MK Holding, Inc. and certain of its affiliates (collectively referred to hereinafter as “Morgan Keegan”) from Regions Financial Corporation (“Regions”).  In mid-February 2013, we completed the transfer of all of the active businesses of MK & Co. to RJ&A. At the time of its acquisition, MK & Co. was a clearing broker-dealer, headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee.  After the transfers of its businesses to RJ&A and effective September 2013, MK & Co. became a special purpose broker-dealer.  In July 2013, MK & Co. formally changed its legal form from a corporation to a limited liability company, and is now known as Morgan Keegan & Company, LLC.  MK & Co. has had no operations throughout fiscal year 2014.







COMPETITION



We are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. We compete with many larger, better capitalized providers of financial services, including other securities firms, most of which are affiliated with major financial services companies, insurance companies, banking institutions and other organizations. We also compete with a number of firms offering on-line financial services and discount brokerage services, usually with lower levels of service, to individual clients. We compete principally on the basis of the quality of our associates, service, product selection, location and reputation in local markets.



In the financial services industry, there is significant competition for qualified associates. Our ability to compete effectively in these businesses is substantially dependent on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel.





REGULATION



The following discussion sets forth some of the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to the financial services industry and provides some specific information relevant to us. The regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of our clients, customers, the securities markets, our depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the protection of our creditors or shareholders. Under certain circumstances, these rules may limit our ability to make capital withdrawals from RJ Bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries.



To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions. A change in applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy may have a material effect on our business.



The financial services industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws.



New rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act



In July 2010, the U. S. government enacted financial services reform legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform & Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”).  The Dodd-Frank Act enacted sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide greater protections to individual consumers and investors. Certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately; however the details of some provisions remain subject to implementing regulations that are yet to be adopted by various applicable regulatory agencies.  Furthermore, many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are still subject to further rule making procedures and studies and will take effect over several years.



The Dodd-Frank Act instructs U.S. federal banking and other regulatory agencies to conduct hundreds of rule-makings, studies and reports. These regulatory agencies include the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; the SEC; the Fed; the OCC; the FDIC; the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”); and the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “FSOC”). As






Index



a result of Dodd-Frank Act rule-making and other regulatory reforms, we are currently experiencing a period of unprecedented change in regulation and these changes could have a significant impact on how we conduct certain aspects of our business. Given the current status of the regulatory developments, we cannot currently quantify the possible effects on our business and operations of all of the significant changes that are currently underway (see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” within this report for further discussion of the potential future impact on our operations).  Certain of the changes enacted under the Dodd-Frank Act thus far, include the following:



•Since RJ Bank provides deposits covered by FDIC insurance, generally up to $250,000 per account ownership type, RJ Bank is subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. In February 2011, under the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC issued a final rule changing its assessment base in addition to other minor adjustments.  For banks with more than $10 billion in assets, the FDIC’s new rule changed the assessment rate calculation, which relies on a scorecard designed to measure financial performance and ability to withstand stress in addition to measuring the FDIC’s exposure should the bank fail. This new rule became effective for RJ Bank beginning with the December 2013 assessment period.



•In July 2011, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB began operations and was given rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that would apply to all banks and provide broad powers to supervise and enforce federal consumer protection laws.  The CFPB has supervisory and enforcement powers under such laws as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Act, the Consumer Financial Privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain other statutes.  At the beginning of fiscal year 2014, the CFPB assumed regulatory authority over RJ Bank for its compliance with various federal consumer protection laws.  The CFPB has proposed and finalized many rules since its establishment; the majority of those became effective in early fiscal year 2014.  The CFPB has authority to promulgate regulations and issue orders, policy statements, conduct examinations, and bring enforcement actions.  The creation of the CFPB has led to enhanced enforcement of consumer protection laws.  The ultimate impact of this heightened scrutiny is uncertain but could result in changes to pricing, practices, products and procedures.  It could also result in increased costs related to regulatory oversight, supervision and examination, remediation efforts and possible penalties.



•In October 2012, under the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, regulators issued final rules requiring banking organizations with total assets of more than $10 billion but less than $50 billion to conduct annual company-prepared stress tests, report the results to their primary regulator and the Fed and publish a summary of the results.  Under the rules, stress tests must be conducted using certain scenarios (baseline, adverse, and severely adverse), which the Fed provides each year.  These new rules required RJF to conduct its first stress test by March 31, 2014.  We submitted our initial stress testing results, utilizing data as of September 30, 2013, to the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) on March 31, 2014.  In addition, RJF will be required to begin publicly disclosing a summary of certain stress test results no later than June 30, 2015 for the stress test cycle beginning on October 1, 2014.



•The Volcker Rule:



Under the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress adopted a ban on proprietary trading and restricted investment in hedge funds and private equity funds by commercial banks and their affiliates (the “Regulated Entities”), the so-called “Volcker Rule.” In December 2013, the CFTC, the OCC, the Fed, the FDIC, and the SEC adopted a final version of the Volcker Rule. We continue to review the details contained in the final Volcker Rule to assess its impact on our operations.  Based upon our latest analysis and understandings of these regulations, we do not anticipate that it will have a material impact on our results of operations.



The final Volcker Rule prohibits Regulated Entities from engaging in “proprietary trading” and imposes limitations on the extent to which Regulated Entities are permitted to invest in certain “covered funds” (i.e. hedge funds and private equity funds) and requires that such investments be fully deducted from Tier 1 Capital.  It limits a Regulated Entity’s aggregate ownership in hedge funds and private equity funds to three percent of Tier I capital, although the impact of such limit to RJF’s investment portfolio is subject to further analysis. Additionally, Regulated Entities are prohibited from owning three percent or more of any single fund.  Congress provided an exemption for certain permitted activities of Regulated Entities, such as underwriting, market making, hedging, and risk management.



The final Volcker Rules became effective as of April 1, 2014 and conformance is required by July 21, 2015.  However, the conformance period may be subject to two additional one-year extensions by the Fed.  Furthermore, Regulated Entities can apply for an additional five-year extension for certain qualifying investments. We currently maintain investments in selected private equity and merchant banking entities, some of which may meet the definition of “covered funds” and therefore be subject to certain limitations. The amount of future investments of this nature that we may make may be






Index



limited in order to maintain compliance levels specified by the regulation.  Further, subsequent interpretations of what constitutes “covered funds” under the final Volcker Rule may adversely impact our operations.



•In July 2013, the OCC, the FRB, and the FDIC released final United States Basel III regulatory capital rules implementing the global regulatory capital reforms of Basel III and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The rule increases the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establishes a capital conservation buffer, and makes selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets.  The rule becomes effective for us on January 1, 2015, subject to a transition period for several aspects of the rule, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer, and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.  We are currently evaluating the impact of these rules on both RJF and RJ Bank; however, based on our current analyses, we believe that RJF and RJ Bank would meet all capital adequacy requirements under the final rules.  However, the increased capital requirements could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital.  As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected.  See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” within this report for more information.



•In July 2014, the SEC adopted amendments to the rules that govern money market mutual funds. The amendments make structural and operational reforms to address risks of excessive withdraws over relatively short time frames by investors from money market funds, while preserving the benefits of the funds.  We do not sponsor any money market funds.   We utilize such funds to a small extent for our own investment purposes, and offer to our clients money market funds that are sponsored by third parties as one of several cash sweep alternatives.



•Effective July 1, 2014, certain final rules issued by the SEC regarding the mandatory registration of municipal advisors became effective.  These rules specify which activities will be covered by the Dodd-Frank Act imposed fiduciary duty of a municipal advisor to its government client, may result in the need for new written representations by issuers, and may limit the manner in which we, in our capacity as an underwriter or in our other professional roles, interact with municipal issuers. We registered as a municipal advisor and by virtue of such registration are now subject to additional regulation and oversight in respect of our municipal finance business.  The SEC recently announced that it will undertake a two-year review of municipal advisors.  Additionally, forthcoming rulemaking by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board may cause further changes to the manner in which state and local government are able to interact with the outside finance professionals.  Although these new rules impact the nature of our interactions with public finance clients, and may have a negative short-term impact on the volume of public finance financing transactions while the industry adapts to the new rules, we do not expect these new rules to have a materially adverse impact on our public finance results of operations (which are included in our Capital Markets segment).



Other regulations applicable to our operations



The SEC is the federal agency charged with administration of the federal securities laws. Financial services firms are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in those states in which they conduct business.  RJ&A and RJFS are currently registered as broker-dealers in all 50 states.  The SEC recently adopted amendments, most of which were effective October 2013, to its financial responsibility rules, including changes to the net capital rule, the customer protection rule, the record-keeping rules and the notification rules applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries.  We are currently evaluating the impact of these amendments on our broker-dealer subsidiaries; however, based on our current analyses, we do not believe they will have a material adverse effect on any of our broker-dealer subsidiaries.   Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors.  It is not clear whether the SEC will determine that a heightened standard of conduct should be applicable to broker-dealers.  Financial services firms are subject to regulation by various foreign governments, securities exchanges, central banks and regulatory bodies, particularly in those countries where they have established offices. We have offices in Europe, Canada and Latin America.



Much of the regulation of broker-dealers in the U.S. and Canada, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”), principally FINRA, the IIROC and securities exchanges. These SROs adopt and amend rules (which are subject to approval by government agencies) for regulating the industry and conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers.



The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. Such administrative proceedings, whether or not resulting in adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures and can have an adverse impact on the reputation of a broker-dealer.



Our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are required by federal law to be members of SIPC. The SIPC fund provides protection for cash and securities held in client accounts up to $500,000 per client, with a limitation of $250,000 on claims for cash balances. We have purchased excess SIPC coverage through various syndicates of Lloyd’s, a London-based firm that holds an “A+” rating






Index



from Standard and Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Excess SIPC is fully protected by the Lloyd’s trust funds and Lloyd’s Central Fund (“Excess SIPC Insurer”).  For RJ&A, the additional protection currently provided has an aggregate firm limit of $750 million for cash and securities, including a sub-limit of $1.9 million per client for cash above basic SIPC. Account protection applies when a SIPC member fails financially and is unable to meet obligations to clients.  This coverage does not protect against market fluctuations.  RJF has provided an indemnity to the Excess SIPC Insurer against any and all losses they may incur associated with the excess SIPC policies.



RJ Ltd. is currently registered in all provinces and territories in Canada. The financial services industry in Canada is subject to comprehensive regulation under both federal and provincial laws. Securities commissions have been established in all provinces and territorial jurisdictions which are charged with the administration of securities laws. Investment dealers in Canada are also subject to regulation by SROs, which are responsible for the enforcement of, and conformity with, securities legislation for their members and have been granted the powers to prescribe their own rules of conduct and financial requirements of members. RJ Ltd. is regulated by the securities commissions in the jurisdictions of registration as well as by the SROs and the IIROC.



RJ Ltd. is required by the IIROC to belong to the Canadian Investors Protection Fund (“CIPF”), whose primary role is investor protection. The CIPF Board of Directors determines the fund size required to meet its coverage obligations and sets a quarterly assessment rate. Dealer members are assessed the lesser of 1.0% of revenue or a risk-based assessment. The CIPF provides protection for securities and cash held in client accounts up to $1 million Canadian currency (“CDN”) per client with separate coverage of CDN $1 million for certain types of accounts. This coverage does not protect against market fluctuations.



SeeNote 26of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information on SEC, FINRA and IIROC regulations pertaining to broker-dealer regulatory minimum net capital requirements.



Our investment advisory operations, including the mutual funds that we sponsor, are also subject to extensive regulation. Our U.S. asset managers are registered as investment advisors with the SEC and are also required to make notice filings in certain states. Virtually all aspects of the asset management business are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit the asset management clients.



RJF is under the supervision of, and subject to the rules, regulations, and periodic examination by the Fed.  Additionally, RJ Bank is subject to the rules and regulations of the OCC, the Fed, the FDIC and the CFPB. Collectively, these rules and regulations cover all aspects of the banking business including lending practices, safeguarding deposits, capital structure, transactions with affiliates and conduct and qualifications of personnel.



RJ Bank is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”).  The CRA is intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound bank operations.  The regulators examine and assign each bank a public CRA rating.  These facts are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions, and applications to open a branch or facility.  Failure to adequately meet these criteria could impose additional requirements and limitations on RJ Bank.



RJF as a financial holding company, and RJ Bank, are subject to various capital requirements.  Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on our and RJ Bank’s financial results. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, RJF and RJ Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. RJF’s and RJ Bank’s capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components of capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require RJF, as a financial holding company, and RJ Bank, to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets and Tier I capital to adjusted assets (as defined in the regulations). See Item 7, “Regulatory” in this report andNote 26of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, for further information.










Index





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



Executive officers of the registrant (which includes officers of certain significant subsidiaries) who are not Directors of the registrant are as follows:







Jennifer C. Ackart50Senior Vice President since August, 2009 and Controller since February, 1995



Bella Loykhter Allaire61Executive Vice President - Technology and Operations - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since June, 2011;  Managing Director and Chief Information Officer, UBS Wealth Management Americas, November, 2006 - January, 2011



Paul D. Allison58Chairman, President and CEO - Raymond James Ltd. since January, 2009; Co-President and Co-CEO - Raymond James Ltd., August, 2008 - January, 2009



John C. Carson, Jr.58President since April, 2012; President - Morgan Keegan & Company, LLC, formerly known as Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc., since July, 2013; Chief Executive Officer and Executive Managing Director - Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc., March, 2008 - July, 2013



George Catanese55Senior Vice President since October, 2005 and Chief Risk Officer since February, 2006



Scott A. Curtis52President - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., since January, 2012; Senior Vice President - Private Client Group - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., July, 2005 - December 2011



Jeffrey A. Dowdle50Executive Vice President - Asset Management Group, since February, 2014; President - Asset Management Services - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., January, 2005 - February 2014; Senior Vice President - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., January, 2005 - February, 2014



Tashtego S. Elwyn43President - Private Client Group - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., since January, 2012; Regional Director - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., October, 2006 - December, 2011



Jeffrey P. Julien58Executive Vice President - Finance since August, 2009, Chief Financial Officer since April, 1987 and Treasurer since February, 2011; Director and/or officer of several RJF subsidiaries



Paul L. Matecki58Senior Vice President since February, 2000, General Counsel since February, 2005 and Secretary since February, 2006



Steven M. Raney49President and CEO - Raymond James Bank, N.A. since January, 2006



Jeffrey E. Trocin55President - Global Equities and Investment Banking - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since July, 2013; Executive Vice President - Equity Capital Markets - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., February 2001 - July, 2013



Dennis W. Zank60Chief Operating Officer since January, 2012; Chief Executive Officer - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since January, 2012; President - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., December, 2002 - December, 2011



Except where otherwise indicated, the executive officer has held his or her current position for more than five years.










Index



EMPLOYEES AND INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS



Our employees and independent contractors (collectively referred to hereinafter as “associates”), are vital to our success in the financial services industry. As ofSeptember 30, 2014, we had approximately 10,300 employees. As ofSeptember 30, 2014, we had more than 3,600 independent contractor financial advisors with whom we are affiliated.





OTHER INFORMATION



Our Internet address is www.raymondjames.com.  We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.





Factors affecting “forward-looking statements”







