Item 1.BUSINESS



Raymond James Financial, Inc. (“RJF”), the parent company of a business established in 1962 and a public company since 1983, is a financial holding company headquartered in St. Petersburg, Florida whose subsidiaries are engaged in various financial services businesses predominantly in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and Canada. At September 30, 2012, its principal subsidiaries include Raymond James & Associates, Inc. (“RJ&A”), Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (“MK & Co.”), Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. (“RJFS”), Raymond James Financial Services Advisors, Inc. (“RJFSA”), Raymond James Ltd. (“RJ Ltd.”), Eagle Asset Management, Inc. (“Eagle”), and Raymond James Bank, N.A. (“RJ Bank”). All of these subsidiaries are wholly owned by RJF. RJF and its subsidiaries are hereinafter collectively referred to as “our,” “we” or “us.”



As a financial holding company, RJF is subject to the oversight and periodic examination of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Fed”).





PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES



Our principal subsidiary, RJ&A, is the largest full service brokerage and investment firm headquartered in the state of Florida and with over 225 locations throughout the U.S, is one of the largest retail brokerage firms in the country. RJ&A is a self-clearing broker-dealer engaged in most aspects of securities distribution, trading, investment banking and asset management. RJ&A also offers financial planning services for individuals and provides clearing services for RJFS, RJFSA, other affiliated entities and several unaffiliated broker-dealers. In addition, RJ&A has ten institutional sales offices in Europe. RJ&A is a member of the New York Stock Exchange Euronext (“NYSE”) and most regional exchanges in the U.S. It is also a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation (“SIPC”).



RJFS is one of the largest independent contractor brokerage firms in the U.S., is a member of FINRA and SIPC, but is not a member of any exchanges.  Financial advisors affiliated with RJFS may offer their clients all products and services offered through RJ&A including investment advisory products and services which are offered through its affiliated registered investment advisor, RJFSA.  Both RJFS and RJFSA clear all of their business on a fully disclosed basis through RJ&A.



On April 2, 2012 (the “Closing Date”), RJF completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding shares of MK & Co. and MK Holding, Inc. and certain of its affiliates (collectively referred to hereinafter as “Morgan Keegan”) from Regions Financial Corporation (“Regions”).  MK & Co. is a self-clearing broker-dealer, headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee, engaged in most aspects of securities distribution and trading.  MK & Co. is a member of the NYSE and most regional exchanges in the U.S., as well as FINRA and SIPC.  Morgan Keegan brings us a strong private client business, one of the industry's top fixed income and public finance groups, and a significant equity capital markets division.



RJ Ltd. is our Canadian broker-dealer subsidiary which engages in both retail and institutional distribution and investment banking. RJ Ltd. is a member of the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (“IIROC”). Its U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary is a member of FINRA and SIPC.



Eagle is a registered investment advisor serving as the discretionary manager for individual and institutional equity and fixed income portfolios and our internally sponsored mutual funds.



RJ Bank originates and purchases commercial and industrial (“C&I”) loans, commercial and residential real estate loans, as well as consumer loans, all of which are funded primarily by cash balances swept from the investment accounts of our broker-dealer subsidiaries' clients.





BUSINESS SEGMENTS



We have eight business segments: “Private Client Group” or “PCG”; “Capital Markets”; “Asset Management”; RJ Bank; “Emerging Markets”; “Securities Lending” ; “Proprietary Capital” and certain corporate activities combined in the “Other” segment.  Our financial information for each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, September 30, 2011, and September 30, 2010 is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.














Index





PRIVATE CLIENT GROUP



We provide securities transaction and financial planning services to over 2.3 million client accounts through the branch office systems of RJ&A, RJFS, RJFSA, MK & Co., RJ Ltd. and Raymond James Investment Services Limited (“RJIS”), in the United Kingdom. Our financial advisors offer a broad range of investments and services, including both third party and proprietary products, and a variety of financial planning services. We charge sales commissions or asset-based fees for investment services we provide to our Private Client Group clients based on established schedules. Varying discounts may be given, generally based upon the client's level of business, the trade size, service level provided, and other relevant factors. In fiscal year 2012, the portion of revenues from this segment that we consider recurring include sources such as asset-based fees including mutual fund and annuity trailing commissions, and interest income and represented approximately 64% of the Private Client Group's total revenues.  Revenues of this segment are correlated with total client assets under administration.  As of September 30, 2012, client assets under administration of our private client group amounted to $368 billion.



The majority of our U.S. financial advisors are also licensed to sell insurance and annuity products through our general insurance agency, Planning Corporation of America (“PCA”), a wholly owned subsidiary of RJ&A. Through the financial advisors of our domestic broker-dealer subsidiaries, PCA provides product and marketing support for a broad range of insurance products, principally fixed and variable annuities, life insurance, disability insurance and long-term care coverage.



Our U.S. financial advisors offer a number of professionally managed load mutual funds, as well as a selection of no-load funds. RJ&A, MK & Co. and RJFS maintain dealer sales agreements with most major distributors of mutual fund shares sold through broker-dealers.



Net interest revenue in the Private Client Group is generated by customer balances, predominantly the earnings on margin loans and assets segregated pursuant to regulations, less interest paid on customer cash balances (“Client Interest Program”). We also utilize a multi-bank sweep program which generates fee revenue from unaffiliated banks in lieu of interest revenue. The cash sweep program, the Raymond James Bank Deposit Program (“RJBDP”), is a multi-bank (RJ Bank and several non-affiliated banks) program under which clients' cash deposits in their brokerage accounts are re-deposited through a third party service into interest-bearing deposit accounts ($245,000 per bank for individual accounts and $490,000 for joint accounts) at up to 12 banks. This program enables clients to obtain up to $2.5 million in individual FDIC deposit insurance coverage ($5 million for joint accounts) in addition to competitive rates for their cash balances.  See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in this report for information regarding our net interest revenues.



Clients' transactions in securities are affected on either a cash or margin basis. RJ&A, MK & Co. and RJ Ltd. make margin loans to clients collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities owned by the client. Interest is charged to clients on the amount borrowed.  The interest rate charged to a client on a margin loan is based on current interest rates and on the size of the loan balance in the client's account.



Typically, broker-dealers utilize bank borrowings and equity capital as the primary sources of funds to finance clients' margin account borrowings. RJ&A and MK & Co.'s source of funds to finance clients' margin account balances has been cash balances in brokerage clients' accounts, which are funds awaiting investment. In addition, pursuant to written agreements with clients, broker-dealers are permitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and FINRA rules to lend client securities in margin accounts to other financial institutions. SEC regulations, however, restrict the use of clients' funds derived from pledging and lending clients' securities, as well as funds awaiting investment, to the financing of margin account balances; to the extent not so used, such funds are required to be deposited in a special segregated account for the benefit of clients. The regulations also require broker-dealers, within designated periods of time, to obtain possession or control of, and to segregate, clients' fully paid and excess margin securities.



No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.





Raymond James & Associates



RJ&A is a full service broker-dealer that employs financial advisors throughout the U.S. RJ&A's financial advisors work in a traditional branch setting supported by local management and administrative staffs. The number of financial advisors per office ranges from one to 28. RJ&A financial advisors are employees and their compensation includes commission payments and participation in the firm's benefit plans.  Experienced financial advisors are hired from a wide variety of competitors.  As a part of their agreement to join us we may make loans to financial advisors and to certain key revenue producers, primarily for recruiting and/or retention purposes. In addition, individuals are trained each year to become financial advisors at the Robert A. James National Training Center in St. Petersburg, Florida.








Index



Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc.



MK & Co. is a full service broker-dealer that employs financial advisors primarily in the southeastern U.S.  MK & Co.'s financial advisors work in a traditional branch setting supported by local management and administrative staffs. The number of financial advisors per office ranges from one to 56. MK & Co. financial advisors are employees and their compensation includes commission payments and participation in the firm's benefit plans.  Experienced financial advisors are hired from a wide variety of competitors.  As a part of their agreement to join MK & Co, it may make loans to financial advisors and to certain key revenue producers, primarily for recruiting and/or retention purposes.



Our plan is to migrate all the financial advisors and client accounts from the MK & Co. platform and fully integrate the MK & Co. operations onto the RJ&A platform during the second quarter of fiscal year 2013.





Raymond James Financial Services



RJFS is a broker-dealer that supports independent contractor financial advisors in providing products and services to their Private Client Group clients throughout the U.S. The number of financial advisors in RJFS offices ranges from one to 45.  Independent contractors are responsible for all of their direct costs and, accordingly, are paid a larger percentage of commissions and fees than employee advisors. They are permitted to conduct, on a limited basis, certain other approved businesses unrelated to their RJFS activities such as offering insurance products, independent registered investment advisory services and accounting and tax services, among others, with the approval of RJFS management.



The Financial Institutions Division (“FID”) is a subdivision of RJFS. Through FID, RJFS services financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions, and their clients.  RJFS also provides custodial, trading and other services (including access to clients' account information and the services of the Asset Management segment) to unaffiliated independent registered investment advisors through its Investment Advisor Division (“IAD”).





Raymond James Financial Services Advisors



RJFSA is a registered investment advisor that exclusively supports the investment advisory activities of the RJFS financial advisors.





Raymond James Ltd.



RJ Ltd. is a wholly owned self-clearing broker-dealer subsidiary headquartered in Canada with its own operations and information processing personnel.  Financial advisors can affiliate with RJ Ltd. either as employees or independent contractors.





Raymond James Investment Services Limited



RJIS is a wholly owned broker dealer that operates an independent contractor financial advisor network in the United Kingdom. RJIS also provides custodial and execution services to independent investment advisory firms.





Operations and Information Technology



RJ&A and MK & Co.'s operations personnel are responsible for the execution of orders, processing of securities transactions, custody of client securities, support of client accounts, receipt, identification and delivery of funds and securities, and compliance with certain regulatory and legal requirements for most of our U.S. securities brokerage operations through three locations in Saint Petersburg, Florida, Memphis, Tennessee and Southfield, Michigan.  RJ Ltd. operations personnel have similar responsibilities at our Canadian brokerage operations located in Vancouver, British Columbia.



The information technology department develops and supports the integrated solutions that provide a differentiated platform for our business.  This platform is designed to allow our advisors to spend more time with their clients and enhance and grow their business.



Our business continuity program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity in the event of disruptions at our critical facilities.  Business departments have developed operational plans for such disruptions, and we have a staff which devotes their full time to monitoring and facilitating those plans.  Our business continuity plan continues to be enhanced and tested to allow for continuous business processing in the event of weather-related or other interruptions of operations at the RJF headquarters complex.








Index



We have also developed a business continuity plan for our PCG retail branches in the event these branches are impacted by severe weather. RJA offices utilize an integrated telephone system to route clients to a centralized support center that services clients directly in the event of a branch office closure.  MK & Co. branches are assigned a “contingency branch” in another part of the region that allows the impacted branch the ability to communicate through the contingency branch.



In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect the information assets of the firm and its clients.  Safeguards are applied to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information resources.





CAPITAL MARKETS



Capital Markets activities consist primarily of equity and fixed income products and services. During fiscal year 2012, we integrated MK & Co's equity capital markets, including research and investment banking, as well as certain fixed income operations, into RJ&A.  No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.





Institutional Sales



Institutional sales commissions account for a significant portion of this segment's revenue, which is fueled by a combination of general market activity and the Capital Markets group's ability to identify and promote attractive investment opportunities.  Our institutional clients are serviced by institutional equity departments of RJ&A and RJ Ltd.; the RJ&A and MK & Co. fixed income departments; RJ&A's European offices; Raymond James Financial International, Ltd, an institutional UK broker-dealer headquartered in London, England; and Raymond James European Securities, Inc., (“RJES”) a joint venture that is headquartered in Paris, France in which we hold a controlling interest. We charge commissions on equity transactions based on trade size and the amount of business conducted annually with each institution.  Fixed income commissions are based on trade size and the characteristics of the specific security involved.



Over 100 domestic and overseas professionals located in offices in the U.S. and Europe comprise RJ&A's institutional equity sales and sales trading departments and maintain relationships with more than 1,200 institutional clients.  Some European and U.S. offices also provide services to high net worth clients. RJ Ltd. has approximately 35 institutional equity sales and trading professionals servicing predominantly Canadian, U.S. and European institutional investors from offices in Canada and Europe.



From offices in various locations within the U.S., RJ&A and MK & Co. distribute to institutional clients both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income products, primarily municipal, corporate, government agency and mortgage-backed bonds. RJ&A carries inventory positions of taxable and tax-exempt securities to facilitate institutional sales activities.





Trading



Trading equity securities involves the purchase and sale of securities from and to our clients or other dealers. Profits and losses are derived from the spreads between bid and asked prices, as well as market trends for the individual securities during the period we hold them.  RJ&A makes markets in nearly 1,000 common stocks.  Similar to the equity research department, this operation serves to support both our institutional and Private Client Group sales efforts.  The RJ Ltd. trading desks not only support client activity, but also take proprietary positions that are closely monitored within well defined limits. RJ Ltd. also provides specialist services in approximately 150 TSX listed common stocks.



RJ&A trades both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income securities. When RJ&A acquired Morgan Keegan, the fixed income traders of MK & Co. were integrated into RJ&A.  The taxable and tax-exempt fixed income traders purchase and sell corporate, municipal, government, government agency, and mortgage-backed bonds, asset-backed securities, preferred stock and certificates of deposit from and to our clients or other dealers. RJ&A enters into future commitments such as forward contracts and “to be announced” securities (e.g., securities having a stated coupon and original term to maturity, although the issuer and/or the specific pool of mortgage loans is not known at the time of the transaction). Low levels of proprietary trading positions are also periodically taken by RJ&A for various purposes and are closely monitored within well defined limits. In addition, a subsidiary of RJF, RJ Capital Services, Inc., participates in the interest rate swaps market as a principal, either to economically hedge RJ&A fixed income inventory, for transactions with customers, or to a limited extent for its own account.












Index



Equity Research



The domestic analysts in RJ&A's research department support our institutional and retail sales efforts and publish research on approximately 1,000 companies. This research primarily focuses on U.S. companies in specific industries including communication services, consumer, energy, financial services, healthcare, real estate, technology, technology services,  transportation and infrastructure, and security, defense and government services. Proprietary industry studies and company-specific research reports are made available to both institutional and individual clients. RJ Ltd. has  17 analysts who publish research on approximately 200 primarily Canadian companies focused in the energy, energy services, mining, forest products, agricultural, technology, clean technology, consumer and industrial products, and real estate sectors. Additionally, we provide coverage of approximately 90 European and approximately 80 Latin American companies through joint ventures in which we hold interests.





Investment Banking



The nearly 170 professionals of RJ&A's investment banking group reside in various locations within the U.S. and are involved in a variety of activities including public and private equity financing for corporate clients, and merger and acquisition advisory services. RJ Ltd.'s investment banking group consists of approximately 30 professionals who reside in various locations within Canada and provide equity financing and financial advisory services to corporate clients. Our investment banking activities provide a comprehensive range of strategic and financial advisory services tailored to our clients' business life cycles and backed by our strategic industry focus.



Fixed income investment banking includes debt underwriting and public finance activities. The over 90 professionals in the RJ&A and MK & Co. public finance divisions operate out of various offices located throughout the U.S., and serve as a financial advisor, placement agent or underwriter to various issuers who include municipal agencies (including political subdivisions), housing developers and non-profit health care institutions.



RJ&A and MK & Co. act as a consultant, underwriter or selling group member for corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, agency bonds, preferred stock and unit investment trusts. When underwriting new issue securities, RJ&A or MK & Co. agree to purchase the issue through a negotiated sale or submits a competitive bid.





Syndicate



The syndicate department consists of professionals who coordinate the marketing, distribution, pricing and stabilization of lead and co-managed equity underwritings. In addition to lead and co-managed offerings, this department coordinates the firm's syndicate and selling group activities in transactions managed by other investment banking firms.





Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc.



Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. (“RJTCF”) is the general partner or managing member in a number of limited partnerships and limited liability companies. These partnerships and limited liability companies invest in real estate project entities that qualify for tax credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code. RJTCF has been an active participant in the tax credit program since its inception in 1986 and currently focuses on tax credit funds for institutional investors that invest in a portfolio of tax credit-eligible multi-family apartments. The investors' expected returns on their investments in these funds are primarily derived from tax credits and tax losses that investors can use to reduce their federal tax liability. During fiscal 2012, RJTCF invested approximately $596 million for large institutional investors in approximately 80 real estate transactions for properties located throughout the U.S. Since inception, RJTCF has raised over $4 billion in equity and has sponsored 75 tax credit funds, with investments in over 1,400 tax credit apartment properties in nearly all 50 states and one U.S. Territory.












Index



ASSET MANAGEMENT



Our Asset Management segment includes the operations of Eagle, the Eagle Family of Funds (“Eagle Funds”), the asset management operations of RJ&A (“AMS”), Raymond James Trust, and other fee-based programs. The majority of the revenue for this segment is generated by the investment advisory fees related to asset management services for individual investment portfolios, mutual funds and managed programs.  Investment advisory fees are also earned on assets held in managed and non-managed programs.  These fees are computed based on balances either at the beginning of the quarter, the end of the quarter, or average assets.  Consistent with industry practice, fees from private client investment portfolios are typically based on asset values at the beginning of the period while institutional fees are typically based on asset values at the end of the period.  Asset balances are impacted by both the performance of the market and new sales and redemptions of client accounts/funds.  Rising markets  positively impact revenues from investment advisory fees as existing accounts increase in value, and individuals and institutions may commit incremental funds in rising markets.  No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.





Eagle Asset Management, Inc.



Eagle is a registered investment advisor with approximately $20 billion in assets under management and $1.6 billion in assets under advisement (non-discretionary advised assets) as of September 30, 2012. Eagle offers a variety of equity and fixed income objectives managed by a number of portfolio management teams and a subsidiary investment advisor, Eagle Boston Investment Management, Inc. Eagle's clients include institutions, corporations, pension and profit sharing plans, foundations, endowments, variable annuities, individuals and mutual funds.  Eagle also serves as investment advisor to the Eagle Funds.  Most clients are charged fees based upon assets under management, however in some cases performance fees may be earned for outperforming respective benchmarks.  Eagle also earns fees on non-discretionary assets for providing their account models to professional advisors at other firms.



Eagle Fund Distributors, Inc. (“EFD”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Eagle, is a registered broker-dealer engaged in the distribution of the Eagle Funds.



The Small Cap Growth Fund, Mid Cap Growth Fund, Growth and Income Fund, Mid Cap Stock Fund, Investment Grade Bond Fund, and Eagle Smaller Company Fund are managed by Eagle.  The Capital Appreciation Fund and International Equity Fund utilize unaffiliated sub-advisors.



Eagle class shares of both a taxable and a tax-exempt money market fund are available to clients of Eagle and its affiliates through an unrelated third party.





AMS










Index



AMS also provides certain services for their non-managed fee-based programs (Passport, Ambassador and other non-managed programs). They provide performance reporting, research, sales, accounting, trading and other administrative services. Advisory services are provided by PCG financial advisors. Client fees are based on the individual account or relationship size and may also be dependent on the type of securities in the accounts. Total client fees generally range from 0.50% to 3.00% of assets, and are predominantly allocated to the PCG segment, with a lesser share of revenue generated from these activities allocated to this Asset Management segment. As of September 30, 2012, these programs had approximately $51 billion in assets. RJFS and RJFSA offer similar fee-based programs called IMPAC (“IMPAC”).  All revenues for IMPAC are allocated to either RJFS or RJFSA. As of September 30, 2012, IMPAC had approximately $11.6 billion in assets serviced by RJFS financial advisors and RJFSA registered investment advisors (see the Private Client Group segment discussion in this Item 1 for additional information).  Morgan Keegan offers similar programs to its clients as those described above, which will be incorporated into the above described AMS programs upon the completion of the integration of MK & Co. into RJ&A which is planned for fiscal year 2013.



In addition to the foregoing programs, AMS also administers managed fee-based programs for clients who have contracted for portfolio management services from non-affiliated investment advisors that are not part of the Raymond James Consulting Services program.





Raymond James Trust, National Association



Raymond James Trust, National Association, (“RJT”) provides personal trust services primarily to existing clients of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. Portfolio management of trust assets can be subcontracted to our asset management operations. This subsidiary had a total of approximately $2.5 billion in client assets at September 30, 2012, including more than $160 million in the donor-advised charitable foundation known as the Raymond James Charitable Endowment Fund.





RJ BANK



RJ Bank provides corporate, residential and consumer loans, as well as Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insured deposit accounts, to clients of our broker-dealer subsidiaries and to the general public.  RJ Bank is active in corporate loan syndications and participations.  RJ Bank generates revenue principally through the interest income earned on loans and investments, which is offset by the interest expense it pays on client deposits and on its borrowings. See Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in this report for financial information regarding RJ Bank's net interest earnings.  Effective, February 1, 2012, RJ Bank became a national bank, regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”),



RJ Bank operates from a single branch location adjacent to RJF's headquarters complex in St. Petersburg, Florida. Access to RJ Bank's products and services is available nationwide through the offices of our affiliated broker-dealers as well as through telephonic and electronic banking services.  RJ Bank's assets include C&I loans, commercial and residential real estate loans, as well as consumer loans, primarily consisting of securities-based loans. Corporate loans represent approximately 75% of RJ Bank's loan portfolio of which 95% are U.S. and Canadian syndicated loans. Residential mortgage loans are originated and held for investment or sold in the secondary market. RJ Bank's total liabilities primarily consist of deposits that are cash balances swept from the investment accounts maintained at RJ&A.



RJ Bank does not have any significant concentrations with any one industry or customer (see table of industry concentration in Item 7A, “Credit Risk”).





EMERGING MARKETS



Raymond James International Holdings, Inc. (“RJIH”), through its subsidiaries, currently has interests in operations in Latin American countries including Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil. Through these entities we operate securities brokerage, investment banking, asset management and equity research businesses. In fiscal year 2012, approximately 66% of this segment's investment banking revenues arose from one client.  No single client accounts for a material percentage of the remainder of revenue generated by this segment.












Index



SECURITIES LENDING



This segment conducts its business through the borrowing and lending of securities from and to other broker-dealers, financial institutions and other counterparties.  Generally, we conduct these activities as an intermediary (referred to as “Matched Book”).  However, Securities Lending will also loan customer marginable securities held in a margin account containing a debit (referred to as lending from the “Box”) to counterparties.  The borrower of the securities puts up a cash deposit on which interest is earned.  The lender in turn receives cash and pays interest.  These cash deposits are adjusted daily to reflect changes in the current market value of the underlying securities.  Additionally, securities are borrowed from other broker-dealers (referred to as borrowing for the “Box”) to facilitate RJ&A's clearance and settlement obligations. The net revenues of this securities lending business are the interest spreads generated.  No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.





PROPRIETARY CAPITAL



This segment consists of our principal capital and private equity activities including various direct and third party private equity and merchant banking investments; employee investment funds (the “Employee Funds”); and various private equity funds which we sponsor including Raymond James Capital Partners, L.P.  As of September 30, 2012, certain of our merchant banking investments include investments in an allergy immunotherapy testing and treatment supply company, a manufacturer of crime investigation and forensic supplies, an event photography business, and a company pursuing a new concept in the salon services market.



We participate in profits or losses through both general and limited partnership interests. Additionally, we realize profits or incur losses as a result of direct merchant banking investments. The Employee Funds are limited partnerships, some of which we are the general partner, that invest in our merchant banking and private equity activities and other unaffiliated venture capital limited partnerships. The Employee Funds were established as compensation and retention vehicles for certain of our qualified key employees.





OTHER



This segment includes various corporate overhead costs of RJF including the interest cost on our public debt, the acquisition and integration costs associated with our acquisition of Morgan Keegan (see further discussion in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K), and the loss associated with the securities repurchased in the prior year as a result of the auction rate securities (“ARS”) settlement (see further discussion of this matter in the Other segment section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K).





COMPETITION



We are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. We compete with many larger, better capitalized providers of financial services, including other securities firms, most of which are affiliated with major financial services companies, insurance companies, banking institutions and other organizations. We also compete with a number of firms offering on-line financial services and discount brokerage services, usually with lower levels of service, to individual clients. We compete principally on the basis of the quality of our associates, service, product selection, location and reputation in local markets.



In the financial services industry, there is significant competition for qualified associates. Our ability to compete effectively in these businesses is substantially dependent on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel.





REGULATION



The following discussion sets forth some of the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to the financial services industry and provides some specific information relevant to us. The regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of our customers and the securities markets, our depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the protection of our creditors or shareholders. Under certain circumstances, these rules may limit our ability to make capital withdrawals from RJ Bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries.



To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions. A change in applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy may have a material effect on our business.






Index





The financial services industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws.  During our fiscal 2010, the U. S. government enacted financial services reform legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform & Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”).  Because of the nature of our business and our business practices, we presently do not expect the Dodd-Frank Act to have a significant direct impact on our operations as a whole.  However, because many of the implementing regulations will result from further studies by various regulatory agencies, the specific impact on each of our businesses is uncertain.



The SEC is the federal agency charged with administration of the federal securities laws. Financial services firms are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in those states in which they conduct business.  RJ&A, RJFS and MK & Co. are currently registered as broker-dealers in all 50 states.  In addition, financial services firms are subject to regulation by various foreign governments, securities exchanges, central banks and regulatory bodies, particularly in those countries where they have established offices. We have offices in Europe, Canada and Latin America.



Much of the regulation of broker-dealers in the U.S. and Canada, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”), principally FINRA, the IIROC and securities exchanges. These SROs adopt and amend rules (which are subject to approval by government agencies) for regulating the industry and conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers.



The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. Such administrative proceedings, whether or not resulting in adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures and can have an adverse impact on the reputation of a broker-dealer.



Our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are required by federal law to belong to SIPC. When the SIPC fund falls below a certain amount, members are required to pay higher annual assessments to replenish the reserves.  During fiscal year 2012, certain of our domestic broker-dealer subsidiaries incurred expenses amounting to 0.25% of net operating revenues as defined by SIPC, or approximately $4.5 million, to SIPC as a special assessment.  The SIPC fund provides protection for securities held in customer accounts up to $500,000 per customer, with a limitation of $250,000 on claims for cash balances. We have purchased excess SIPC coverage through various syndicates of Lloyd's, a London-based firm that holds an “A+” rating from Standard and Poor's and Fitch Ratings. Excess SIPC is fully protected by the Lloyd's trust funds and Lloyd's Central Fund. For RJ&A, the additional protection currently provided has an aggregate firm limit of $750 million, including a sub-limit of $1.9 million per customer for cash above basic SIPC. For MK & Co., the additional protection currently provided has a limit of $124.5 million per customer and an aggregate firm limit of $400 million, with no sub-limit for cash above basic SIPC.  Account protection applies when a SIPC member fails financially and is unable to meet obligations to clients.  This coverage does not protect against market fluctuations.



RJ Ltd. is currently registered in all provinces and territories in Canada. The financial services industry in Canada is subject to comprehensive regulation under both federal and provincial laws. Securities commissions have been established in all provinces and territorial jurisdictions which are charged with the administration of securities laws. Investment dealers in Canada are also subject to regulation by SROs, which are responsible for the enforcement of, and conformity with, securities legislation for their members and have been granted the powers to prescribe their own rules of conduct and financial requirements of members. RJ Ltd. is regulated by the securities commissions in the jurisdictions of registration as well as by the SROs and the IIROC.



RJ Ltd. is required by the IIROC to belong to the Canadian Investors Protection Fund (“CIPF”), whose primary role is investor protection. The CIPF Board of Directors determines the fund size required to meet its coverage obligations and sets a quarterly assessment rate. Dealer members are assessed the lesser of 1.0% of revenue or a risk-based assessment. The CIPF provides protection for securities and cash held in client accounts up to $1 million Canadian dollars (“CDN”) per client with separate coverage of CDN $1 million for certain types of accounts. This coverage does not protect against market fluctuations.



See Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on SEC, FINRA and IIROC regulations pertaining to broker-dealer regulatory minimum net capital requirements.



Our investment advisory operations, including the mutual funds that we sponsor, are also subject to extensive regulation. Our U.S. asset managers are registered as investment advisors with the SEC and are also required to make notice filings in certain states. Virtually all aspects of the asset management business are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit the asset management clients.






Index





During January 2012, RJF's application to become a bank holding company and a financial holding company was approved by the Fed and RJ Bank's conversion was approved by the OCC.  These changes became effective February 1, 2012.  RJF converted to a bank holding company in order to provide RJ Bank the ability to maintain a portfolio with a greater percentage of its assets invested in corporate loans than were otherwise permissible under the thrift regulations RJ Bank was previously subject to.





RJF, as a result of our conversion to a financial holding company, and RJ Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements established by bank regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on our and RJ Bank's financial results. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, RJF and RJ Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of our assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. RJF's and RJ Bank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components of our capital, risk weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require RJF, as a financial holding company, and RJ Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets and Tier I capital to adjusted assets (as defined in the regulations). See Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information.



In June of 2012, the OCC, the FRB and the FDIC published three Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (the “NPRs”) to implement aspects of Basel III, as well as to implement aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules would increase the quantity and quality of capital required by establishing a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement, a higher minimum Tier 1 capital requirement, and more conservative standards for including an instrument in regulatory capital. In addition, these NPRs propose to apply limits on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if a specified amount of common equity Tier 1 capital in addition to the amount necessary to meet minimum capital requirements is not held and revised rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity and address weaknesses identified over recent years.   Based on our current internal capital analyses, we believe that RJF and RJ Bank would meet all capital adequacy requirements under the applicable NPRs.



However, since these NPRs are subject to change, the adoption of these proposed rules could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital and liquidity.  As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected.  See Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, within this Form 10-K for more information.



In addition, since RJ Bank provides products covered by FDIC insurance, RJ Bank is subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.



Our federally chartered trust company is subject to regulation by the OCC. This regulation focuses on, among other things, ensuring the safety and soundness of RJT's fiduciary services.








Index



As a public company whose common stock is listed on the NYSE, we are subject to corporate governance requirements established by the SEC and NYSE, as well as federal and state law. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to meet certain requirements regarding business dealings with members of our Board of Directors, the structure of our Audit Committee, and ethical standards for our senior financial officers. Under SEC and NYSE rules, we are required to comply with other standards of corporate governance, including having a majority of independent directors serve on our Board of Directors, and the establishment of independent audit, compensation and corporate governance committees.  The Dodd-Frank Act included a number of provisions imposing governance standards, including those regarding “Say-on-Pay” votes for shareholders, incentive compensation clawbacks, compensation committee independence and disclosure concerning executive compensation, employee and director hedging and chairman and CEO positions.



Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and to obtain an opinion from our independent auditors regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.






Index









EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



Executive officers of the registrant (which includes officers of certain significant subsidiaries) who are not Directors of the registrant are as follows:







Jennifer C. Ackart48Senior Vice President, Controller



Bella Loykhter Allaire59Executive Vice President - Technology and Operations - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since June, 2011;  Managing Director and Chief Information Officer, UBS Wealth Management Americas, November, 2006 - January, 2011



Paul D. Allison56Chairman, President and CEO - Raymond James Ltd. since January, 2009; Co-President and Co-CEO - Raymond James Ltd., August, 2008 - January, 2009; Executive Vice President and Vice Chairman, Merrill Lynch Canada, December, 2007 - August, 2008; Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Co-Head of Canada Investment Banking, Merrill Lynch Canada, March, 2001 - December, 2007



John C. Carson, Jr.56President - Raymond James Financial, Inc. since April, 2012.  Chief Executive Officer and Executive Managing Director - Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. since March, 2008; President - Fixed Income Capital Markets - Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc., 1994 - February, 2008



George Catanese53Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer since October, 2005; Director, Internal Audit, November, 2001 - October, 2005



Jeffrey A. Dowdle48President - Asset Management Services - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since January, 2005; Senior Vice President - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since January, 2005



Jeffrey P. Julien56Executive Vice President - Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Director and/or officer of several RJF subsidiaries



Paul L. Matecki56Senior Vice President - General Counsel, Secretary



Steven M. Raney47President and CEO - Raymond James Bank, FSB since January, 2006; Partner and Director of Business Development, LCM Group, February, 2005 - December, 2005; various executive positions in the Tampa Bay area, Bank of America, June, 1988 - January, 2005



Jeffrey E. Trocin53Executive Vice President - Equity Capital Markets - Raymond James & Associates, Inc.



Dennis W. Zank58Chief Operating Officer since January, 2012; Chief Executive Officer - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since January, 2012; President - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., December, 2002 - December, 2011



Except where otherwise indicated, the executive officer has held his or her current position for more than five years.







EMPLOYEES AND INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS



Our employees and independent contractors are vital to our success in the financial services industry. As of September 30, 2012, we have approximately 10,400 employees. As of September 30, 2012, we have more than 3,500 independent contractors with whom we are affiliated.












Index





OTHER INFORMATION



Our internet address is www.raymondjames.com; investors can find financial information on our website under “Our Company - Investor Relations - Financial Reports - SEC Filings.”   We make available, free of charge, through links to the SEC website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These reports, which include certain XBRL instance files, are available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also make available on our website our Annual Report to Shareholders and our proxy statements in PDF format under “Our Company - Investors Relations -Shareholders' Meeting.”  A copy of any document we file with the SEC is available at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the Public Reference Room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov.



Additionally, we make available on our website under “Our Company - Investor Relations - Corporate Governance,” a number of our corporate governance documents. These include: the Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of the Audit Committee and the Corporate Governance, Nominating and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, our Compensation Recoupment Policy, the Senior Financial Officers' Code of Ethics, and the Codes of Ethics for Employees and the Board of Directors. Printed copies of these documents will be furnished to any shareholder upon request. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report.





Factors affecting “forward-looking statements”



From time to time, we may publish “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or make oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as anticipated financial performance, future revenues or earnings, business prospects, allowance for loan loss levels at RJ Bank, projected ventures, new products, anticipated market performance, recruiting efforts, regulatory approvals, the integration of Morgan Keegan, and other matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. In order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, we caution readers that a variety of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, are discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in this report. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.





