ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Raymond James Financial, Inc. (“RJF”), the parent company of a business established in 1962 and a public company since 1983, is a holding company headquartered in St. Petersburg, Florida whose subsidiaries are engaged in various financial services businesses predominantly in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and Canada. At September 30, 2010, its principal subsidiaries include Raymond James & Associates, Inc. (“RJ&A”), Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. (“RJFS”), Raymond James Financial Services Advisors, Inc. (“RJFSA”), Raymond James Ltd. ("RJ Ltd."), Eagle Asset Management, Inc. (“Eagle”), and Raymond James Bank, FSB (“RJ Bank”). All of these subsidiaries are wholly-owned by RJF. RJF and its subsidiaries are hereinafter collectively r
eferred to as “our”, “we” or “us”.



PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES



Our principal subsidiary, RJ&A, is the largest full service brokerage and investment firm headquartered in the state of Florida and one of the largest retail brokerage firms in North America. RJ&A is a self-clearing broker-dealer engaged in most aspects of securities distribution, trading, investment banking and asset management. RJ&A also offers financial planning services for individuals and provides clearing services for RJFS, RJFSA, other affiliated entities and several unaffiliated broker-dealers. In addition, RJ&A has five institutional sales offices in Europe. RJ&A is a member of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), American Stock Exchange, and most regional exchanges in the U.S. It is also a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and the Securities Investors
 Protection Corporation (“SIPC”).



RJFS is one of the largest independent contractor brokerage firms in the U.S., is a member of FINRA and SIPC, but is not a member of any exchanges.  Financial advisors affiliated with RJFS may offer their clients all products and services offered through RJ&A including investment advisory products and services which are offered through its affiliated registered investment advisor RJFSA.  Both RJFS and RJFSA clear all of their business on a fully disclosed basis through RJ&A.



RJ Ltd. is our Canadian broker-dealer subsidiary which engages in both retail and institutional distribution and investment banking. RJ Ltd. is a member of the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (“IIROC”). Its U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary is a member of FINRA and SIPC.



Eagle is a registered investment advisor serving as the discretionary manager for individual and institutional equity and fixed income portfolios and our internally sponsored mutual funds.



RJ Bank purchases and originates corporate loans secured by corporate assets, commercial and residential real estate loans, and consumer loans, all of which are funded primarily by cash balances swept from the investment accounts of our broker-dealer subsidiaries’ clients.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS



We have eight business segments: Private Client Group; Capital Markets; Asset Management; RJ Bank; Emerging Markets; Stock Loan/Borrow; Proprietary Capital and certain corporate activities combined in the Other segment. Our financial information for each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010, September 30, 2009, and September 30, 2008 is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.



PRIVATE CLIENT GROUP



We provide securities transaction and financial planning services to approximately 1.9 million client accounts through the branch office systems of RJ&A, RJFS, RJFSA, RJ Ltd. and Raymond James Investment Services Limited (“RJIS"), a joint venture in the United Kingdom. Our financial advisors offer a broad range of investments and services, including both third-party and proprietary products, and a variety of financial planning services. We charge sales commissions or asset-based fees for investment services we provide to our Private Client Group clients based on established schedules. Varying discounts may be given, generally based upon the client's level of business, the trade size, service level provided, and other relevant factors. In fiscal year 2010, asset-based fees, including mutual fund and insurance trail annuity co
mmissions, represented 54% of the Private Client Group's commissions and fees.



The majority of our U.S. financial advisors are also licensed to sell insurance and annuity products through our general insurance agency, Planning Corporation of America (“PCA”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of RJ&A. Through the financial advisors of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, PCA provides product and marketing support for a broad range of insurance products, principally fixed and variable annuities, life insurance, disability insurance and long-term care coverage.








Our financial advisors offer a number of professionally managed load mutual funds, as well as a selection of no-load funds. RJ&A and RJFS maintain dealer sales agreements with most major distributors of mutual fund shares sold through broker-dealers.  The cost of owning mutual funds typically includes commissions, management fees, operating expenses and distribution fees.



Private Client Group Securities Commissions and FeesFor the Fiscal Years Ended September 30,2010% of Total2009% of Total2008Total(in 000’s)Equities$251,82016%$230,12118%$246,70516%Fixed Income Products68,8674%76,1446%54,0974%Mutual Funds419,26226%296,10923%379,96425%Fee-Based Accounts551,10735%412,63833%562,44237%Insurance and Annuity Products234,47415%202,71216%219,87814%New Issue Sales Credits59,8414%45,0864%69,2044%Total Private Client GroupCommissions AndFees$1,585,371100%$1,262,810100%$1,532,290100%



Net interest revenue in the Private Client Group is generated by customer balances, predominantly the earnings on margin loans and assets segregated pursuant to regulations, less interest paid on customer cash balances (“Client Interest Program”). Beginning in September 2009, we began a multi-bank sweep program which generates fee revenue in lieu of interest revenue. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this report for information regarding our net interest revenues.



Clients' transactions in securities are affected on either a cash or margin basis. RJ&A makes margin loans to clients, collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities owned by the client. Interest is charged to clients on the amount borrowed. The financing of margin purchases is an important source of revenue to RJ&A, since the interest rate paid by the client on funds loaned by RJ&A exceeds RJ&A's cost of short-term funds. The interest charged to a client on a margin loan is based on current interest rates and on the size of the loan balance in the client's account.



Typically, broker-dealers utilize bank borrowings and equity capital as the primary sources of funds to finance clients' margin account borrowings. RJ&A's primary source of funds to finance clients' margin account balances has been cash balances in brokerage clients' accounts, which are funds awaiting investment. In addition, pursuant to written agreements with clients, broker-dealers are permitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and FINRA rules to lend client securities in margin accounts to other financial institutions. SEC regulations, however, restrict the use of clients' funds derived from pledging and lending clients' securities, as well as funds awaiting investment, to the financing of margin account balances; to the extent not so used, such funds are required to be deposited in a special seg
regated account for the benefit of clients. The regulations also require broker-dealers, within designated periods of time, to obtain possession or control of, and to segregate, clients' fully paid and excess margin securities.



No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.



Raymond James & Associates



RJ&A is a full service broker-dealer that employs financial advisors in the Southeast, Midwest, Southwest and Mid-Atlantic regions of the U.S. RJ&A's financial advisors work in a traditional branch setting supported by local management and administrative staffs. The number of financial advisors per office ranges from one to 30. RJ&A financial advisors are employees and their compensation includes both commission payments and participation in the firm’s benefit plans (including profit sharing and ESOP programs). Experienced financial advisors are hired from a wide variety of competitors. In addition, new financial advisors are trained each year at the Robert A. James National Training Center in St. Petersburg, Florida.



Raymond James Financial Services



RJFS is a broker-dealer that supports independent contractor financial advisors in providing products and services to their Private Client Group clients throughout all 50 states. The number of financial advisors in RJFS offices ranges from one to 53.  Independent contractors are responsible for all of their direct costs and, accordingly, are paid a larger percentage of commissions. They are permitted to conduct, on a limited basis, certain other approved businesses unrelated to their RJFS activities such as offering insurance products, independent registered investment advisory services and accounting and tax services, among others, with the approval of RJFS management.








The Financial Institutions Division (“FID”) is a subdivision of RJFS. Through FID, RJFS services financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions, and their clients.  RJFS also provides custodial, trading and other services (including access to clients' account information and the services of the Asset Management segment) to unaffiliated independent registered investment advisors through its Investment Advisor Division (“IAD”).



Raymond James Financial Services Advisors



RJFSA is a registered investment advisor that exclusively supports the investment advisory activities of the RJFS financial advisors.



Raymond James Ltd.



RJ Ltd. is a wholly-owned self-clearing broker-dealer subsidiary in Canada with its own operations and information processing personnel.



Raymond James Investment Services Limited



We are a 75% shareholder of RJIS. This entity operates an independent contractor financial advisor network in the United Kingdom. RJIS also provides custodial and execution services to independent investment advisory firms.





The following table presents a summary of Private Client Group financial advisors as of the end of the fiscal year indicated:

EmployeeIndependent Contractors2010 Total2009 TotalPrivate Client Group - Financial Advisors:RJ&A1,266-1,2661,274RJFS-3,2373,2373,278RJ Ltd.196246442459RJIS-145145116Total Financial Advisors1,4623,6285,0905,127



The following table presents a summary of Private Client Group branch locations as of the end of the fiscal year indicated:

Traditional BranchSatellite OfficesIndependent Contractors2010 Total2009 TotalPrivate Client Group – Branch Locations:RJ&A16942-211212RJFS-5751,4001,9751,992RJ Ltd.142576115115RJIS--636352Total Branch Locations1836421,5392,3642,371





RJ&A – Operations and Information Technology



RJ&A's operations personnel are responsible for the execution of orders, processing of securities transactions, custody of client securities, support of client accounts, receipt, identification and delivery of funds and securities, compliance with certain regulatory and legal requirements and general office administration for most of our securities brokerage operations. At September 30, 2010, RJ&A employed over 750 persons in its operations areas who provide services primarily to the Private Client Group, but also support our other segments.



Our businesses are supported by, and are dependent upon, an extensive system of electronic data processing. These computer systems are largely developed and maintained by over 800 employees in our information technology department.








Since our principal operations are located in St. Petersburg, we have continued to enhance certain aspects of our business continuity plan to deal with the possible impact of future hurricanes or other events by expanding our operational and processing capabilities in an administrative office facility we operate in Southfield, Michigan. As of September 30, 2010, 26% and 8% of the employees in RJ&A’s operational and information technology areas, respectively, are located in Southfield. Our business continuity plan is designed to permit continued operation of critical business functions in the event of disruptions to the St. Petersburg facility; all mission critical business departments have developed operational plans for such disruptions, and we have a staff which devotes their full time to monitoring and facilitating thos
e plans. We maintain computer capacity to support mission critical functions at our Southfield location, and conduct some of our daily operational activities from that site. Systems have been designed so that we can transfer all mission critical processing activities to Southfield. Personnel have been identified who are assigned responsibility for this role, including some personnel who will be required to temporarily relocate to Southfield to carry out these activities if necessary.



CAPITAL MARKETS



Capital Markets activities consist primarily of equity and fixed income products and services. No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.



Institutional Sales



Institutional sales commissions account for a significant portion of this segment's revenue, which is fueled by a combination of general market activity and the Capital Markets group’s ability to identify and promote attractive investment opportunities. Our institutional clients are serviced by the RJ&A and RJ Ltd. Institutional Equity Departments, the RJ&A Fixed Income Department, RJ&A’s European offices and Raymond James Financial International Ltd, an institutional UK broker-dealer located in London. We charge commissions on equity transactions based on trade size and the amount of business conducted annually with each institution. Fixed income commissions are based on trade size and the characteristics of the specific security involved.





Capital Markets CommissionsFor the Fiscal Years Ended September 30,2010% of Total2009% of Total2008% of Total($ in 000's)Equity$222,48160%$198,21853%$229,40568%Fixed Income147,58540%174,31547%108,38532%Total Commissions$370,066100%$372,533100%$337,790100%





Approximately 100 domestic and overseas professionals in RJ&A's Institutional Equity Sales and Sales Trading Departments maintain relationships with nearly 1,200 institutional clients, principally in North America and Europe. In addition to our headquarters in St. Petersburg, Florida, RJ&A has institutional equity sales offices in New York City, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, London, Geneva, Brussels, Dusseldorf, and Paris. Some European offices also provide services to high net worth clients. RJ Ltd. has 34 institutional equity sales and trading professionals servicing predominantly Canadian institutional investors from offices in Montreal, Toronto and Vancouver.



RJ&A distributes to institutional clients both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income products, primarily municipal, corporate, government agency and mortgage-backed bonds. RJ&A carries inventory positions of taxable and tax-exempt securities in both the primary and secondary markets to facilitate institutional sales activities. In addition to St. Petersburg, the Fixed Income Department maintains institutional sales and trading offices in New York City, Chicago and 35 other cities throughout the U.S.



Trading



Trading equity securities involves the purchase and sale of securities from/to our clients or other dealers. Profits and losses are derived from the spreads between bid and asked prices, as well as market trends for the individual securities during the period we hold them.  RJ&A makes markets in approximately 990 common stocks, including some stocks not listed on the major exchanges.  Similar to the equity research department, this operation serves to support both our Institutional and Private Client Group sales efforts.  The RJ Ltd. trading desks not only support client activity, but also take proprietary positions. RJ Ltd. also provides specialist services in approximately 154 TSX listed common stocks.








RJ&A trades both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income securities. The taxable and tax-exempt RJ&A fixed income traders purchase and sell corporate, municipal, government, government agency, and mortgage-backed bonds, asset backed securities, preferred stock and certificates of deposit from/to our clients or other dealers. RJ&A enters into future commitments such as forward contracts and “to be announced” securities (e.g. securities having a stated coupon and original term to maturity, although the issuer and/or the specific pool of mortgage loans is not known at the time of the transaction). Low levels of proprietary trading positions are also periodically taken by RJ&A for various purposes and are closely monitored within well defined limits. In addition, a subsidiary of RJF, RJ Capital Services Inc., parti
cipates in the interest rate swaps market as a principal, either to economically hedge RJ&A fixed income inventory, for transactions with customers, or for its own account.



Equity Research



The domestic senior analysts in RJ&A's research department support our institutional and retail sales efforts and publish research on approximately 800 companies. This research primarily focuses on U.S. companies in specific industries including technology, telecommunications, consumer, financial services, business and industrial services, healthcare, real estate and energy. Proprietary industry studies and company-specific research reports are made available to both institutional and individual clients. RJ Ltd. has 17 analysts who publish research on approximately 230 primarily Canadian companies focused in the energy, energy services, mining, forest products, biotechnology, technology, clean technology, consumer and industrial products, and real estate sectors. Additionally, we provide coverage of approximately 90 European and
 approximately 60 Latin American companies through joint ventures in Paris and Argentina.



Investment Banking



The nearly 100 professionals of RJ&A's Investment Banking Group, located in St. Petersburg with additional offices in Atlanta, Boston, New York City, Nashville, Chicago, San Francisco, Dallas, Denver and Houston, are involved in a variety of activities including public and private equity financing for corporate clients, and merger and acquisition advisory services. RJ Ltd.'s Investment Banking Group consists of approximately 25 professionals located in Calgary, Toronto and Vancouver providing equity financing and financial advisory services to corporate clients. Our investment banking activities provide a comprehensive range of strategic and financial advisory services tailored to our clients’ business life cycles and backed by our strategic industry focus.



Fixed income investment banking includes debt underwriting and public finance activities. The 65 professionals in the RJ&A Public Finance division operate out of 16 offices (located in St. Petersburg, Birmingham, Boston, New York City, Chicago, Atlanta, Nashville, Orlando, Dallas, Naples, Charleston (WV), Clarks Hill (IN), Philadelphia, San Antonio, Austin and San Francisco). We act as a financial advisor or underwriter to various issuers which include municipal agencies including political subdivisions, housing developers and non-profit health care institutions.



RJ&A acts as a consultant, underwriter or selling group member for corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, agency bonds, preferred stock and unit investment trusts. When underwriting new issue securities, RJ&A agrees to purchase the issue through a negotiated sale or submits a competitive bid.



Syndicate



The Syndicate department consists of professionals who coordinate the marketing, distribution, pricing and stabilization of lead and co-managed equity underwritings. In addition to lead and co-managed offerings, this department coordinates the firm's syndicate and selling group activities in transactions managed by other investment banking firms.



Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc.



Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. (“RJTCF”) is the general partner or managing member in a number of limited partnerships and limited liability companies. These partnerships and limited liability companies invest in real estate project entities that qualify for tax credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code. RJTCF has been an active participant in the tax credit program since its inception in 1986 and currently focuses on tax credit funds for institutional investors that invest in a portfolio of tax credit eligible multi-family apartments. The investors’ expected returns on their investments in these funds are primarily derived from tax credits and tax losses that investors can use to reduce their federal tax liability. During fiscal 2010, RJTCF invested over $370 million for large institutional inves
tors in 46 real estate transactions for properties located throughout the U.S. From inception, RJTCF has raised over $2.8 billion in equity and has sponsored 64 tax credit funds, with investments in approximately 1,275 tax credit apartment properties in 45 states.








ASSET MANAGEMENT



Our asset management segment includes the operations of Eagle, the Eagle Family of Funds, the asset management operations of RJ&A (“AMS”), Raymond James Trust, and other fee-based programs. The majority of the revenue for this segment is generated by the investment advisory fees related to asset management services for individual investment portfolios and mutual funds.  Investment advisory fees are also earned on assets held in managed programs.  These fees are computed based on balances either at the beginning of the quarter, the end of the quarter, or average assets.  Consistent with industry practice, fees from private client investment portfolios are typically based on asset values at the beginning of the period while institutional fees are typically based on asset values at the end 
of the period.  Asset balances are impacted by both the performance of the market and the new sales and redemptions of client accounts/funds.  Increasing markets positively impact revenues from investment advisory fees as existing accounts increase in value, and individuals and institutions typically commit incremental funds in rising markets.  No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.

Eagle Asset Management, Inc.



Eagle is a registered investment advisor with $15.6 billion under management as of September 30, 2010. Eagle offers a variety of equity and fixed income objectives managed by a number of portfolio management teams and a subsidiary investment advisor, Eagle Boston Investment Management, Inc. Eagle's clients include individuals, corporations, pension and profit sharing plans, foundations, endowments, variable annuities and mutual funds.  Eagle also serves as investment advisor to the Eagle Family of Funds.  Eagle’s assets under management are comprised of 60% institutional assets, including funds managed as a sub-advisor to variable annuity accounts and mutual funds, and 40% private client assets.  The investment management fee paid to Eagle for discretionary accounts generally ranges from 0.20% to 
1.00% of asset balances per year depending upon the size, nature and investment objective(s) of the account.  Additionally, performance fees may be earned for performing above respective benchmarks.



Eagle Fund Distributors, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eagle (“EFD”), is a registered broker-dealer engaged in the distribution of the Eagle Family of Funds.



The Eagle Family of Funds utilizes unaffiliated sub-advisors for the Capital Appreciation Trust, Growth and Income Fund and the International Equity Fund.  The Small Cap Growth Fund, Mid Cap Growth Fund, Large Cap Core Fund, Mid Cap Stock Fund, Investment Grade Bond Fund, and Small Cap Core Value Fund are managed by Eagle.



Eagle closed its money market funds during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010.  Eagle class shares of both a taxable and a tax-exempt money market fund are available to clients of Eagle and its affiliates through an unrelated third-party.



Asset Management Services



AMS manages several investment advisory programs. Raymond James Consulting Services and the Eagle High Net Worth programs maintain an approved list of investment managers, provide asset allocation model portfolios, establish custodial facilities, monitor performance of client accounts, provide clients with accounting and other administrative services, and assist investment managers with certain trading management activities. AMS earns fees generally ranging from 0.35% to 0.85% of asset balances per annum, a portion of which is paid to the investment managers who direct the investment of the clients' accounts. In addition, AMS offers accounts managed within fee-based asset allocation platforms under our Freedom and other managed programs. Freedom’s investment committee manages portfolios of separately managed accounts, mutual fun
ds and exchange traded funds on a discretionary basis. AMS earns fees generally ranging from 0.10% to 0.40% of asset balances per annum. At September 30, 2010, these managed programs had $18 billion in assets under management, including $3.5 billion managed by Eagle.



For Passport, Ambassador and other non-managed fee-based accounts, AMS provides performance reporting, research, sales, accounting and other administrative services. Advisory services are provided by Private Client Group financial advisors. Fees are based on the individual account size and are also dependent on the type of securities in the accounts. Total client fees generally range from 0.50% to 3.00% of assets, and are predominantly allocated to the Private Client Group. As of September 30, 2010, these programs had $35.2 billion in assets. RJFS offers a similar advisory fee-based program called IMPAC. As of September 30, 2010, IMPAC had $9.3 billion in assets serviced by RJFS financial advisors.



In addition to the foregoing programs, AMS also administers fee-based programs for clients who have contracted for portfolio management services from non-affiliated investment advisors that are not part of the Raymond James Consulting Services program.








Raymond James Trust, National Association



Raymond James Trust, National Association, (“RJT”) provides personal trust services primarily to existing clients of the broker-dealer subsidiaries. Portfolio management of trust assets is often subcontracted to our asset management operations. This subsidiary had a total of approximately $1.7 billion in client assets at September 30, 2010, including $108 million in the donor-advised charitable foundation known as the Raymond James Charitable Endowment Fund.



RAYMOND JAMES BANK, FSB



RJ Bank is a federally chartered savings bank, regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), which provides residential, consumer and corporate loans, as well as Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insured deposit accounts, to clients of our broker-dealer subsidiaries and to the general public. RJ Bank also purchases residential whole loan packages to hold for investment and is active in bank participations and corporate loan syndications. RJ Bank generates revenue principally through the interest income earned on loans and investments, which is offset by the interest expense it pays on client deposits and on its borrowings. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this report for financial information regardin
g RJ Bank’s net interest revenues.





RJ Bank does not have any significant concentrations with any one industry or customer (see table of industry concentration in Item 7A, “Market Risk”).



EMERGING MARKETS



Raymond James International Holdings, Inc. (“RJIH”), through its subsidiaries, currently has interests in various joint ventures operating in Latin American countries including Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil. Through these entities we operate securities brokerage, investment banking, asset management and equity research businesses. No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.



STOCK LOAN/BORROW



This activity involves the borrowing and lending of securities from and to other broker-dealers, financial institutions and other counterparties, generally as an intermediary. The borrower of the securities puts up a cash deposit on which interest is earned. Accordingly, the lender receives cash and pays interest. These cash deposits are adjusted daily to reflect changes in current market value of the underlying securities. The net revenues of this operation are the interest spreads generated. No single client accounts for a material percentage of this segment's total business.



PROPRIETARY CAPITAL



This segment consists of our principal capital and private equity activities including: various direct and third-party private equity and merchant banking investments, short-term special situations and bridge investments (“Special Situations Investments”), Raymond James Employee Investment Funds I and II (the “EIF Funds”), and a private equity fund which we sponsor: Raymond James Capital Partners, L.P.  As of September 30, 2010, certain of our merchant banking investments include an investment in:  a manufacturer of crime investigation and forensic supplies, an event photography business, and an indirect investment in an allergy immunotherapy testing and treatment supply company.








We participate in profits or losses through both general and limited partnership interests. Additionally, we incur profits or losses as a result of direct merchant banking investments and Special Situations Investments. The EIF Funds are limited partnerships, for which we are the general partner, that invest in our merchant banking and private equity activities and other unaffiliated venture capital limited partnerships. The EIF Funds were established as compensation and retention vehicles for certain of our qualified key employees.



OTHER



This segment includes various corporate overhead costs, including interest expense on our senior debt issued in August, 2009.



COMPETITION



We are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. We compete with many larger, better capitalized providers of financial services, including other securities firms, most of which are affiliated with major financial services companies, insurance companies, banking institutions and other organizations. We also compete with a number of firms offering on-line financial services and discount brokerage services, usually with lower levels of service, to individual clients. We compete principally on the basis of the quality of our associates, service, product selection, location and reputation in local markets.



In the financial services industry, there is significant competition for qualified associates. Our ability to compete effectively in these businesses is substantially dependent on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel.



REGULATION



The following discussion sets forth some of the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to the financial services industry and provides some specific information relevant to us. The regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of our customers and the securities markets, our depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the protection of our creditors or shareholders. Under certain circumstances, these rules may limit our ability to make capital withdrawals from RJ Bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries.



To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions. A change in applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy may have a material effect on our business.



The financial services industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws.  The U.S. government recently enacted financial services reform legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform & Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”).  Because of the nature of our business and business practices, we do not expect this legislation to have a significant direct impact on our operations.  However, because many of the implementing regulations will result from further studies and are yet to be written by the various regulatory agencies, the impact is uncertain.  Under the new legislation, as a holding company of RJ Bank, we will become subject to the oversight of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”). 
 We anticipate that this change in our regulator will become effective in mid-2011.



The SEC is the federal agency charged with administration of the federal securities laws. Financial services firms are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in those states in which they conduct business.  RJ&A and RJFS are currently registered as broker-dealers in all 50 states. In addition, financial services firms are subject to regulation by various foreign governments, securities exchanges, central banks and regulatory bodies, particularly in those countries where they have established offices. We have offices in Europe, Canada and Latin America.



Much of the regulation of broker-dealers in the U.S. and Canada, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations ("SROs"), principally FINRA, the IIROC and securities exchanges. These SROs adopt and amend rules (which are subject to approval by government agencies) for regulating the industry and conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers.



The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. Such administrative proceedings, whether or not resulting in adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures and can have an adverse impact on the reputation of a broker-dealer.








Our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are required by federal law to belong to SIPC. When the SIPC fund falls below a certain amount, members are required to pay annual assessments to replenish the reserves. In anticipation of inadequate SIPC fund levels during the current economic environment, certain of our domestic broker-dealer subsidiaries will be required to pay 0.25% of net operating revenues, as defined by SIPC, as a special assessment.  During fiscal year 2010, $3.1 million has been incurred to satisfy this special assessment. The SIPC fund provides protection for securities held in customer accounts up to $500,000 per customer, with a limitation of $250,000 on claims for cash balances. We have purchased excess SIPC coverage through various syndicates of Lloyd’s, a London-based firm that holds an “A+R
21; rating from Standard and Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Excess SIPC is fully protected by the Lloyd’s trust funds and Lloyd’s Central Fund. The additional protection currently provided has an aggregate firm limit of $750 million, including a sub-limit of $1.9 million per customer for cash above basic SIPC. Account protection applies when a SIPC member fails financially and is unable to meet obligations to clients.  This coverage does not protect against market fluctuations.



RJ Ltd. is currently registered in all provinces and territories in Canada. The financial services industry in Canada is subject to comprehensive regulation under both federal and provincial laws. Securities commissions have been established in all provinces and territorial jurisdictions which are charged with the administration of securities laws. Investment dealers in Canada are also subject to regulation by SROs, which are responsible for the enforcement of, and conformity with, securities legislation for their members and have been granted the powers to prescribe their own rules of conduct and financial requirements of members. RJ Ltd. is regulated by the securities commissions in the jurisdictions of registration as well as by the SROs and the IIROC.



RJ Ltd. is required by the IIROC to belong to the Canadian Investors Protection Fund ("CIPF"), whose primary role is investor protection. The CIPF Board of Directors determines the fund size required to meet its coverage obligations and sets a quarterly assessment rate. Dealer members are assessed the lesser of 1.0% of revenue or a risk-based assessment. The CIPF provides protection for securities and cash held in client accounts up to CDN $1 million per client with separate coverage of CDN $1 million for certain types of accounts. This coverage does not protect against market fluctuations.



See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on SEC, FINRA and IIROC regulations pertaining to broker-dealer regulatory minimum net capital requirements.



Our investment advisory operations, including the mutual funds that we sponsor, are also subject to extensive regulation. Our U.S. asset managers are registered as investment advisors with the SEC and are also required to make notice filings in certain states. Virtually all aspects of the asset management business are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit the asset management clients.










RJ Bank applied to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) in November, 2008 to convert to a national bank.  This charter conversion also requires, by law, that RJF become a bank holding company.  Accordingly, in December 2008, RJF applied to the FRB to become a bank holding company.  To-date, these applications have not been acted upon by these agencies.



RJ Bank will become subject to regulation (including periodic examinations) by the OCC upon the earlier of its conversion to a national bank, or the transfer of the duties of the OTS to the OCC, which has been mandated under the Dodd-Frank Act.  At any given point in time, the regulation of RJ Bank will be dictated by the nature of its charter (federal thrift or national bank).  Upon conversion from a thrift to a national bank charter, RJ Bank would no longer be subject to the QTL requirement.  RJ Bank anticipates that its application will be acted upon after the transfer of the duties of the OTS to the OCC.  RJF will then become a bank holding company and can elect to become a financial holding company.  We anticipate that this change in RJ Bank’s regulator will become effecti
ve in mid-2011.



RJ Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements established by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory - and possibly additional discretionary - actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on RJ Bank's financial statements and consequently ours. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, RJ Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of RJ Bank's assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. RJ Bank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. Quantitative measures establi
shed by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require RJ Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets and Tier I capital to adjusted assets (as defined in the regulations). See Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



In addition, since RJ Bank provides products covered by FDIC insurance, RJ Bank is subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.



Our federally chartered trust company is subject to regulation by the OCC. This regulation focuses on, among other things, ensuring the safety and soundness of RJT’s fiduciary services.



As a public company whose common stock is listed on the NYSE, we are subject to corporate governance requirements established by the SEC and NYSE, as well as federal and state law. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to meet certain requirements regarding business dealings with members of our Board of Directors, the structure of our Audit Committee, and ethical standards for our senior financial officers. Under SEC and NYSE rules, we are required to comply with other standards of corporate governance, including having a majority of independent directors serve on our Board of Directors, and the establishment of independent audit, compensation and corporate governance committees.  The Dodd-Frank Act also contains a number of provisions imposing governance standards, including those regarding “Say-on-Pay”
; votes for shareholders, incentive compensation clawbacks, compensation committee independence and disclosure concerning executive compensation, employee and director hedging and chairman and CEO positions.  Most of these provisions will require the SEC to issue final regulations.



Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and to obtain an opinion from our independent auditors regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.






EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



Executive officers of the registrant (which includes officers of certain significant subsidiaries) who are not Directors of the registrant are as follows:



Jennifer C. Ackart46Senior Vice President, Controller



Paul D. Allison54Chairman, President and CEO – Raymond James Ltd. since January, 2009; Co-President and Co-CEO – Raymond James Ltd., August, 2008 – January, 2009; Executive Vice President and Vice Chairman, Merrill Lynch Canada, December, 2007 – August, 2008; Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Co-Head of Canada Investment Banking, Merrill Lynch Canada, March, 2001 – December, 2007



Richard G. Averitt, III65Chairman and CEO - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc.



Angela M. Biever57Chief Administrative Officer since May, 2008; Director, RJF, May, 1997 – April, 2008; Vice President, Intel Capital and Managing Director, Consumer Internet Sector, November, 2006 – May, 2008; General Manager, Intel New Business Initiatives, January, 1999 – November, 2006



George Catanese51Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer since October, 2005; Director, Internal Audit, November, 2001 – October, 2005



Tim Eitel61Chief Information Officer - Raymond James & Associates, Inc.



Jeffrey P. Julien54Executive Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Director and/or officer of several RJF subsidiaries



Paul L. Matecki54Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary



Steven M. Raney45President and CEO – Raymond James Bank, FSB since January, 2006; Partner and Director of Business Development, LCM Group, February, 2005 – December, 2005; various executive positions in the Tampa Bay area, Bank of America, June, 1988 – January, 2005



Richard K. Riess61Executive Vice President – Asset Management, CEO and Director of Eagle Asset Management, Inc.



Van C. Sayler55Senior Vice President - Fixed Income Capital Markets, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.



Thomas R. Tremaine54Executive Vice President - Operations and Administration, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.



Jeffrey E. Trocin51Executive Vice President - Equity Capital Markets, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.



Dennis W. Zank56President - Raymond James & Associates, Inc.



Except where otherwise indicated, the executive officer has held his or her current position for more than five years.








EMPLOYEES AND INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS



Our employees and independent contractors are vital to our success in the financial services industry. As of September 30, 2010, we have approximately 7,200 employees. As of September 30, 2010, we have approximately 3,700 independent contractors with whom we are affiliated.



OTHER INFORMATION



Our internet address is www.raymondjames.com. We make available, free of charge, through links to the SEC website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A copy of any document we file with the SEC is available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the Public Reference Room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is www.sec.gov. Investors can find financial information on
 our website under “About Our Company – Investor Relations – Financial Reports – SEC Filings”. These reports, which include certain XBRL data files, are available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also make available on our website our Annual Report to Shareholders and our proxy statements in PDF format under “About Our Company- Investors Relations – Financial Reports”.



Additionally, we make available on our website under “About Our Company – Investor Relations – Corporate Governance”, a number of our corporate governance documents. These include: the Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of the Audit Committee and the Corporate Governance, Nominating and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, the Senior Financial Officers’ Code of Ethics and the Codes of Ethics for Employees and the Board of Directors. Printed copies of these documents will be furnished to any shareholder who requests them. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report.



Factors Affecting “Forward-Looking Statements”



From time to time, we may publish “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or make oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as anticipated financial performance, future revenues or earnings, business prospects, allowance for loan loss levels at RJ Bank, projected ventures, new products, anticipated market performance, recruiting efforts, regulatory approvals, auction rate securities, and other matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. In order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, we caution readers that a variety of factors cou
ld cause our actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, are discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this report. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.



