Item 1.BUSINESS



Raymond James Financial, Inc. (“RJF” or the “Company”) is a leading diversified financial services company providing private client group, capital markets, asset management, banking and other services to individuals, corporations and municipalities.   RJF’s broker-dealer subsidiaries engage in various financial services businesses, including the underwriting, distribution, trading and brokerage of equity and debt securities and the sale of mutual funds and other investment products.  RJF and its subsidiaries also provide investment management services for retail and institutional clients, corporate and retail banking services, and trust services.



Established in 1962 and public since 1983, RJF is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “RJF.”  As a bank holding company and financial holding company, RJF is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Fed”).



RJF’s principal subsidiaries are Raymond James & Associates, Inc. (“RJ&A”), Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. (“RJFS”), Raymond James Financial Services Advisors, Inc. (“RJFSA”), Raymond James Ltd. (“RJ Ltd.”), Eagle Asset Management, Inc. (“Eagle”), and Raymond James Bank, N.A. (“RJ Bank”).  All of these subsidiaries are wholly owned by RJF.  RJF and its subsidiaries are hereinafter collectively referred to as “the firm”, “our,” “we,” or “us.”  Our operations are predominately conducted in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and Canada.



Among the keys to our historical and continued success, our emphasis on putting the client first is at the core of our corporate values. We also believe in maintaining a conservative, long-term focus in our decision making.  We believe that this disciplined decision-making approach translates to a strong, stable financial services firm for clients, advisors, associates and shareholders.





REPORTABLE SEGMENTS



We currently operate through four operating segments and our Other segment.  The four operating segments are Private Client Group (“PCG”), Capital Markets, Asset Management, and RJ Bank.  The Other segment captures private equity activities as well as certain corporate overhead costs of RJF.



The graph below depicts the relative net revenue contribution of each of our operating segments for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017:





*Chart above does not include intersegment eliminations or the Other segment.








RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



PRIVATE CLIENT GROUP



We provide financial planning and securities transaction services through branch office systems.  Financial advisors have multiple affiliation options, which we refer to as AdvisorChoice.  Our two primary affiliation options for financial advisors are the employee option and the independent contractor option.



We recruit experienced financial advisors from a wide variety of competitors.  As a part of their agreement to join us, we may make loans to financial advisors and to certain other key revenue producers, primarily for transitional cost assistance and retention purposes.



Total assets under administration in the PCG segment as ofSeptember 30, 2017amount to$659.5 billion.  We have7,346financial advisors affiliated with us as ofSeptember 30, 2017.



Employee Financial Advisors



Employee financial advisors work in a traditional branch setting supported by local management and administrative staff.  They provide services predominately to individual clients.  These financial advisors are our employees, and their compensation primarily includes commission payments and participation in the firm’s benefit plans.



Independent Contractor Financial Advisors



Our financial advisors who are independent contractors are responsible for all of their direct costs and, accordingly, are paid a larger percentage of commissions and fees than employee financial advisors. Our independent contractor financial advisor option is designed to help our advisors build their businesses with as much or as little of our support as they determine they need.  With specific approval, they are permitted to conduct, on a limited basis, certain other approved business activities, such as offering insurance products, independent registered investment advisory services, and accounting and tax services.



Irrespective of the affiliation choice, our financial advisors offer a broad range of investments and services, including both third party and proprietary products, and a variety of financial planning services.  Revenues from this segment are typically driven by total client assets under administration, and are generally either recurring fee-based or transactional in nature.  Recurring revenues include asset-based fees, trailing commissions from mutual funds and variable annuities/insurance products, mutual fund and annuity service fees, fees earned on funds in our multi-bank sweep program, and interest.  The proportion of our securities commissions and fee revenues originating from the employee versus the independent contractor affiliation models is relatively balanced.



Securities commissions and fee revenues by affiliation, as well as the portion of segment net revenues that was recurring versus transactional in nature, for the fiscal year endedSeptember 30, 2017, are presented below:










RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Through this segment:



•We provide investment services for which we charge sales commissions or asset-based fees based on established schedules.



•We offer investment advisory services.  Fee revenues for such services are computed as either a percentage of the assets in the client account or a flat periodic fee charged to the client for investment advice.



•We provide insurance and annuity products.



•We offer a number of professionally managed load and no-load mutual funds.



•We provide margin loans to clients that are collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities owned by the client. Interest is charged to clients on the amount borrowed based on current interest rates.



•We provide custodial, trading, research and other back office support and services (including access to clients’ account information and the services of the Asset Management segment) to the independent contractor registered investment advisors who are affiliated with us.



•We conduct securities borrowing and lending activities with other broker-dealers, financial institutions, and other counterparties.  The net revenues of this business consist of the interest spreads generated on these activities.



•We provide diversification strategies and alternative investment products to qualified clients of our affiliated financial advisors. We provide strategies and products for portfolio investment allocation opportunities.





CAPITAL MARKETS



Our capital markets segment conducts institutional sales, securities trading, equity research, investment banking and the syndication of investments that qualify for tax credits (referred to as our “tax credit funds”).  Within our management structure, we distinguish between activities that support equity and fixed income products and services.  We primarily conduct these activities in the U.S., Canada, and Europe.



The graph below depicts the portions of this segment’s revenues that were derived from equity securities and products, fixed income securities and products, and our tax credit funds activities for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017:












RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



We provide the following services through this segment:



Equity Capital Markets



•We earn institutional sales commissions on the sale of equity products.  Sales volume is influenced by a combination of general market activity and the Capital Markets group’s ability to identify and promote attractive investment opportunities for our institutional clients. Commission amounts on equity transactions are based on trade size and the amount of business conducted annually with each institution.



•We provide various investment banking services including public and private equity financing for corporate clients and merger & acquisition and advisory services.  Our investment banking activities include a comprehensive range of strategic and financial advisory services tailored to our clients’ business life cycles and backed by our strategic industry focus.



•Our global research department supports our institutional and retail sales efforts and publishes research on a wide variety of companies. This research primarily focuses on U.S., European and Canadian companies in specific industries, including agricultural, consumer, energy, clean energy, energy services, financial services, healthcare, industrial, mining and natural resources, forest products, real estate, technology, and communication and transportation. Proprietary industry studies and company-specific research reports are made available to both institutional and individual clients.



Fixed Income



•We earn sales commissions from institutional clients who purchase and sell both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income products, primarily municipal, corporate, government agency and mortgage-backed bonds, and whole loans. The commissions that we charge on fixed income products are based on trade size and the characteristics of the specific security involved.



•We carry inventories of taxable and tax-exempt securities to facilitate institutional sales activities.  Our fixed income traders purchase and sell corporate, municipal, government, government agency, and mortgage-backed bonds, asset-backed securities, preferred stock, and certificates of deposit from and to our clients or other dealers.



•Our fixed income investment banking services include public finance and debt underwriting activities where we serve as a financial advisor, placement agent or underwriter to various issuers, including state and local government agencies (and their political subdivisions), housing agencies, and non-profit entities including health care and higher education institutions.  When underwriting new issue securities, we may agree to purchase the issue through a negotiated sale or submission of a competitive bid.



•In our over-the-counter market activities, we enter into interest rate swaps and futures contracts either to facilitate client transactions or to actively manage risk exposures that arise from our client activity, including a portion of our trading inventory.  In addition, we conduct a “matched book” derivatives business where we may enter into interest rate derivative transactions with clients.  In this matched book business, for every derivative transaction we enter into with a client, we enter into an offsetting derivative transaction with a credit support provider that is a third party financial institution.



•Through our fixed income public finance operations, we enter into forward commitments to purchase Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”) or Federal National Mortgage Association (“FNMA”) mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”).  Such MBS are issued on behalf of various state and local housing finance agencies (“HFA”) clients and consist of the mortgages originated through their lending programs.



Tax Credit Funds



•In our syndication of tax credit investments, one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner or managing member in partnerships and limited liability companies that invest in real estate project entities which qualify for tax credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code. We earn fees for the origination and sale of these investment products as well as for the oversight and management of the investments over the statutory tax credit compliance period.





ASSET MANAGEMENT



Our Asset Management segment provides investment advisory and asset management services to individual and institutional investors, and also sponsors a family of mutual funds.  We also provide services to our PCG clients through our asset management services division and through Raymond James Trust, N.A. (“RJ Trust”).








RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



We earn investment advisory and related administrative fees on both managed and non-discretionary asset-based accounts.  In managed programs, decisions are made by in-house or third-party portfolio managers or investment committees about how to invest the assets in accordance with such programs’ objectives.  In non-discretionary asset-based programs, we provide administrative support, which may include trade execution, record-keeping and periodic investor reporting.  We generally earn higher fees for managed programs than for non-discretionary asset-based programs, since we provide additional services to managed programs.  As ofSeptember 30, 2017, there were$96.4 billionin financial assets held in managed programs and$157.0 billionin financial assets held in non-discretionary asset-based programs.



The graph below depicts financial assets under management in our managed programs by objective as ofSeptember 30, 2017:











RJ BANK



RJ Bank provides corporate (commercial and industrial (“C&I”), commercial real estate (“CRE”) and CRE construction), securities-based (“SBL”), tax-exempt and residential loans.  RJ Bank is active in corporate loan syndications and participations.  RJ Bank also provides Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insured deposit accounts to clients of our broker-dealer subsidiaries and to the general public.  RJ Bank generates net interest revenue principally through the interest income earned on loans and an investment portfolio, which is offset by the interest expense it pays on client deposits and on its borrowings.



RJ Bank operates primarily from a branch location adjacent to RJF’s corporate office complex in St. Petersburg, Florida. Access to RJ Bank’s products and services is available through the offices of our affiliated broker-dealers as well as through electronic banking services.  RJ Bank’s assets include C&I loans, commercial and residential real estate loans, tax-exempt loans, as well as loans fully collateralized by marketable securities. Corporate and tax-exempt loans represent approximately 67% of RJ Bank’s loan portfolio, of which 90% are U.S. and Canadian syndicated loans. Residential mortgage loans are originated or purchased and held for investment or sold in the secondary market. RJ Bank’s investment portfolio is comprised primarily of agency MBS and collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMOs”) and is classified as available-for-sale.  RJ Bank’s liabilities primarily consist of deposits that are cash balances swept from the investment accounts of PCG clients.








RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



RJ Bank had total assets of$20.61 billionatSeptember 30, 2017, which were comprised of the following:









OTHER



Our Other segment includes our private equity activities as well as certain corporate overhead costs of RJF, such as the interest cost on our senior notes payable, and the acquisition and integration costs associated with certain acquisitions (SeeNote 3of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) for additional information on our acquisitions).



Our private equity activities include various direct and third party private equity investments and various private equity funds which we sponsor.





EMPLOYEES AND INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS



Our employees and independent contractors (collectively “associates”) are vital to our success in the financial services industry.  As ofSeptember 30, 2017, we had over 12,700 employees and over 4,300 affiliated independent contractor financial advisors.





OPERATIONS AND INFORMATION PROCESSING



We have operations personnel at various locations throughout the U.S. who are responsible for processing securities transactions, custody of client securities, support of client accounts, the receipt, identification and delivery of funds and securities, and compliance with regulatory and legal requirements for most of our U.S. securities brokerage operations. RJ Ltd. operations personnel have similar responsibilities at our Canadian brokerage operations located in Vancouver, British Columbia.



The information technology department develops and supports the integrated solutions that provide a differentiated platform for our businesses.  This platform is designed to allow our financial advisors to spend more time with their clients and enhance and grow their businesses.



In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect both our own information as well as that of our clients.  We apply numerous safeguards to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of both client and Company information.



Our business continuity program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance that we will continue to operate in the event of disruptions at our critical facilities.  Our business departments have developed operational plans for such disruptions, and we have a staff which devotes its full time to monitoring and facilitating those plans.  Our business continuity plan continues to be enhanced and






RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



tested to allow for continuous operations in the event of weather-related or other interruptions at our corporate headquarters in Florida or one of our operations processing or data center sites in Florida, Colorado, Tennessee or Michigan.



We have also developed a business continuity plan for each of our PCG retail branches in the event any of these branches is impacted by severe weather.





COMPETITION



The financial services industry is an intensely competitive business. We compete with many other financial services firms, including a number of larger securities firms, most of which are affiliated with major financial services companies, insurance companies, banking institutions and other organizations. We also compete with companies that offer web-based financial services and discount brokerage services, usually with lower levels of service, to individual clients. We compete principally on the basis of the quality of our associates, services, product selection, location and reputation in local markets.



Our ability to compete effectively in these businesses is substantially dependent on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel.





REGULATION





The following discussion summarizes the principal elements of the regulatory and supervisory framework applicable to RJF.  The framework is intended to protect our clients, the integrity of the financial markets, our depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and is not intended to protect our creditors or shareholders.  These rules and regulations limit our ability to engage in certain activities, as well as our ability to submit funds to RJF from our regulated subsidiaries, which include RJ Bank and our broker-dealer subsidiaries.  To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions that are referenced.  A change in applicable statutes or regulations or in regulatory or supervisory policy may have a material effect on our business.



Rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act



In July 2010, the U.S. government enacted sweeping changes to the supervision and regulation of the financial industry through the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”).  The Dodd-Frank Act required U.S. federal banking and other regulatory agencies to conduct hundreds of rulemakings, studies and reports.  These regulatory agencies include: the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”); the Fed; the OCC; the FDIC; the CFPB; and the Financial Stability Oversight Council.  Certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately; however, the details of some provisions are subject to implementing regulations.  Furthermore, some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are still subject to further rulemaking proceedings and studies and will take effect over the next several years.



As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulatory reforms, we are experiencing a period of unprecedented change in financial regulation and supervision.  These changes could have a significant impact on how we conduct our business. Many regulatory or supervisory policies remain in a state of flux and may be subject to amendment in the near future.  As a result, we cannot specifically quantify the impact that such regulatory or supervisory requirements will have on our business and operations (see Item 1A, “Risk






RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Factors,” within this report for further discussion of the potential future impact on our operations).  Below, we highlight certain of the more significant changes brought about as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and related measures.



FDIC Assessment Rates



Since RJ Bank provides deposits covered by FDIC insurance, generally up to $250,000 per account ownership type, RJ Bank is subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.  In February 2011, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC issued a final rule changing its assessment base.  For banks with greater than $10 billion in assets, the FDIC’s new rule changed the assessment rate calculation, which relies on a scorecard designed to measure financial performance and ability to withstand stress in addition to measuring the FDIC’s exposure should the bank fail.



CFPB Oversight



In July 2011, the CFPB began operations and was given rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws applicable to all banks and was provided broad powers to supervise and enforce federal consumer protection laws.  The CFPB has supervisory and enforcement powers under several consumer protection laws, including the: (i) Equal Credit Opportunity Act; (ii) Truth in Lending Act; (iii) Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act; (iv) Fair Credit Reporting Act; (v) Fair Debt Collection Act; (vi) Consumer Financial Privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices under section 1031 of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Beginning with fiscal year 2014, the CFPB assumed supervisory authority over RJ Bank for its compliance with the various federal consumer protection laws.  The CFPB has authority to promulgate regulations, issue orders, draft policy statements, conduct examinations, and bring enforcement actions.  The creation of the CFPB has led to enhanced enforcement of consumer protection laws.  To the extent that, as a result of such heightened scrutiny and oversight, we become the subject of any enforcement activity, we may be required to pay fines, incur penalties, or engage in certain remediation efforts.



Stress Tests



In October 2012, the Fed, FDIC and OCC jointly issued final rules requiring certain bank holding companies, state member banks, and savings and loan companies with total assets between $10 billion and $50 billion to conduct annual company-prepared stress tests, report the results to their primary regulator and the Fed (RJF’s primary regulator), and publish a summary of the results.  Stress tests must be conducted using certain scenarios (baseline, adverse, and severely adverse) prescribed by the Fed.  A summary of certain of our stress test results (RJF and RJ Bank) is available on our website atwww.raymondjames.com/investor-relations/financial-reportunder “Other Reports and Information - 2017 Annual Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test Disclosure” (the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report).



The Volcker Rule



RJF is subject to the Volcker Rule, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act which generally prohibits, subject to exceptions, insured depository institutions, bank holding companies and their affiliates (together, “banking entities”) from engaging in proprietary trading and limits investments in and relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds (“covered funds”).  Banking entities must establish a Volcker Rule-specific compliance program.  We have adopted a program, which is designed to be effective in ensuring compliance with the Volcker Rule; however, in connection with their examinations, regulators will assess the sufficiency and adequacy of our program.



We maintain a number of private equity investments, some of which meet the definition of covered funds under the Volcker Rule.  The conformance period for compliance with the rule with respect to investments in covered funds was July 2017; however, banking entities were able to apply for an extension to provide up to an additional five years to conform investments in certain illiquid funds.  The majority of our covered fund investments meet the criteria to be considered an illiquid fund under the Volcker Rule and we received approval from the Fed to continue to hold such investments until July 2022.  The extension of the conformance deadline provides us with additional time to realize the value of these investments in due course and to execute appropriate strategies to comply with the Volcker Rule at such time.  Our current focus is on the divestiture of our existing portfolio.



Basel III and U.S. Capital Rules



Both RJF, as a bank holding company, and RJ Bank are subject to capital requirements that have increased due to regulatory actions in recent years.  In July 2013, the OCC, the Fed and the FDIC released final U.S. rules implementing the Basel III capital framework developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions and updated the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the new regulatory capital minimums (the “U.S. Basel III Rules”).  The U.S. Basel III Rules: (i) increase the quantity and quality of regulatory capital; (ii) establish a capital conservation buffer; and (iii) make changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets.  The U.S. Basel III Rules became effective for RJF on January 1, 2015, subject to applicable






RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



phase-in periods.  The rules governing the capital conservation buffer became effective for both RJF and RJ Bank as of January 1, 2016.  SeeNote 21of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for information regarding RJF and RJ Bank regulatory capital levels and ratios, including information regarding the capital conservation buffer.  The increased capital requirements could restrict our abilities to grow during favorable market conditions and to return capital to shareholders, or require us to raise additional capital.  As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.  See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” within this report for more information.



Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger discretionary, and in certain cases, mandatory actions by regulators that could have a direct material effect on the financial results of RJF and RJ Bank.  Under capital adequacy guidelines, RJF and RJ Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices.  The capital amounts and classification for RJF and RJ Bank are also subject to the qualitative judgments of U.S. regulators based on components of capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors.  Quantitative measures established by federal banking regulations to ensure capital adequacy require that RJF, as a financial holding company, and RJ Bank maintain minimum amounts and ratios of: (i) Common Equity Tier 1 (or “CET1”), Tier 1 and Total capital to risk-weighted assets; (ii) Tier 1 capital to average assets; and (iii) capital conservation buffers.  SeeNote 21of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, for further information.



Money Market Reform



In July 2014, the SEC adopted amendments to the rules that govern money market mutual funds.  The amendments make structural and operational reforms to address risks of excessive withdrawals over relatively short time frames by investors from money market funds, while preserving the benefits of the funds.  We do not sponsor any money market funds.  We utilize such funds in limited circumstances for our own investment purposes as well as to offer our clients money market funds that are sponsored by third parties as one of several cash sweep alternatives.



Municipal Advisor Regulation



In 2013 as required under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC issued its final rule regarding the new category of regulated financial activity: “municipal advisors” (the “MA Rule”).  The MA Rule, which became effective in 2014: (i) imposes a fiduciary duty on municipal advisors when advising municipal entities; (ii) may result in the need for new written representations by issuers; and (iii) may limit the manner in which we, in our capacity as an underwriter or in our other professional roles, interact with municipal issuers.  In addition to the SEC rule, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”) has developed a number of implementing rules and interpretive guidance relating to municipal advisors, and we have implemented policies and procedures reasonably designed to comply with such rules and guidance.



While over these past few years, broker-dealer and municipal advisor interaction with municipal entities has become an area of greater rulemaking and regulatory exam and enforcement interest, we do not expect a materially adverse impact on our public finance results of operations, which are included in our Capital Markets segment.



Fiduciary Duty Standard



Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors.  The SEC has stated that it will consider a heightened standard of care; however, to date, it has not yet proposed any rules.  In April 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor (the “DOL”) issued its final regulation (the “DOL Rule”) expanding the definition of who is deemed an “investment advice fiduciary” under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), as a result of giving investment advice to a “plan,” “plan participant” or “beneficiary,” as well as under the Internal Revenue Code for individual retirement arrangements (“IRAs”) and non-ERISA plans (collectively, “qualified plans”).  As a result of adopting a new definition of “fiduciary” under ERISA, the final rule extends fiduciary status to many investment professionals that had not been considered fiduciaries under previous law.  A fiduciary is subject to strict duties to act solely in the interests of plan participants and beneficiaries and is personally liable to the ERISA plan for breaches in its discharge of its duties.



The DOL Rule also contains exemptions, including the Best Interest Contract exemption (the “BIC Exemption”) and Principal Transactions in Certain Assets exemption (the “Principal Transactions Exemption”), designed to enable investment professionals that become fiduciaries to continue to operate under existing business models that would otherwise be prohibited, subject to compliance with new conditions.  In order to rely on these exemptions, we are required to: (i) act under defined impartial conduct standards that are in the best interest of our client; (ii) adopt certain anti-conflict policies and procedures; (iii) provide disclosure of certain information relating to fees, compensation and defined “material conflicts of interest;” (iv) provide a written acknowledgment of fiduciary status;






RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



and (v) for IRAs and non-ERISA plans, enter into an enforceable contract with our client that contains extensive warranties and does not allow exculpatory provisions waiving the client’s rights and remedies, including the right to participate in a class action in court.  The DOL Rule became effective as of June 2016, subject to a phase-in of the fiduciary definition in June 2017, and also subject to a further transition period until January 1, 2018 applying to both the BIC Exemption and Principal Transactions Exemption.  In August 2017, the DOL recommended that the transition period be extended until July 1, 2019.



We have undertaken a comprehensive plan to comply with the DOL Rule.  As qualified accounts, particularly IRA accounts, comprise a significant portion of our business, we expect that compliance with the DOL Rule and reliance on the BIC Exemption and the Principal Transactions Exemption will require us to continue to incur increased levels of legal, compliance and information technology costs.  As discussed above, we may also face enhanced legal risks.  We anticipate that amendments to the scope of the DOL Rule or the adoption of any new rule by the SEC will require us to review and possibly modify our compliance plan and approach, which may also lead to additional costs.  In addition, state laws that impose a fiduciary duty also may require monitoring, as well as require that we undertake additional compliance measures.



Incentive-Based Compensation Arrangements



Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, six federal agencies are charged with jointly prescribing regulations or guidelines related to the prohibition of incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks at certain financial institutions.  The agencies have released a proposed rule that would prohibit certain forms of incentive-based compensation arrangements for financial institutions with greater than $1 billion in total assets (the “Incentive-Based Compensation Proposal”).  Much of the Incentive-Based Compensation Proposal would apply to financial institutions categorized as either “Level 1” institutions (assets of $250 billion or more) or “Level 2” institutions (assets of $50 billion to $250 billion), while “Level 3” institutions (assets of $1 billion to $50 billion) would be subject to less extensive obligations.  All covered financial institutions would be required to, among other requirements: (i) annually document the structure of their incentive-based compensation arrangements; (ii) retain records of such annual documentation for at least seven years; and (iii) comply with general prohibitions on incentive-based compensation arrangements that could encourage inappropriate risk-taking.  Should the Incentive-Based Compensation Proposal be adopted, we would be subject to the rule’s requirements as a “Level 3” financial institution, which would require us to incur additional legal and compliance costs, as well as subject us to increased legal risks.



Other regulations applicable to our operations



The SEC is the federal agency charged with administration of the federal securities laws in the United States.  Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to SEC regulations relating to their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping, privacy requirements, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.  Financial services firms are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in those states in which they conduct business.  RJ&A and RJFS are currently registered as broker-dealers in all 50 states.



Broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers and others, and are required to keep their assets in relatively liquid form.  These rules also limit the ability of broker-dealers to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates.  The SEC has adopted amendments to its financial stability rules, many of which became effective as of October 2013 and are applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, including changes to the: (i) net capital rule; (ii) customer protection rule; (iii) record-keeping rules; and (iv) notification rules.



Financial services firms are subject to regulation by various foreign governments, securities exchanges, central banks and regulatory bodies, particularly in those countries where they have established offices. Outside of the United States, we have additional offices primarily in Canada and Europe and are subject to regulations in those areas. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers in the United States and Canada, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (“IIROC”) and securities exchanges.  These SROs adopt and amend rules for regulating the industry, subject to the approval of government agencies.  These SROs also conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers.



The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. Such administrative proceedings, whether or not resulting in adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures and may adversely impact the reputation of a broker-dealer.



Our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act (“SIPA”) and are required by federal law to be members of the Securities Investors Protection Corporation (“SIPC”).  The SIPC was established under SIPA, and oversees the






RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



liquidation of broker-dealers during liquidation or financial distress.  The SIPC fund provides protection for cash and securities held in client accounts up to $500,000 per client, with a limitation of $250,000 on claims for cash balances.



Our investment advisory operations, including the mutual funds that we sponsor, are also subject to extensive regulation in the United States.  Our U.S. asset managers are registered as investment advisors with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 as amended (the “Investment Advisers Act”), and are also required to make notice filings in certain states. Virtually all aspects of our asset management business are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations.  These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit the asset management clients.



RJ Bank is also subject to the Community Reinvestment Act (the “CRA”).  The CRA is intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound bank operations.  Under the CRA, the Fed, the FDIC and the OCC are required to periodically examine and assign to each bank a public CRA rating.  Members of the public may submit comments on a bank’s performance under the CRA; such comments will form part of the bank’s performance evaluation.  The results of the evaluation, together with the bank’s CRA rating, are also taken into consideration when evaluating mergers, acquisitions, and applications to open a branch or facility.  RJ Bank could face additional requirements and limitations should it fail to adequately meet the criteria stipulated under the CRA.



RJ Ltd. is currently registered in all provinces and territories in Canada.  The financial services industry in Canada is subject to comprehensive regulation under both federal and provincial laws.  Securities commissions have been established in all provinces and territorial jurisdictions, which are charged with the administration of securities laws.  Investment dealers in Canada are also subject to regulation by SROs, which are responsible for the enforcement of, and conformity with, securities legislation for their members and have been granted the powers to prescribe their own rules of conduct and financial requirements of members. RJ Ltd. is regulated by each of the securities commissions in the jurisdictions of registration, as well as by the SROs and IIROC.  IIROC requires that RJ Ltd. be a member of the Canadian Investors Protection Fund (the “CIPF”), whose primary role is investor protection.  The CIPF provides protection for securities and cash held in client accounts up to $1 million Canadian currency (“CDN”) per client, with separate coverage ofCDN$1 million for certain types of accounts.  SeeNote 21of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information on SEC, FINRA and IIROC regulations pertaining to broker-dealer regulatory minimum net capital requirements.



In Europe, the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation and a revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (together, “MiFID II”), will take effect on January 3, 2018, and will introduce comprehensive and new trading and market infrastructure reforms in the European Union, including new trading venues, enhancements to pre- and post-trading transparency, and additional investor protection requirements, among others. Although the full impact of these changes remains unclear, we have made changes to our European operations, including systems and controls, in order to be in compliance with MiFID II.



Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001



The Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (“Patriot Act”) and requirements administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) require financial institutions, among other things, to implement a risk-based program reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and to combat the financing of terrorism, including through suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting, compliance, record-keeping and due diligence on customers.  The Patriot Act also contains financial transparency laws and enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms for the U.S. government, including: due diligence and record-keeping requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; and rules to produce certain records upon request of a regulator or law enforcement and to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering and other crimes.  Failure to meet the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act, the Patriot Act, or OFAC can lead to supervisory actions including fines.










RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



Executive officers of the registrant (which includes officers of certain significant subsidiaries) are as follows:





Jennifer C. Ackart53Senior Vice President since August 2009 and Controller since February 1995



Bella Loykhter Allaire64Executive Vice President - Technology and Operations - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since June 2011;  Managing Director and Chief Information Officer - UBS Wealth Management Americas, November 2006 - January 2011



Paul D. Allison61Chairman, President and CEO - Raymond James Ltd. since January 2009; Co-President and Co-CEO - Raymond James Ltd., August 2008 - January 2009



James E. Bunn44Co-President - Global Equities and Investment Banking - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since October 2017; Head of Investment Banking - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since January 2014; Co-Head of Technology Services Investment Banking - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., May 2009 - December 2013



John C. Carson, Jr.61President since April 2012; President - Morgan Keegan & Company, LLC, formerly known as Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc., since July 2013; Chief Executive Officer and Executive Managing Director - Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc., March 2008 - July 2013



George Catanese58Senior Vice President since October 2005 and Chief Risk Officer since February 2006



Scott A. Curtis55President - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. since January 2012; Senior Vice President - Private Client Group - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., July 2005 - December 2011



Jeffrey A. Dowdle53President - Asset Management Group since May 2016; Executive Vice President - Asset Management Group, February 2014 - May 2016; President - Asset Management Services - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., January 2005 - February 2014; Senior Vice President - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., January 2005 - February 2014



Tashtego S. Elwyn46President - Private Client Group - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since January 2012; Regional Director - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., October 2006 - December 2011



Thomas A. James75Chairman Emeritus since February 2017; Executive Chairman, May 2010 - February 2017



Jeffrey P. Julien61Executive Vice President - Finance since August 2009, Chief Financial Officer since April 1987 and Treasurer since February 2011; Director and/or officer of several RJF subsidiaries



Steven M. Raney52President and CEO - Raymond James Bank, N.A. since January 2006



Paul C. Reilly63Chairman since February 2017 and Chief Executive Officer since May 2010; Director since January 2006; President, May 2009 - April 2010



Jonathan N. Santelli46Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 2016; Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel - First Republic Bank, October 2013 to April 2016; Managing Director and Associate General Counsel - Preferred and Small Business Banking - Bank of America, December 2011 - August 2013; Managing Director and Associate General Counsel - Private Wealth Management - Bank of America, October 2009 - November 2011



Jeffrey E. Trocin58Co-President - Global Equities and Investment Banking - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since October 2017; President - Global Equities and Investment Banking - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., July 2013 - October 2017; Executive Vice President - Equity Capital Markets - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., February 2001 - July 2013



Dennis W. Zank63Chief Operating Officer since January 2012; Chief Executive Officer - Raymond James & Associates, Inc. since January 2012; President - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., December 2002 - December 2011



Except where otherwise indicated, the executive officer has held his or her current position for more than five years.










RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



OTHER INFORMATION



Our Internet address is www.raymondjames.com.  We make available on our website, free of charge and in printer-friendly format including “.pdf” file extensions, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.





Factors affecting “forward-looking statements”







