Item 1A. Risk Factors



Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant to our business.



We have customer concentration with the U.S. Government; reduction in U.S. Government defense spending may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.



Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, the U.S. Government committed to significantly reduce the federal deficit over ten years. As a result, long-term funding for various programs in which we participate, as well as future purchasing decisions by our U.S. Government customers, could be reduced, delayed or cancelled. In addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. There are many variables in how these budget cuts could be implemented that make it difficult to determine specific impacts; however, we expect that sequestration, as currently provided for under the Budget Control Act, would result in lower revenues, profits and cash flows for our company. Such circumstances may also result in an impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets.  Because our U.S. Government contracts generally require us to continue to perform even if the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments; if, for example, the debt ceiling is not raised, and, as a result, our customer does not pay us on a timely basis, we may need to finance our continued performance of the impacted contracts from our other resources on an interim basis. An extended delay in the timely payment by the U.S. Government could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.



U.S. Government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions.

The U.S. Government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract.  In the event of termination for the U.S. Government’s convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed.  A termination arising out of our default for failure to perform could expose us to liability, including but not limited to, all costs incurred under the contract plus potential liability for re-procurement costs in excess of the total original contract amount, less the value of work performed and accepted by the customer under the contract.  Such an event could also have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government whether for convenience or default, our backlog and anticipated revenues would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts.  We also enter into











“fee for service” contracts with the U.S. Government where we retain ownership of, and consequently the risk of loss on, aircraft and equipment supplied to perform under these contracts.  Termination of these contracts could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. On contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor.  In addition, in the event that the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments, failure to continue contract performance places the contractor at risk of termination for default.  Any such event could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.



As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to procurement rules and regulations.



As a U.S. Government contractor, our businesses and systems are subject to audit and review by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA).

We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its agencies such as DCAA and DCMA. These agencies review our performance under contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to U.S. Government contractors. The systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting, estimating, material management and accounting, earned value management, purchasing and government property systems. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions that may include the termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. Government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate.  These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business.



Cost overruns on U.S. Government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business.



Demand for our aircraft products is cyclical and could adversely affect our financial results.

Demand for business jets, turbo props and commercial helicopters has been cyclical and difficult to forecast. Therefore, future demand for these products could be significantly and unexpectedly less than anticipated and/or less than previous period deliveries. Similarly, there is uncertainty as to when or whether our existing commercial backlog for aircraft products will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability. Changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or cancelled. Reduced demand for our aircraft products or delays or cancellations of orders could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.











We may make acquisitions that increase the risks of our business.

We may enter into acquisitions in an effort to expand our business and enhance shareholder value. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that could result in our not achieving expected benefits.  Such risks include difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner; challenges in achieving expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits; the risk that the acquired businesses’ markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the acquired businesses’ products and technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; the risk that our due diligence reviews of the acquired business do not identify or adequately assess all of the material issues which impact valuation of the business or that may result in costs or liabilities in excess of what we anticipated; the risk that we pay a purchase price that exceeds what the future results of operations would have merited; the risk that the acquired business may have significant internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions; and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers and employees of the acquired businesses.  In addition, unanticipated delays or difficulties in effecting acquisitions may prevent the consummation of the acquisition or divert the attention of our management and resources from our existing operations.



If our Finance segment is unable to maintain portfolio credit quality, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

A key determinant of the financial performance of our Finance segment is the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its portfolio. Portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral value, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of general economic conditions. In addition, a majority of the new originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the U.S.  Cross-border transactions present additional challenges and risks in realizing upon collateral in the event of borrower default, which may result in difficulty or delay in collecting on the related finance receivables.  If our Finance segment has difficulty successfully collecting its finance receivable portfolio, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.



We may need to obtain financing in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all.

We may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. Our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. If we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.



Failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance.



Our business could be negatively impacted by information technology disruptions and security threats.











mitigation processes and procedures are robust.  Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, the possibility of future material incidents cannot be completely mitigated. An IT system failure, issues related to implementation of new IT systems or breach of data security, whether of our systems or the systems of our service providers or other third parties who may have access to our data for business purposes, could disrupt our operations, cause the loss of business information or compromise confidential information. Such an incident also could require significant management attention and resources and increased costs, and could adversely affect our competitiveness and our results of operations.



Developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties.



We are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.

During 2016, we derived approximately 38% of our revenues from international business, including U.S. exports, and we expect international revenues to continue to increase. Conducting business internationally exposes us to additional risks than if we conducted our business solely within the U.S. We maintain manufacturing facilities, service centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries.  We also have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, joint venture arrangements in emerging market countries, some of which may require capital investment, guaranties or other commitments.  Risks related to international operations include import, export and other trade restrictions; changing U.S. and foreign procurement policies and practices; restrictions on technology transfer; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; increasing complexity of employment and environmental, health and safety regulations; foreign investment laws; exchange controls; repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, competition from foreign and multinational firms with home country advantages; economic and government instability, acts of terrorism and related safety concerns.  The impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.



Additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, technology transfers, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. The contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements which are often subjective. We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we maintain policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, a violation of such laws by any of our international representatives, consultants, joint ventures, business partners, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.



We are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results.

As a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. Our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls across international borders on a regular basis. For example, we sometimes initially must obtain licenses and authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain of our aerospace and defense products outside the U.S. Both U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. For example, both U.S. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the











aviation industry, and they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels. Changes in environmental laws and regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as “green initiatives,” could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs or manufacturing processes and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. New or changing laws and regulations or related interpretation and policies could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations, adversely impact demand for our products, and/or limit our ability to sell our products and services. Compliance with laws and regulations of increasing scope and complexity is even more challenging in our current business environment in which reducing our operating costs is often necessary to remain competitive. In addition, a violation of U.S. and/or foreign laws by one of our employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, such as denial of import or export privileges and/or debarment as a government contractor which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business.



We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims.

We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; alleged lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters.  Due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by weather or by pilot, driver or user error. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such claims could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. In addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future.  Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments, receive adverse arbitration awards or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period.



Intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers.

Intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. Any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. In addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. The inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cybersecurity threats.



Certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues.

As a distributor of consumer products in the U.S., certain of our products also are subject to the Consumer Product Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the CPSC could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the CPSC. The CPSC also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. Furthermore, failure to timely notify the CPSC of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. Any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future.



The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results.

Our earnings and cash flow may be adversely impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. This is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. Additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could negatively impact the funded status of our plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders’ equity. Also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans.











Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues.

Approximately 7,300, or 28%, of our U.S. employees are unionized, andmany of our non-U.S. employees are represented by organized councils. As a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. The presence of unions also may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace. In addition, the workforces of many of our suppliers and customers are represented by labor unions. Work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes; similar actions at the plants of our customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations.



Currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results.

We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. Currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates could adversely affect our profitability in future periods. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our results of operations.



We may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures.

In some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to OEMs, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. However, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected.



Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the location of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings indefinitely reinvested offshore, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income, as well as changes to applicable statutory tax rates.  In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability.



