
10-K405
FORM 10-K405 V. F. CORPORATION





                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                   OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended JANUARY 3, 1998


                      Commission file number:   1-5256


                        ----------------------------

                               V. F. CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



           PENNSYLVANIA                              23-1180120
          (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. employer
         incorporation or organization)        identification number)


                              1047 NORTH PARK ROAD
                        WYOMISSING, PENNSYLVANIA  19610
                    (Address of principal executive offices)


                                 (610) 378-1151
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)



         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:





      SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  YES  X   NO ___


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [X]









As of March 3, 1998, 121,296,498 shares of Common Stock of the registrant were
outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the common shares (based on the
closing price of these shares on the New York Stock Exchange) of the registrant
held by nonaffiliates was approximately $4.7 billion.  In addition, 1,824,820
shares of Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock of the registrant were
outstanding and convertible into 2,919,712 shares of Common Stock of the
registrant, subject to adjustment.  The trustee of the registrant's Employee
Stock Ownership Plan is the sole holder of such shares, and no trading market
exists for the Series B ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Report for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1998 (Item 1
in Part I and Items 5, 6, 7 and 8 in Part II).

Portions of the Proxy Statement dated March 17, 1998 for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on April 21, 1998 (Item 4A in Part I and Items 10, 11,
12 and 13 in Part III).









                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

VF Corporation, through its operating subsidiaries, designs, manufactures and
markets branded jeanswear, intimate apparel, knitwear, children's playwear and
other apparel.  VF Corporation, organized in 1899, oversees the operations of
its subsidiaries, providing them with financial and administrative resources.
Management of each marketing unit is responsible for the growth and development
of its business, within guidelines established by VF Corporation management.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the term "Company" used herein means VF
Corporation and its subsidiaries.

BUSINESS ORGANIZATION

Through 1996, VF operated as a group of relatively autonomous businesses, with
the management of each business unit responsible for its own manufacturing,
marketing and administrative functions, within guidelines established by VF
Corporation management.  Beginning in late 1996, the Company's organizational
structure was changed, resulting in the previously separate operating
businesses being consolidated into five consumer-focused marketing coalitions -
- - Jeanswear, Intimate Apparel, Knitwear, Playwear and International.  The
individual marketing functions have remained as separate business units,
allowing marketing specialists to build and develop their brands.  However,
many of the Company's sourcing, manufacturing and administrative functions,
previously performed in separate operating units, are carried out under this
new management structure on either a coalition or a Company-wide basis.  This
reorganization, along with the transition to common computer systems and the
rollout of other shared services on a Company-wide basis, is continuing and is
expected to be completed in 2000.  These changes, plus investments in new
business systems and processes, are expected to result in significant annual
cost savings.

Information regarding the operations, sales and profitability of the Company,
plus information regarding foreign and domestic operations and sales by product
categories, is included in pages 22, 23 24 and 31 of the Company's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1998 ("1997 Annual
Report"), which information is incorporated herein by reference.

         JEANSWEAR COALITION

The Jeanswear Coalition includes the Company's jeanswear and related casual
apparel products for the North and South American markets, plus occupational
apparel products.

Jeanswear products are manufactured and marketed under the LEE(R),
WRANGLER(R), RUSTLER(R) and RIDERS(R) brands in the United States and the LEE
and WRANGLER brands in Canada and Mexico.  The Company also offers cotton
casual pants and shirts under the LEE CASUALS(R) and TIMBER CREEK BY
WRANGLER(R) brands.  During 1997, the Company acquired the BRITTANIA(R) brand
and expects to introduce a line of BRITTANIA brand jeanswear products during
1998.  Also during 1997, the Company acquired certain operating assets of its
former LEE licensees in Chile and Brazil.  The Company expects to continue its
expansion into other countries in South America.









In domestic markets, LEE branded products are sold through department and
specialty stores. WRANGLER westernwear is marketed through western specialty
stores, and other WRANGLER brand products are sold primarily through the mass
merchant and discount store channels.  The RUSTLER and RIDERS brands are
marketed to national discount chains.  Sales for all brands are generally made
directly to retailers through full-time salespersons.

According to industry data, approximately 593 million pairs of jeans made of
denim, twill, corduroy and other fabrics were sold in the United States in
1997, representing an increase of 4.8% over 1996.  This same data indicates
that the Company currently has the largest combined unit market share at
approximately 27%, with the WRANGLER, LEE and RUSTLER brands having the second,
third and fourth largest unit shares of the jeans market in the United States,
respectively.

Occupational apparel is also included in the Jeanswear Coalition.  The Company
is a leading producer of occupational and career apparel sold under the RED
KAP(R) label.   Approximately three-fourths of sales are to industrial
laundries that in turn supply work clothes to employers, primarily on a rental
basis, for on-the-job wear by production, service and white-collar personnel.
Products include work pants, slacks, work and dress shirts, overalls, jackets
and smocks.  The Company expanded its presence in safety apparel in the United
States and Canada by acquiring the BULWARK(R) brand in 1996.  Because
industrial laundries maintain minimal inventories of work clothes, a supplier's
ability to offer rapid delivery is an important factor in this market.  The
Company's commitment to customer service, supported by an automated central
distribution center with ten satellite locations, has enabled customer orders
to be filled within 24 hours of receipt and has helped the RED KAP brand obtain
a significant share of the industrial laundry rental business.  In addition,
the Company markets a line of work clothes nationally to retail stores under
the BIG BEN(R) brand.

         INTIMATE APPAREL COALITION

The Intimate Apparel Coalition includes the Company's intimate apparel
businesses in the United States, along with the Company's swimwear, casual
sportswear and daypack businesses.

In women's intimate apparel, the Company manufactures and markets bras,
panties, daywear, shapewear, robes and sleepwear products under the VANITY
FAIR(R) label for sales to domestic department and specialty stores.  Bras,
panties, daywear and shapewear are manufactured under the VASSARETTE(R) brand
for sales to the discount channel.  The Company also has a significant private
label lingerie business in the United States.  Most products are sold through
the Company's sales force.  In January 1998, the Company expanded its domestic
intimate apparel presence with the acquisition of Bestform Group, Inc., a
company having several brands sold through the department and discount channels
of distribution.

The Company designs, manufactures and markets an extensive line of women's
swimwear and sportswear, including coordinated tops and bottoms, under the
JANTZEN(R) trademark and under the licensed NIKE(R) label.  Products are sold
primarily to department and specialty stores in the United States and Canada
through the Company's sales force.  The JANTZEN trademark is licensed to other
companies in several foreign countries.








The Company manufactures and markets JANSPORT(R) brand daypacks sold through
department and sports specialty stores and college bookstores and WOLF CREEK(R)
brand daypacks through discount stores.  JANSPORT daypacks and bookbags have
the leading brand share in the United States.  JANSPORT branded fleece
casualwear and T-shirts imprinted with college logos are sold through college
bookstores.  In addition, JANSPORT backpacking and mountaineering gear is sold
through outdoor and sporting goods stores.

         KNITWEAR COALITION

The Knitwear Coalition includes the manufacturing and marketing of knitted
fleecewear and T-shirts.  Approximately one-half of the knitwear sales are for
private label accounts, including NIKE, Inc. and various national chain,
department and discount stores.  Blank fleece and T-shirt products are marketed
under the LEE brand to wholesalers and garment screen printing operators.

The Company also designs, manufactures and markets imprinted sports apparel
under licenses granted by the four major American professional sports leagues,
NASCAR and other parties.  LEE SPORT(R) and NUTMEG(R) branded adult licensed
apparel is distributed through department, sporting goods and athletic
specialty stores.  CSA(R) branded products, primarily in children's sizes, are
distributed through mass merchandisers and discount stores.

         PLAYWEAR COALITION

The Playwear Coalition consists of infant and children's apparel manufactured
and marketed under the HEALTHTEX(R) brand and under the licensed NIKE(R) brand.
Products marketed under the HEALTHTEX  and NIKE labels are sold primarily to
department and specialty stores.  In addition, playwear and sleepwear products
imprinted with characters and images licensed from The Walt Disney Company and
others are marketed primarily to mass merchandise and discount stores.  In
March 1998, management made the decision to exit the licensed character
business at the end of 1998.

         INTERNATIONAL COALITION

The International Coalition consists of jeanswear and intimate apparel
businesses outside of North and South America.  The largest component is the
jeanswear operation in Europe, where the Company manufactures and markets LEE,
WRANGLER and MAVERICK(R) jeanswear and related products.   Jeanswear in Europe
is more of a fashion product and has a higher relative price than similar
products in the United States.  Sales are primarily in Western Europe, but with
increasing sales in Eastern Europe.  LEE and WRANGLER jeanswear products are
sold through department stores and specialty shops, while the MAVERICK brand is
sold in the discount channel of distribution.  Jeanswear products are sold to
retailers through the Company's sales forces and independent sales agents.  The
Company has distributors, agents or licensees for LEE and WRANGLER jeanswear
and related products in foreign markets where the Company does not have owned
operations.  The Company also manufactures and markets LEE products in China
and participates in a joint venture in Spain and Portugal.

The Company manufactures and markets women's intimate apparel in Europe.
Intimate apparel is marketed in department and specialty stores under the
LOU(R) and BOLERO(R) brand names primarily in








France and under the GEMMA(R), INTIMA CHERRY(R) and BELCOR(R) brands in Spain.
Intimate apparel is marketed in discount stores in France under the
VARIANCE(R), CARINA(R) and SILTEX(R) brands.

RAW MATERIALS AND MANUFACTURING

Raw materials include fabrics made from cotton, synthetics and blends of cotton
and synthetic yarn.  For most domestic operations, the Company purchases fabric,
primarily from several domestic suppliers, against scheduled production.  The
Company also purchases thread and trim (buttons, zippers, snaps and lace) from
numerous suppliers.

For domestic operations, purchased fabric is cut in domestic facilities and is
sewn into finished garments in owned domestic and offshore manufacturing
facilities.  In addition, the Company contracts the sewing of products from
independent domestic and foreign contractors.  To obtain a more balanced
sourcing mix, an increasing percentage of fabric cut in the Company's domestic
facilities is sewn into finished products in lower cost offshore plants,
primarily in Mexico and the Caribbean Basin.  By the end of 1997, approximately
45% of domestic sales were derived from products manufactured outside the
United States.

In the Company's domestic knitwear and intimate apparel businesses, operations
are vertically integrated and include the entire process of converting yarn
into finished garments.   The Company knits purchased yarn into fabric in its
facilities.  The knit fabric is then dyed, finished and cut in domestic
facilities before it is sewn into finished garments.  Cotton yarn and cotton
and synthetic blend yarn are purchased from a major textile company under a
long-term supply agreement for the knitwear operations.  Yarn is available from
numerous other sources.

In the Company's International Coalition, fabric, thread and trim are purchased
from several international suppliers.  In the European jeanswear operations,
fabric is cut and sewn into finished garments in owned plants in the United
Kingdom, Ireland, Malta and Poland, with the balance (mostly tops) sourced from
independent contractors.  In intimate apparel, fabric is sewn into finished
garments in owned plants in France, Spain, Tunisia and Madagascar, with the
remainder manufactured by independent contractors.  To obtain a more balanced
sourcing mix, jeanswear and intimate apparel sourcing is being shifted from
owned plants in Western Europe to lower cost owned and contracted production
outside of Western Europe.  At the end of 1997, approximately 70% of sales were
derived from Company-owned plants.

The Company has not experienced difficulty in obtaining fabric and other raw
materials to meet production needs during 1997 and does not anticipate
difficulties in 1998.  The loss of any one supplier would not have a
significant adverse effect on the Company's business.

SEASONALITY

The apparel industry in the United States has four primary retail selling
seasons -- Spring, Summer, Back-to-School and Holiday, while international
markets typically have Spring and Fall selling seasons.  Sales to retailers
generally precede the retail selling seasons, although demand peaks have been
reduced in recent years as more products are being sold on a replenishment
basis.









Overall, with its diversified product offerings, the Company's operating
results are not highly seasonal. On a quarterly basis, consolidated net sales
range from a low of approximately 22% of full year sales in the first quarter
to a high of 27% in the third quarter.  Sales in the Knitwear Coalition,
however, are more seasonal in nature, with approximately 60% of its sales of
fleece and T-shirt products in the second half of the year.

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year.  Working capital
increases during the first half of the year as inventory builds to support peak
shipping periods, and accordingly decreases during the second half.  Cash
provided by operations is substantially higher in the second half of the year
due to higher  net income and reduced working capital requirements during that
period.

ADVERTISING

The Company supports its brands through extensive advertising and promotional
programs and through sponsorship of special events.  The Company advertises on
national and local radio and television and in consumer and trade publications.
It also participates in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with
major retailers in radio, television and various print media.  In addition,
point-of-sale fixtures and signage are used to promote products at the retail
level.  During 1997, the Company spent $309 million advertising and promoting
its products, compared with $271 million in 1996.  A significant portion of the
savings arising from the 1995 cost reduction initiatives (see Note M to the
consolidated financial statements in the 1997 Annual Report) are being invested
in increased advertising and other actions to support and build the Company's
brands.  The level of consumer research, in-store marketing programs and
advertising is expected to increase in 1998.

OTHER MATTERS

         COMPETITIVE FACTORS

The apparel industry is highly competitive and consists of a number of domestic
and foreign companies.  Management believes that there are only two competitors
in the United States that have consolidated assets and sales greater than those
of the Company.  However, in certain product categories in which the Company
operates, there are several competitors that have more assets and sales than
the Company in those categories.

         TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES

Trademarks are of material importance to all of the Company's marketing
efforts.  Company-owned brands are protected by registration or otherwise in
the United States and most other markets where the Company's brands are sold.
These trademark rights are enforced and protected by litigation against
infringement as necessary.  The Company has granted licenses to other parties
to manufacture and sell products under the Company's trademarks in product
categories and in geographic areas in which the Company does not operate.

In some instances, the Company pays a royalty to use the trademarks of others.
Apparel is manufactured and marketed under licenses granted by Major League
Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Football League,
the National Hockey League, NIKE, Inc., The Walt Disney








Company and others.  Some of these license arrangements are for a short term
and may not contain specific renewal options.  Management  believes that loss
of any license would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

         CUSTOMERS

The Company's customers are primarily department, specialty and discount stores
in the United States and in international markets, primarily in Europe.  Sales
to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. totaled 11.1% of total sales in 1997 and 10.3% in
1996.  Sales to the Company's ten largest customers amounted to 38% of total
sales in 1997 and 37% in 1996.

         EMPLOYEES

The Company employs approximately 63,400 men and women.  Approximately 5,200
employees are covered by various collective bargaining agreements.  Employee
relations are considered to be good.

         BACKLOG

The dollar amount of backlog of orders believed to be firm as of any fiscal
year-end is not material for an understanding of the business of the Company
taken as a whole.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements included in Item 1 - "Business" and Item 7 -"Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" are
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
This includes any statements concerning plans and objectives of management
relating to the Company's operations or economic performance, and assumptions
related thereto.  In addition, the Company and its representatives may from
time to time make other oral or written statements that are also
forward-looking statements.

These forward-looking statements are made based on management's expectations
and beliefs concerning future events impacting the Company and therefore
involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Management cautions that
forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could
differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking
statements.

Important factors that could cause the actual results of operations or
financial condition of the Company to differ include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the overall level of consumer spending for apparel; changes in
trends in the segments of the market in which the Company competes;  the
financial strength of the retail industry; actions of competitors that may
impact the Company's business; and the impact of unforeseen economic changes in
the markets where the Company competes, such  as changes in interest rates,
currency exchange rates, inflation rates, recession, and other external
economic and political factors over which the Company has no control.








ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

The Company owns most of its facilities used in manufacturing, distribution and
administrative activities.  Certain other facilities are leased under operating
leases that generally contain renewal options.  Management believes all
facilities and machinery and equipment are in good condition and are suitable
for the Company's needs.  Manufacturing and distribution facilities being
utilized at the end of 1997 are summarized below:



In addition, the Company owns or leases various administrative and office space
having 1,863,000 square feet of space and owns or leases facilities having
2,859,000 square feet that are used for factory outlet operations.
Approximately 77% of the factory outlet space is used for selling and
warehousing the Company's products, with the balance consisting of space leased
to tenants and common areas.  Finally, the Company owns facilities having
576,000 square feet of space formerly used in its operations but now leased to
other parties or held for sale.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is a party to litigation arising in the ordinary course of its
business.  In management's opinion, there are no pending claims or litigation,
the outcome of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.


ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

The following are the executive officers of VF Corporation as of March 3, 1998.
The term of office of each of the executive officers continues to the next
annual meeting of the Board of Directors to be held April 21, 1998.  There is
no family relationship among any of the VF Corporation executive officers.










Mr. McDonald joined the Company's Lee division in 1983, serving in various
management positions until his election as President of the Company's former
Troutman division in 1984.  He was named Executive Vice President of the
Wrangler division in 1986 and President of Wrangler in 1988.  He was named
Group Vice President of the Company in 1991, President of the Company in
October 1993 and Chief Executive Officer in January 1996.  Additional
information is included on page 4 of the 1998 Proxy Statement.

Mrs. Cummings joined the Company as Vice President - General Counsel in January
1995 and became Vice President - Administration & General Counsel in March 1996
and Secretary in October 1997.  Previously, she had been a senior business
partner at the international law firm of Dechert Price & Rhoads where she had
been employed since 1972.

Mr. Johnson joined the Company in 1988 as Vice President - Finance and Chief
Financial Officer.

Mr. Lambeth joined the Company in 1968 and has served in various finance,
administrative and marketing positions.  He served as president of the
Company's Healthtex division from 1991 to 1992

                            
         







and president of Lee Company from 1992 to July 1996.  He was elected a Vice
President of the Company in July 1996 and President - European & Asian
Operations in August 1996.

Mr. MacFarlan joined the Company's Jantzen division in 1978 and served in
various capacities, including Vice President - Womens Casualwear from 1990 to
1992 and Senior Vice President - Sales and Womens Casualwear to July 1993.  He
served as President of the Company's VF Factory Outlet division from October
1993 to February 1995.   He was elected as President of the Company's Nutmeg
division in November 1994 and was elected as the Company's Chairman - Decorated
Knitwear & Playwear Coalitions in February 1995, which was expanded in July
1996 to Chairman - Knitwear, Playwear & Intimate Apparel Coalitions, and Vice
President in April 1995.

Mr. Pickard joined the Company in 1976 and was elected Assistant Controller in
1982, Assistant Treasurer in 1985, Treasurer in 1987 and Vice President -
Treasurer in April 1994.

Mr. Schamberger joined the Company's Wrangler division in 1972 and held various
positions including Vice President - New Brands from 1987 to his election as
Vice President - Consumer Marketing in 1991 and President in May 1992.  He was
elected as the Company's Chairman - Jeanswear Coalition in February 1995 and
Vice President in April 1995.

Mr. Shearer joined the Company in 1986 as Assistant Controller and was elected
Controller in 1989 and Vice President - Controller in April 1994.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.

Information concerning the market and price history of the Company's Common
Stock, plus dividend information, as reported under the caption "Quarterly
Results of Operations" on page 24  and under the captions "Investor Information
- - Common Stock, Shareholders of Record, Dividend Policy, Dividend Reinvestment
Plan, Dividend Direct Deposit and Quarterly Common Stock Price Information" on
page 37 of the 1997 Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

Selected financial data for the Company for each of its last five fiscal years
under the caption "Summary of Operations" on pages 34 and 35 of the 1997 Annual
Report is incorporated herein by reference.








ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

A discussion of the Company's financial condition and results of operations is
incorporated herein by reference to pages 22 and 23 of the 1997 Annual Report.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

Financial statements of the Company and specific supplementary financial
information are incorporated herein by reference to pages 22 through 33 of the
1997 Annual Report.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

Not applicable.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

Information under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 2 through 5 of
the 1998 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  See Item 4A with
regard to Executive Officers.

Information under the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" on page 21 of the 1998 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

Information on pages 11 through 16 of the 1998 Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

Information under the caption "Certain Beneficial Owners" on page 18 and
"Common Stock Ownership of Management" on page 19 of the 1998 Proxy Statement
is incorporated herein by reference.








ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

Information under the caption "Election of Directors" with respect to Mr.
Crutchfield on page 2 and with respect to Messrs. Hurst and Sharp on page 3 of
the 1998 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)      The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

                 1.       Financial statements - Included on pages 24 through
         32 of the 1997 Annual Report (Exhibit 13) and incorporated by
         reference in Item 8:

         Consolidated statements of income - - Fiscal years ended January 3,
         1998, January 4, 1997 and  December 30, 1995

         Consolidated balance sheets - - January 3, 1998 and January 4, 1997

         Consolidated statements of cash flows - - Fiscal years ended January
         3, 1998, January 4, 1997 and December 30, 1995

         Consolidated statements of common shareholders' equity - - Fiscal
         years ended January 3, 1998, January 4, 1997 and December 30, 1995

         Notes to consolidated financial statements

         Report of independent accountants

                 2.       Financial statement schedules - The following
         consolidated financial statement schedule is included herein:

         Schedule II - - Valuation and qualifying accounts

         All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
         accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are
         not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and
         therefore have been omitted.








                 3.       Exhibits
































All other exhibits for which provision is made in the applicable regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related
instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

There were no reports on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter of the fiscal
year ended January 3, 1998.








SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             V.F. CORPORATION

                                             By:  /s/ Mackey J. McDonald
                                                -------------------------
                                                     Mackey J. Mcdonald
                                                     President
                                                     (Chief Executive Officer)

                                             By:  /s/ Gerard G. Johnson
                                                ----------------------------
                                                     Gerard G. Johnson
                                                     Vice President - Finance
                                                     (Chief Financial Officer)

                                             By:  /s/ Robert K. Shearer
                                                ----------------------------
                                                     Robert K. Shearer
                                                     Vice President -Controller
                                                     (Chief Accounting Officer)


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:







                                 VF CORPORATION

                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



(A)  Deductions include accounts written off, net of recoveries.

(B)  Deduction relates to circumstances where it is more likely than not that
     deferred tax assets will be realized.






                                 VF CORPORATION
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS














