ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General

Our principal business activities are the development, marketing and distribution of branded performance apparel, footwear and accessories for men, women and youth. The brand’s moisture-wicking fabrications are engineered in many designs and styles for wear in nearly every climate to provide a performance alternative to traditional products. Our products are sold worldwide and are worn by athletes at all levels, from youth to professional, on playing fields around the globe, as well as by consumers with active lifestyles.

Our net revenues are generated primarily from the wholesale sales of our products to national, regional, independent and specialty retailers. We also generate net revenue from the sale of our products through our direct to consumer sales channel, which includes our brand and factory house stores and websites, and from product licensing. A large majority of our products are sold in North America; however we believe that our products appeal to athletes and consumers with active lifestyles around the globe. Internationally, our net revenues are generated from a mix of wholesale sales to retailers, sales to distributors and sales through our direct to consumer sales channels in overfifteencountries in Europe, Latin America, and Asia. In addition, a third party licensee sells our products in Japan and Korea. We plan to continue to grow our business over the long term through increased sales of our apparel, footwear and accessories, expansion of our wholesale distribution, growth in our direct to consumer sales channel and expansion in international markets. Virtually all of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated manufacturers operating primarily in19countries outside of the United States.

In December 2013, we acquired MapMyFitness, Inc. (“MapMyFitness”), a digital connected fitness platform with a community of over 20 million registered users. We plan to engage and grow this community through the development of innovative digital products that enable users to lead healthier lifestyles. We also believe this platform and community will increase awareness and sales of our existing product offerings through our North American wholesale and direct to consumer channels.

We were incorporated as a Maryland corporation in 1996. As used in this report, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Under Armour” and the “Company” refer to Under Armour, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. We have registered trademarks around the globe, including UNDER ARMOUR®, HEATGEAR®, COLDGEAR®, ALLSEASONGEAR®and the Under Armour UA Logo, and we have applied to register many other trademarks. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains additional trademarks and tradenames of our Company and our subsidiaries. All trademarks and tradenames appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective holders.



Products

Our product offerings consist of apparel, footwear and accessories for men, women and youth. We market our products at multiple price levels and provide consumers with products that we believe are a superior alternative to traditional athletic products. In2013, sales of apparel, footwear and accessories represented76%,13%and9%of net revenues, respectively. Licensing arrangements, primarily for the sale of our products, represented the remaining2%of net revenues. Refer to Note16to the Consolidated Financial Statements for net revenues by product.

Apparel

Our apparel is offered in a variety of styles and fits intended to enhance comfort and mobility, regulate body temperature and improve performance regardless of weather conditions. Our apparel is engineered to replace traditional non-performance fabrics in the world of athletics and fitness with performance alternatives designed and merchandised along gearlines. Our three gearlines are marketed to tell a very simple story about our highly technical products and extend across the sporting goods, outdoor and active lifestyle markets. We market our apparel for consumers to choose HEATGEAR®when it is hot, COLDGEAR®when it is cold and ALLSEASONGEAR®between the extremes. Within each gearline our apparel comes in three primary fit types: compression (tight fit), fitted (athletic fit) and loose (relaxed).



HEATGEAR®is designed to be worn in warm to hot temperatures under equipment or as a single layer. While a sweat-soaked traditional non-performance T-shirt can weigh two to three pounds, HEATGEAR®is engineered with a microfiber blend designed to wick moisture from the body which helps the body stay cool, dry and light. We offer HEATGEAR®in a variety of tops and bottoms in a broad array of colors and styles for wear in the gym or outside in warm weather.









COLDGEAR®is designed to wick moisture from the body while circulating body heat from hot spots to help maintain core body temperature. Our COLDGEAR®apparel provides both dryness and warmth in a single light layer that can be worn beneath a jersey, uniform, protective gear or ski-vest, and our COLDGEAR®outerwear products protect the athlete, as well as the coach and the fan from the outside in. Our COLDGEAR®products generally sell at higher prices than our other gearlines.

ALLSEASONGEAR®is designed to be worn in between extreme temperatures and uses technical fabrics to keep the wearer cool and dry in warmer temperatures while preventing a chill in cooler temperatures.

Footwear

We began offering footwear for men, women and youth in 2006, and each year we have expanded our footwear offerings. Our footwear offerings include football, baseball, lacrosse, softball and soccer cleats, slides, performance training footwear, running footwear, basketball footwear and hunting boots. Our footwear is light, breathable and built with performance attributes for athletes. Our footwear is designed with innovative technologies which provide stabilization, directional cushioning and moisture management engineered to maximize the athlete’s comfort and control.

Accessories

Accessories primarily includes the sale of headwear, bags and gloves. Our accessories include HEATGEAR® and COLDGEAR® technologies and are designed with advanced fabrications to provide the same level of performance as our other products.

License and Other

We also have agreements with our licensees to develop Under Armour apparel and accessories. Our product, marketing and sales teams are actively involved in all steps of the design process in order to maintain brand standards and consistency. During2013, our licensees offered socks, team uniforms, baby and kids’ apparel, eyewear and inflatable footballs and basketballs that feature performance advantages and functionality similar to our other product offerings.

In December 2013, we acquired MapMyFitness, which offers digital fitness platform licenses and subscriptions, along with digital advertising. License revenues generated from the sale of apparel and accessories and the use of the MapMyFitness platform are included in our net revenues.



Marketing and Promotion

We currently focus on marketing and selling our products to consumers primarily for use in athletics, fitness, training and outdoor activities. We seek to drive consumer demand by building brand equity and awareness that our products deliver advantages that help athletes perform better.

Sports Marketing

Our marketing and promotion strategy begins with providing and selling our products to high-performing athletes and teams on the high school, collegiate and professional levels. We execute this strategy through outfitting agreements, professional and collegiate sponsorships, individual athlete agreements and by providing and selling our products directly to team equipment managers and to individual athletes. As a result, our products are seen on the field, giving them exposure to various consumer audiences through the internet, television, magazines and live at sporting events. This exposure to consumers helps us establish on-field authenticity as consumers can see our products being worn by high-performing athletes.

We are the official outfitter of athletic teams in several high-profile collegiate conferences. We are an official supplier of footwear and gloves to the National Football League (“NFL”) and we are the official combine scouting partner to the NFL with the right to sell combine training apparel beginning in 2012. In addition, in 2011 we became the Official Performance Footwear Supplier of Major League Baseball and became a partner with the National Basketball Association (“NBA”) which allows us to market our NBA athletes in game uniforms in connection with our basketball footwear.

Internationally, we are providing and selling our products to European soccer and rugby teams. Beginning with the 2012 season, we provide the Tottenham Hotspur Football Club with performance apparel, including training wear and playing kit for the Club’s First and Academy teams, together with replica product for the Club’s supporters around the world. We are the official technical kit supplier to the Welsh Rugby Union and have exclusive retail rights on the replica products. Beginning in 2014, we became the official kit supplier of the Chilean football club, Corporación Club Social y Deportivo Colo-Colo.

We also seek to sponsor events to drive awareness and brand authenticity from a grassroots level. We host combines, camps and clinics for many sports at regional sites across the country for male and female athletes. These events, along with the









products we make, are designed to help young athletes improve their training methods and their overall performance. We are also the title sponsor of a collection of high school All-America Games that create significant on-field product and brand exposure that contributes to our on-field authenticity.

Media

We feature our products in a variety of national digital, broadcast, and print media outlets. We also utilize social marketing to engage consumers and promote conversation around our brand and our products.

Retail Presentation

The primary component of our retail marketing strategy is to increase and brand floor space dedicated to our products within our major retail accounts. The design and funding of Under Armour concept shops within our major retail accounts has been a key initiative for securing prime floor space, educating the consumer and creating an exciting environment for the consumer to experience our brand. Under Armour concept shops enhance our brand’s presentation within our major retail accounts with a shop-in-shop approach, using dedicated floor space exclusively for our products, including flooring, lighting, walls, displays and images.



Sales and Distribution

The majority of our sales are generated through wholesale channels, which include national and regional sporting goods chains, independent and specialty retailers, department store chains, institutional athletic departments and leagues and teams. In addition, we sell our products to independent distributors in various countries where we generally do not have direct sales operations and through licensees.

We also sell our products directly to consumers through our own network of brand and factory house stores in our North America and Asia operating segments, and through our website operations in North America and certain countries in Europe. These factory house stores serve an important role in our overall inventory management by allowing us to sell a significant portion of excess, discontinued and out-of-season products while maintaining the pricing integrity of our brand in our other distribution channels. Through our brand house stores, consumers experience our brand first-hand and have broader access to our performance products. In2013, sales through our wholesale, direct to consumer and licensing channels represented68%,30%and2%of net revenues, respectively.

We believe the trend toward performance products is global and plan to continue to introduce our products and simple merchandising story to athletes throughout the world. We are introducing our performance apparel, footwear and accessories outside of North America in a manner consistent with our past brand-building strategy, including selling our products directly to teams and individual athletes in these markets, thereby providing us with product exposure to broad audiences of potential consumers.

Our primary business operates in four geographic segments: (1) North America, comprising the United States and Canada, (2) Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), (3) Asia, and (4) Latin America. Each of these geographic segments operate predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and distribution of performance apparel, footwear and accessories. Beginning in December 2013, we also operate our acquired MapMyFitness business as a separate segment. As our international and MapMyFitness operating segments are currently not material, we combine them into other foreign countries and businesses for reporting purposes. The following table presents net revenues by segment for each of the years endingDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011:

Year ended December 31,201320122011(In thousands)Net Revenues% ofNet RevenuesNet Revenues% ofNet RevenuesNet Revenues% ofNet RevenuesNorth America$2,193,73994.1%$1,726,73394.1%$1,383,34693.9%Other foreign countries and businesses138,3125.9108,1885.989,3386.1Total net revenues$2,332,051100.0%$1,834,921100.0%$1,472,684100.0%

North America

North America accounted for94%of our net revenues for2013. We sell our branded apparel, footwear and accessories in North America through our wholesale and direct to consumer channels. Net revenues generated from the sales of our products in United States were $2,082.5 million, $1,650.4 millionand $1,325.8 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively, and substantially all of our long-lived assets were located in the United States. In2013, ourtwolargest









customers were, in alphabetical order, Dick’s Sporting Goods and The Sports Authority. These two customers accounted for a total of22%of our total net revenues in2013, and one of these customers individually accounted for at least 10% of our net revenues in2013.

Our direct to consumer sales are generated primarily through our brand and factory house stores and websites. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had 117 factory house stores in North America, of which the majority is located in outlet centers throughout the United States. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had 6 brand house stores in North America. Consumers can purchase our products directly from our e-commerce website, www.underarmour.com.

In addition, we earn licensing income in North America based on our licensees’ sale of socks, team uniforms, baby and kids’ apparel, eyewear and inflatable footballs and basketballs, as well as the distribution of our products to college bookstores and golf pro shops. In order to maintain consistent quality and performance, we pre-approve all products manufactured and sold by our licensees, and our quality assurance team strives to ensure that the products meet the same quality and compliance standards as the products that we sell directly.

We distribute the majority of our products sold to our North American wholesale customers and our brand and factory house stores from distribution facilities we lease and operate in California and Maryland. In addition, we distribute our products in North America through third-party logistics providers with primary locations in Canada, New Jersey and Florida. In some instances, we arrange to have products shipped from the independent factories that manufacture our products directly to customer-designated facilities.



Other Foreign Countries and Businesses

Approximately6%of our net revenues were generated outside of North America and though our acquired MapMyFitness business. We plan to continue to grow our business over the long term in part through expansion in international markets.

EMEA

We sell our apparel, footwear and accessories through retailers and our websites in certain European countries. We also sell our apparel, footwear and accessories to independent distributors in various European countries where we do not have direct sales operations. In addition, we sell our branded products to various sports clubs and teams in Europe. In 2012, we began selling the United Kingdom's Tottenham Hotspur Football Club replica product for the Club’s supporters around the world.

We generally distribute our products to our retail customers and e-commerce consumers in EMEA through a third-party logistics provider based out of Venlo, The Netherlands. This agreement continues until 2015.

Asia

Since 2002 we have had a license agreement with Dome Corporation, which produces, markets and sells our branded apparel, footwear and accessories in Japan and Korea. We are actively involved with this licensee to develop variations of our products for the different sizes, sports interests and preferences of Japanese and Korean consumers. Our branded products are sold in Japan and Korea to independent specialty stores and large sporting goods retailers and to professional sports teams. We made a cost-based minority investment in Dome Corporation in January 2011.

We also sell our apparel, footwear and accessories to independent distributors in Australia, New Zealand and Taiwan where we do not have direct sales operations.

We sell our products in China through a limited number of brand and factory house stores we directly operate and stores operated by our franchise partners, primarily located in Shanghai and Beijing, China. We also distribute our products to our retail customers in Asia through a third-party logistics provider based out of Hong Kong.

Latin America

We sell to Latin American consumers through independent distributors in Latin American countries where we do not have direct sales operations. We generally distribute our products in this region through our distribution facilities in the United States.

In June 2013, we signed an agreement to acquire certain assets of our distributor in Mexico. Following the close of the acquisition in January 2014, we began selling our products in Mexico directly rather than through a distributor. In 2014, we will begin selling our products directly in Brazil and Chile.











MapMyFitness

In December 2013, we acquired MapMyFitness, which offers digital fitness platform licenses and subscriptions, along with digital advertising.



Seasonality

Historically, we have recognized a majority of our net revenues and a significant portion of our income from operations in the last two quarters of the year, driven primarily by increased sales volume of our products during the fall selling season, including our higher priced cold weather products, along with a larger proportion of higher margin direct to consumer sales. The level of our working capital generally reflects the seasonality and growth in our business.We generally expect inventory, accounts payable and certain accrued expenses to be higher in the second and third quarters in preparation for the fall selling season.



Product Design and Development

Our products are manufactured with technical fabrications produced by third parties and developed in collaboration with our product development team. This approach enables us to select and create superior, technically advanced fabrics, produced to our specifications, while focusing our product development efforts on design, fit, climate and product end use.

We seek to regularly upgrade and improve our products with the latest in innovative technology while broadening our product offerings. Our goal, to deliver superior performance in all our products, provides our developers and licensees with a clear, overarching direction for the brand and helps them identify new opportunities to create performance products that meet the changing needs of athletes. We design products with “visible technology,” utilizing color, texture and fabrication to enhance our customers’ perception and understanding of product use and benefits.

Our product development team works closely with our sports marketing and sales teams as well as professional and collegiate athletes to identify product trends and determine market needs. For example, these teams worked closely to identify the opportunity and market for our CHARGED COTTON®products, which are made from natural cotton but perform like our synthetic products, drying faster and wicking away moisture from the body, and our Storm Fleece products with a unique, water-resistant finish that repels water, without stifling airflow. In 2013, we introduced ColdGear® Infrared, a ceramic print technology on the inside of our garments that provides athletes with lightweight warmth.



Sourcing, Manufacturing and Quality Assurance

Many of the specialty fabrics and other raw materials used in our products are technically advanced products developed by third parties and may be available, in the short term, from a limited number of sources. The fabric and other raw materials used to manufacture our products are sourced by our manufacturers from a limited number of suppliers pre-approved by us. In2013, approximately50%to55%of the fabric used in our products came fromsixsuppliers. These fabric suppliers have primary locations inChina, Malaysia, Mexico, Taiwan and Vietnam. We strengthened our relations with key strategic suppliers in 2013, while also continuing to seek new suppliers to diversify our source base. The fabrics used by our suppliers and manufacturers are primarily synthetic fabrics and involve raw materials, including petroleum based products that may be subject to price fluctuations and shortages. CHARGED COTTON®products that we introduced in 2011 continue to perform strongly in the market. This product primarily uses cotton fabrics that may also be subject to commodity price fluctuations and shortages.

Substantially all of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated manufacturers and, in


,

fourteen

manufacturers produced approximately

65%

of our products, with primary locations in Jordan, Philippines, China, Nicaragua. Malaysia, Cambodia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Mexico, El Salvador and Honduras. In


, our products were manufactured by


primary manufacturers, operating in


countries, with approximately

66%

of our products manufactured in

Asia

,

14%

in

Central and South America

,

15%

in

the Middle East

and

5%

in

Mexico

. All manufacturers are evaluated for quality systems, social compliance and financial strength by our quality assurance team prior to being selected and on an ongoing basis. Where appropriate, we strive to qualify multiple manufacturers for particular product types and fabrications. We also seek out vendors that can perform multiple manufacturing stages, such as procuring raw materials and providing finished products, which helps us to control our cost of goods sold. We enter into a variety of agreements with our manufacturers, including non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, and we require that all of our manufacturers adhere to a code of conduct regarding quality of manufacturing and working conditions and other social concerns. We do not, however, have any long term agreements requiring us to utilize any manufacturer, and no manufacturer is required to produce our products in the long term. We have a subsidiary in Hong Kong to support our manufacturing, quality assurance and sourcing efforts for apparel and a subsidiary in









Guangzhou, China to support our manufacturing, quality assurance and sourcing efforts for footwear and accessories. We also manufacture a limited number of apparel products, primarily for high-profile athletes and teams, on-premises in our quick turn, Special Make-Up Shop located at one of our distribution facilities in Maryland.



Inventory Management

Inventory management is important to the financial condition and operating results of our business. We manage our inventory levels based on existing orders, anticipated sales and the rapid-delivery requirements of our customers.Our inventory strategy is focused on continuing to meet consumer demand while improving our inventory efficiency over the long term by putting systems and processes in place to improve our inventory management. These systems and processes are designed to improve our forecasting and supply planning capabilities. In addition to systems and processes, key areas of focus that we believe will enhance inventory performance are added discipline around the purchasing of product, production lead time reduction, and better planning and execution in selling of excess inventory through our factory house stores and other liquidation channels.

Our practice, and the general practice in the apparel, footwear and accessory industries, is to offer retail customers the right to return defective or improperly shipped merchandise. As it relates to new product introductions, which can often require large initial launch shipments, we commence production before receiving orders for those products from time to time. This can affect our inventory levels as we build pre-launch quantities.



Intellectual Property

We believe we own the material trademarks used in connection with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products, both domestically and internationally, where our products are currently sold or manufactured. Our major trademarks include the UA Logo and UNDER ARMOUR®, both of which are registered in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the European Union, Japan, China and numerous other countries. We also own trademark registrations for other trademarks including, among others, UA®, ARMOUR®, HEATGEAR®, COLDGEAR®, ALLSEASONGEAR®, PROTECT THIS HOUSE®, I WILL®, and many trademarks that incorporate the term ARMOUR such as ARMOUR39®, ARMOURBITE®, ARMOURLOFT®, ARMOURSTORM®, ARMOUR FLEECE®, and ARMOUR BRA®. We also own domain names for our primary trademarks (most notably underarmour.com and ua.com) and hold copyright registrations for several commercials, as well as for certain artwork. We intend to continue to strategically register, both domestically and internationally, trademarks and copyrights we utilize today and those we develop in the future. We will continue to aggressively police our trademarks and pursue those who infringe, both domestically and internationally.

We believe the distinctive trademarks we use in connection with our products are important in building our brand image and distinguishing our products from those of others. These trademarks are among our most valuable assets. In addition to our distinctive trademarks, we also place significant value on our trade dress, which is the overall image and appearance of our products, and we believe our trade dress helps to distinguish our products in the marketplace.

We traditionally have had limited patent protection on much of the technology, materials and processes used in the manufacture of our products. However, as we continue to drive innovation in our products, we expect to seek patent protection on products, features and concepts we believe to be strategic and important to our business. We will continue to file patent applications where we deem appropriate to protect our innovations and designs, and we expect the number of applications to increase as our business grows and as we continue to innovate.



Competition

The market for performance apparel, footwear and accessories is highly competitive and includes many new competitors as well as increased competition from established companies expanding their production and marketing of performance products. Many of the fabrics and technology used in manufacturing our products are not unique to us, and we own a limited number of fabric or process patents. Many of our competitors are large apparel and footwear companies with strong worldwide brand recognition and significantly greater resources than us, such as Nike and adidas. We also compete with other manufacturers, including those specializing in outdoor apparel, and private label offerings of certain retailers, including some of our retail customers.

In addition, we must compete with others for purchasing decisions, as well as limited floor space at retailers. We believe we have been successful in this area because of the relationships we have developed and as a result of the strong sales of our products. However, if retailers earn higher margins from our competitors’ products, they may favor the display and sale of those products.









We believe we have been able to compete successfully because of our brand image and recognition, the performance and quality of our products and our selective distribution policies. We also believe our focused gearline merchandising story differentiates us from our competition. In the future we expect to compete for consumer preferences and expect that we may face greater competition on pricing. This may favor larger competitors with lower production costs per unit that can spread the effect of price discounts across a larger array of products and across a larger customer base than ours. The purchasing decisions of consumers for our products often reflect highly subjective preferences that can be influenced by many factors, including advertising, media, product sponsorships, product improvements and changing styles.



Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately seventy-eight hundred employees, including approximately five thousand in our brand and factory house stores and nine hundred seventy at our distribution facilities. Approximately thirty three hundred of our employees were full-time. Most of our employees are located in the United States. None of our employees in the United States are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement and there are no material collective bargaining agreements in effect in any of our international locations. We have had no labor-related work stoppages, and we believe our relations with our employees are good.



Available Information

We will make available free of charge on or through our website at www.underarmour.com our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also post on this website our key corporate governance documents, including our board committee charters, our corporate governance guidelines and our code of conduct and ethics.













