ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Our principal business activities are the development, marketing and distribution of branded performance apparel, footwear and accessories for men, women and youth. The brand’s moisture-wicking
fabrications are engineered in many designs and styles for wear in nearly every climate to provide a performance alternative to traditional products. Our products are sold worldwide and are worn by athletes at all levels, from youth to professional,
on playing fields around the globe, as well as consumers with active lifestyles.

Our net revenues are generated primarily
from the wholesale distribution of our products to national, regional, independent and specialty retailers. We also generate net revenue from product licensing and from the sale of our products through our direct to consumer sales channel, which
includes sales through our factory house and specialty stores, website and catalogs. Our products are offered in over twenty three thousand retail stores worldwide. A large majority of our products are sold in North America; however we believe that
our products appeal to athletes and consumers with active lifestyles around the globe. Internationally, we sell our products in certain countries in Europe, a third party licensee sells our products in Japan, and distributors sell our products in
other foreign countries. We plan to continue to grow our business over the long term through increased sales of our apparel, footwear and accessories, expansion of our wholesale distribution, growth in our direct to consumer sales channel and
expansion in international markets. Virtually all of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated manufacturers operating in 22 countries outside of the United States.

We were incorporated as a Maryland corporation in 1996. As used in this report, the terms “we,”
“our,” “us,” “Under Armour” and the “Company” refer to Under Armour, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. We have registered trademarks around the globe, including UNDER ARMOUR®, HEATGEAR®, COLDGEAR®, ALLSEASONGEAR®and the Under Armour UA Logo, and we have applied to register many other trademarks. This Annual Report on Form 10-K
also contains additional trademarks and tradenames of our Company and other companies. All trademarks and tradenames appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective holders.

Products

Our product offerings consist of apparel, footwear and accessories for men, women and youth. We market our products at multiple price levels and provide consumers with what we believe to be a superior
alternative to traditional athletic products. In 2010, sales of apparel, footwear and accessories represented 80%, 12% and 4% of net revenues, respectively. Licensing arrangements for the sale of our products represented the remaining 4% of net
revenues. Refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for net revenues by product.

Apparel

Our apparel is offered in a variety of styles and fits intended to enhance comfort and mobility, regulate body
temperature and improve performance regardless of weather conditions. Our apparel is engineered to replace traditional non-performance fabrics in the world of athletics and fitness with performance alternatives designed and merchandised along
gearlines. Our three gearlines are marketed to tell a very simple story about our highly technical products and extend across the sporting goods, outdoor and active lifestyle markets. We market our apparel for consumers to choose HEATGEAR®when it is hot, COLDGEAR®when it is cold and
ALLSEASONGEAR®between the extremes. Within each gearline our apparel comes in three fit types: compression
(tight fit), fitted (athletic fit) and loose (relaxed).







HEATGEAR®is designed to be worn in warm to hot temperatures under equipment or as a single layer. Our first compression T-shirt was the original HEATGEAR®product and remains one of our signature styles. While a sweat-soaked traditional non-performance T-shirt can weigh
two to three pounds, HEATGEAR®is engineered with a microfiber blend designed to wick moisture from the body
which helps the body stay cool, dry and light. We offer HEATGEAR®in a variety of tops and bottoms in a broad
array of colors and styles for wear in the gym or outside in warm weather.

Because athletes sweat in cold
weather as well as in the heat, COLDGEAR®is designed to wick moisture from the body while circulating body heat
from hot spots to help maintain core body temperature. Our COLDGEAR®apparel provides both dryness and warmth in
a single light layer that can be worn beneath a jersey, uniform, protective gear or ski-vest and our COLDGEAR®outerwear products protect the athlete, as well as the coach and the fan from the outside in. Our COLDGEAR®product offerings generally sell at higher prices than our other gearlines.

ALLSEASONGEAR®is designed to be worn in changing temperatures and uses technical fabrics to keep the wearer cool and dry in warmer
temperatures while preventing a chill in cooler temperatures.

Footwear

We began offering footwear for men, women and youth in 2006, and each year we have expanded our footwear offerings. Our footwear offerings
include football, baseball, lacrosse, softball and soccer cleats, slides, performance training footwear, running footwear and basketball footwear. Our footwear is light, breathable and built with performance attributes for athletes. Our footwear is
designed with innovative technologies which provide stabilization, directional cushioning and moisture management engineered to maximize the athlete’s comfort and control. During 2010, we introduced basketball footwear, which had a limited
introduction in the United States and Canada.

Accessories

Our baseball batting, football, golf and running gloves include HEATGEAR®and COLDGEAR®technologies and are designed with advanced fabrications to provide the same level of performance as our other products. Net revenues generated from the sale of
baseball batting, football, golf and running gloves are included in our accessories category.

We also have agreements with
our licensees to develop Under Armour accessories. Our product, marketing and sales teams are actively involved in all steps of the design process in order to maintain brand standards and consistency. During 2010, our licensees offered bags, socks,
headwear, custom-molded mouth guards and eyewear designed to be used and worn before, during and after competition, and feature performance advantages and functionality similar to our other product offerings. License revenues generated from the sale
of these accessories are included in our net revenues. We have developed our own headwear and bags, and beginning in 2011, these products are being sold by us rather than by one of our licensees.

Marketing and Promotion

We currently focus on marketing and selling our products to consumers for use in athletics, fitness, training and outdoor activities. We maintain control over our brand image with an in-house marketing
and promotions department that designs and produces most of our advertising campaigns. We seek to drive consumer demand for our products by building brand equity and awareness as a leading performance athletic brand.

Sports Marketing

Our
marketing and promotion strategy begins with selling our products to high-performing athletes and teams on the high school, collegiate and professional levels. We execute this strategy through outfitting







Internationally, we are selling our products to European soccer and rugby teams.
We are the official supplier of performance apparel to the Hannover 96 football club and the Welsh Rugby Union, among others. In addition, we are an official supplier of performance apparel to Hockey Canada and have advertising rights throughout the
Air Canada Center during the Toronto Maple Leafs’ home games. We have also been designated as the Official Performance Product Sponsor of the Toronto Maple Leafs.

We also have sponsorship agreements with individual athletes. Our strategy is to find the next generation of stars, like Milwaukee Bucks point guard Brandon Jennings, U.S. professional skier and Olympic
gold medal winner Lindsey Vonn, professional lacrosse player Paul Rabil, Baltimore Orioles catcher Matthew Wieters, National League Rookie of the Year and World Series Champion Buster Posey, UFC Welterweight Champion Georges St-Pierre and the number
one pick in the 2010 Major League Baseball Draft, Bryce Harper of the Washington Nationals. In addition, our roster of athletes includes established stars such as professional football players Tom Brady, Brandon Jacobs, Miles Austin, Vernon Davis
and Anquan Boldin, triathlon champion Chris “Macca” McCormack, professional baseball players Ryan Zimmerman and Jose Reyes, U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team players Heather Mitts and Lauren Cheney, U.S. Olympic and professional
volleyball player Nicole Branagh, U.S. Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps, and professional golfer Hunter Mahan.

We seek to
sponsor events to drive awareness and brand authenticity from a grassroots level. For example, we entered into an agreement with IMG Academies for the development of a unique, comprehensive athletic training platform that we believe will establish a
global measurement standard for sports performance, health and fitness. In 2010, we hosted over 50 combines, camps and clinics for many sports at regional sites across the country for male and female athletes.

We reach young football athletes at all levels by sponsoring American Youth Football, a football organization that promotes the
development of youth; the Under Armour All-America Football Game, which is an annual competition between the top seniors in high school football; and the Under Armour Senior Bowl, which is an annual competition between the top seniors in college
football. In addition, we are the presenting sponsor for the 2010 NFL Scouting Combine.

We partner with Ripken Baseball to
outfit Ripken Baseball participants and to be the title sponsor for all 25 Ripken youth baseball tournaments, reaching 35,000 young athletes. In addition, we partner with the Baseball Factory to outfit the nation’s top high school baseball
athletes from head-to-toe and serve as the title sponsor for nationally recognized baseball tournaments and teams. In addition, beginning with the upcoming 2011 season, we are the Official Footwear Supplier of Major League Baseball.







We are the title sponsor of The Under Armour (Baltimore) Marathon and we have a strong brand
presence at several other major running events across the country. We are also the title sponsor of The Under Armour All-America Lacrosse Classic, as well as the All-America games in softball and volleyball for elite high school athletes. We believe
these relationships create significant on-field product and brand exposure that contributes to our on-field authenticity.

Media and
Promotion

We feature our products in a variety of national digital, broadcast, and print media
outlets. Our media campaigns run in a variety of lengths and formats and have included our signature “Protect this House” and “Click-Clack” campaigns featuring several NFL players. Our “Protect this House” campaign
continues to be used in several NFL and collegiate stadiums during games as a crowd prompt. Our ability to secure product placement in movies, television shows and video games has allowed us to reinforce our authenticity as well as establish our
brand with broader audiences who may not otherwise be exposed to our advertising and brand efforts. In 2010, we returned to a version of our signature campaign with “Protect this House.®I Will.” This campaign focused heavily on the training aspect of sports, which we believe is at the core of today’s athletes’ performance and
improvement.

Retail Marketing and Product Presentation

The primary component of our retail marketing strategy is to increase and brand floor space dedicated to our products within our major retail accounts. The design and funding of Under Armour concept shops
within our major retail accounts has been a key initiative for securing prime floor space, educating the consumer and creating an exciting environment for the consumer to experience our brand. Under Armour concept shops enhance our brand’s
presentation within our major retail accounts with a shop-in-shop approach, using dedicated floor space exclusively for our products, including flooring, lighting, walls, displays and images.

Across our many retailers, factory house and specialty stores we also use in-store fixtures and displays that highlight our logo and have
a performance-oriented, athletic look. We believe our in-store fixtures and displays, including our life-size athlete mannequins, are exciting and unique. These displays provide an easily identifiable place for consumers to look for our products and
are intended to reinforce the message that our brand is distinct from our competitors. We work with our retailers to establish optimal placement for our products and to have the brand represented in the many departments of our large national or
regional retail chains.

Customers

Our products are offered in over twenty three thousand retail stores worldwide, of which nearly sixteen thousand retail stores are in North America. We also sell our products directly to consumers through
our own factory house and specialty stores, website and catalogs.

Wholesale Distribution

In 2010, 73% of our net revenues were generated from wholesale distribution. Our principal customers located in the United States include
national and regional retail chains such as, in alphabetical order, Academy Sports and Outdoors, Dick’s Sporting Goods, Hibbett Sporting Goods, Modell’s Sporting Goods, and The Sports Authority; hunting and fishing, mountain sports and
outdoor retailers such as Bass Pro Shops and Cabela’s; and The Army and Air Force Exchange Service. Our principal customers located in Canada include national retail chains such as Sportchek International and Sportman International. In 2010,
our two largest customers were, in alphabetical order, Dick’s Sporting Goods and The Sports Authority. These two customers accounted for a total of 27% of our net revenues in 2010, and one of these customers individually accounted for at least
10% of our net revenues in 2010.







In 2010, approximately 75% of our wholesale distribution was derived from large format
national and regional retail chains. Additional wholesale distribution in 2010 was derived from independent and specialty retailers, institutional athletic departments, leagues and teams. The independent and specialty retailers are serviced by a
combination of in-house sales personnel and third-party commissioned manufacturer’s representatives and continue to represent an important part of our product distribution strategy and help build on the authenticity of our products. Our
independent sales include sales to military specialists, fitness specialists, outdoor retailers and other specialty channels. With the launch of our footwear, we expanded our distribution at the mall through national footwear retailers including
Finish Line and Foot Locker.

Direct to Consumer Sales

In 2010, 23% of our net revenues were generated through direct to consumer sales. Direct to consumer sales include discounted sales through our own factory house stores and sales through our specialty
stores, global website and catalog. As of December 31, 2010, we had 54 factory house stores, of which the majority are located at outlet centers on the East Coast of the United States. Through our specialty stores, consumers experience our
brand first-hand and have broader access to our performance products. These specialty stores are located near Annapolis, Maryland, Chicago, Illinois, Boston, Massachusetts, and Washington, D.C.

Product Licensing

In addition to generating net revenues through wholesale distribution and direct to consumer sales, we generate net revenues from licensing arrangements to manufacture and distribute Under Armour branded
products. In order to maintain consistent quality and performance, we pre-approve all products manufactured and sold by our licensees, and our quality assurance team strives to ensure that the products meet the same quality and compliance standards
as the products that we sell directly. We have relationships with several licensees for socks, team uniforms, eyewear and custom-molded mouth guards, as well as the distribution of our products to college bookstores and golf pro shops. In addition,
we have a relationship with a Japanese licensee that has the exclusive rights to distribute our products in Japan. In 2010, license revenues accounted for 4% of our net revenues. We have developed our own headwear and bags, and beginning in 2011,
these products are being sold by us rather than by one of our licensees.

Net Revenues in Other Foreign Countries

Our net revenues in other foreign countries include net revenues generated in Western Europe, primarily in Austria,
France, Germany, Ireland and the United Kingdom. In addition, net revenues in other foreign countries include net revenues generated through third-party distributors primarily in Australia, Italy, Greece, New Zealand, Panama, Scandinavia and Spain,
along with license revenues from our licensee in Japan. We believe that the trend toward performance products is global, and we will continue to introduce our products and simple merchandising story to athletes throughout the world. In international
markets, we are introducing our performance apparel, footwear and accessories in a manner consistent with our past brand-building strategy, including selling our products directly to teams and individual athletes in these markets, thereby providing
us with product exposure to broad audiences of potential consumers.

Since 2002, we have had a license agreement with Dome
Corporation, which produces, markets and sells our branded products in Japan. We work closely with this licensee to develop variations of our products for the different sizes, sports interests and preferences of the Japanese consumer. Our branded
products are now sold in Japan to professional sports teams, including Omiya Ardija, a professional soccer club in Saitama, Japan, as well as baseball and other soccer teams, and to over two thousand independent specialty stores and large sporting
goods retailers, such as Alpen, Himaraya, The Sports Authority and Xebio. We made a minority equity investment in Dome Corporation effective January 2011.

In 2006, we opened our European headquarters in Amsterdam, The Netherlands from which our European sales, marketing and logistics functions are conducted. We sell our branded products to Premier League
Football







clubs and multiple running, golf and cricket clubs in the United Kingdom, soccer teams in France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Sweden, as well as First Division Rugby clubs in
France, Ireland, Italy and the United Kingdom. Refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for consolidated net revenues for each of the last three years attributed to the United States and to other foreign countries.

We operate in the following geographic segments: North America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) and Asia. Refer to
Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information on these segments.

Seasonality

Historically, we have recognized a significant portion of our income from operations in the last two
quarters of the year, driven primarily by increased sales volume of our products during the fall selling season, reflecting our historical strength in fall sports, and the seasonality of our higher priced COLDGEAR®line. Historically, a larger portion of our income from operations has been in the last two quarters of the year
partially due to the shift in the timing of marketing investments to the first two quarters of the year. The majority of our net revenues were generated during the last two quarters in each of 2010, 2009 and 2008. The level of our working capital
generally reflects the seasonality and growth in our business. We generally expect inventory, accounts payable and certain accrued expenses to be higher in the second and third quarters in preparation for the fall selling season.

Product Design and Development

Our products are manufactured with technical fabrications produced by third parties and developed in collaboration with our product development team. This approach enables us to select and create
superior, technically advanced fabrics, produced to our specifications, while focusing our product development efforts on design, fit, climate and product end use.

We seek to regularly upgrade and improve our products with the latest in innovative technology while broadening our product offerings. Our goal, to deliver superior performance in all our products,
provides our developers and licensees with a clear, overarching direction for the brand and helps them identify new opportunities to create performance products that meet the changing needs of athletes. We design products with “visible
technology,” utilizing color, texture and fabrication to enhance our customers’ perception and understanding of product use and benefits.

Our product development team has significant prior industry experience at leading fabric and other raw material suppliers and branded athletic apparel and footwear companies throughout the world. This
team works closely with our sports marketing and sales teams as well as professional and collegiate athletes to identify product trends and determine market needs. For example, these teams worked closely to identify the opportunity and market for
our Catalyst products, which are the cornerstone of the Under Armour Green Collection. The fabrics of the Catalyst products are made from recycled plastic bottles and, like many of our products, are designed to keep an athlete cool and dry and
protected from the sun’s harmful rays.

Sourcing, Manufacturing and Quality Assurance

Many of the specialty fabrics and other raw materials used in our products are technically advanced products developed by third parties
and may be available, in the short term, from a limited number of sources. The fabric and other raw materials used to manufacture our products are sourced by our manufacturers from a limited number of suppliers pre-approved by us. In 2010,
approximately 70% to 75% of the fabric used in our products came from eight suppliers. These fabric suppliers have locations in El Salvador, Mexico, Peru, Taiwan and the United States. We continue to seek new suppliers and believe, although there
can be no assurance, that this concentration will decrease over time. The fabrics used by our suppliers and manufacturers are primarily synthetic fabrics and involve raw materials, including petroleum based products, that may be subject to price







fluctuations and shortages. Beginning in 2011 we are offering CHARGED COTTON™ products using primarily cotton fabrics that also may be subject to price fluctuations and shortages.

We also manufacture a limited number of apparel products on-premises in our quick turn, Special Make-Up Shop located at one of our
distribution facilities in Maryland. Through this 17,000 square-foot shop, we are able to build and ship apparel products on tight deadlines for high-profile athletes, leagues and teams. While the apparel products manufactured in the quick turn,
Special Make-Up Shop represent an immaterial portion of our total net revenues, we believe the facility helps us to provide superior service to select customers.

Distribution and Inventory Management

We
package and distribute the majority of our products through two distribution facilities located approximately 15 miles from our Baltimore, Maryland headquarters. One facility is a high-bay facility built in 2000, in which we currently lease and
occupy approximately 359,000 square feet. The lease term expires in September 2011, with two options to extend the lease term for up to four years in total. The other facility is a high-bay facility built in 2003, in which we lease and occupy
approximately 308,000 square feet. The lease term expires in April 2013, with one option to extend the lease term for an additional five years. In addition, we distribute our products in North America through a third-party logistics provider with
primary locations in California and in Florida. The agreement with this provider continues until December 2012. In 2010, we began to distribute some of our international products through a third-party logistics provider in Hong Kong. We also
distribute our products in Europe through a third-party logistics provider based out of Venlo, The Netherlands. This agreement continues until April 2013. We believe our distribution facilities and space available at our third-party logistics
providers will be adequate to meet our short term needs. We expect to expand to additional facilities in the future.

Inventory management is important to the financial condition and operating results of our business. We manage our inventory levels based
on any existing orders, anticipated sales and the rapid-delivery requirements of our customers. Our inventory strategy is focused on continuing to meet consumer demand while improving our inventory efficiency over the long term by putting systems
and procedures in place to improve our inventory management. We expect to achieve this by being in stock in core product offerings, which includes products that we plan to have available for sale over the next twelve months and beyond at full price.
In addition, we expect to achieve our inventory strategy by ordering our seasonal products based on current bookings, shipping seasonal product at the start of the shipping window in order to maximize the productivity of floor space at our retailers
and earmarking any seasonal excess for sales through our factory house stores and liquidation sales to third parties.







Our practice, and the general practice in the apparel and footwear industries, is to offer
retail customers the right to return defective or improperly shipped merchandise. Because of long lead-times for design and production of our products, from time to time we commence production of new products before receiving orders for those
products. This affects our inventory levels for new products.

Intellectual Property

We believe we own the internally developed material trademarks used in connection with the marketing, distribution and
sale of all our products, both domestically and internationally, where our products are currently sold or manufactured. Our major trademarks include the UA Logo and UNDER ARMOUR®, both of which are registered in the United States, Canada, the European Union, Japan and several other foreign countries in which we sell or plan to sell our
products. We also own trademark registrations for UA®, ARMOUR®, HEATGEAR®, COLDGEAR®, ALLSEASONGEAR®, PROTECT THIS HOUSE®, THE
ADVANTAGE IS UNDENIABLE®, DUPLICITY®, MPZ®, BOXERJOCK®, RECHARGE®, ARMOURBITE®, ATHLETES RUN®, and for other of our trademarks. In addition, we have applied to register numerous other trademarks including:
CHARGED COTTON™, GAMEDAY ARMOUR™, and MICRO G™. We also own internally developed domain names for our primary trademarks and hold copyright registrations for several commercials, as well as for certain artwork. We intend to continue
to strategically register, both domestically and internationally, trademarks and copyrights we utilize today and those we develop in the future. We will continue to aggressively police our trademarks and pursue those who infringe, both domestically
and internationally.

We believe the distinctive trademarks we use in connection with our products are important in building
our brand image and distinguishing our products from those of others. These trademarks are among our most valuable assets. In addition to our distinctive trademarks, we also place significant value on our trade dress, which is the overall image and
appearance of our products, and we believe our trade dress helps to distinguish our products in the marketplace.

The
intellectual property rights in much of the technology, materials and processes used to manufacture our products are often owned or controlled by our suppliers. However, we seek to protect certain innovative products and features that we believe to
be new, strategic and important to our business. In 2010, we filed several patent applications in connection with certain of our products and designs that we believe offer a unique utility or function. We will continue to file patent applications
where we deem appropriate to protect our inventions and designs, and we expect the number of applications to grow as our business grows and as we continue to innovate in a range of product categories.

Competition

The market for performance athletic apparel and footwear is highly competitive and includes many new competitors as well as increased competition from established companies expanding their production and
marketing of performance products. The fabrics and technology used in manufacturing our products are generally not unique to us, and we do not currently own any fabric or process patents. Many of our competitors are large apparel, footwear and
sporting goods companies with strong worldwide brand recognition and significantly greater resources than us, such as Nike and adidas. We also compete with other manufacturers, including those specializing in outdoor apparel, and private label
offerings of certain retailers, including some of our customers.

In addition, we must compete with others for purchasing
decisions, as well as limited floor space at retailers. We believe we have been successful in this area because of the relationships we have developed and as a result of the strong sales of our products. However, if retailers earn greater margins
from our competitors’ products, they may favor the display and sale of those products.

We believe we have been able to
compete successfully because of our brand image and recognition, the performance and quality of our products and our selective distribution policies. We also believe our focused







gearline merchandising story differentiates us from our competition. In the future we expect to compete for consumer preferences and expect that we may face greater competition on pricing. This
may favor larger competitors with lower costs per unit of product produced that can spread the effect of price discounts across a larger array of products and across a larger customer base than ours. The purchasing decisions of consumers for our
products often reflect highly subjective preferences that can be influenced by many factors, including advertising, media, product sponsorships, product improvements and changing styles.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had
approximately thirty nine hundred employees, including approximately twenty two hundred in our factory house and specialty stores and six hundred at our distribution facilities. Approximately two thousand of our employees were full-time. Most of our
employees are located in the United States and none of our employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have had no labor-related work stoppages, and we believe our relations with our employees are good.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We will make available free of charge on or through our website at www.underarmour.com our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also post on this website our key corporate
governance documents, including our board committee charters, our corporate governance guidelines and our ethics policy.







