Item 1.Business

We are a leading provider of integrated payroll, human resource, insurance, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. As ofMay 31, 2014, we serviced approximately580,000payroll clients. We maintain our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and have more than 100 offices.

Our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in 1979. We report our results of operations and financial condition as one business segment. Our fiscal year ends May 31st.

Company Strategy

We are focused on achieving strong, long-term financial performance by:

•providing high-quality, timely, accurate, and affordable comprehensive integrated payroll and human resource services;

•delivering these services utilizing a well-trained and responsive work force through a network of local and corporate offices servicing more than 100 of the largest markets in the U.S., as well as in Germany and Brazil;

•growing our client base, primarily through the efforts of our direct sales force, along with other marketing channels such as accountants, banks, national associations and franchise organizations, and search engine marketing;

•continually improving client service, through leveraging our leading-edge technology, to maximize client retention;

•capitalizing on the growth opportunities within our existing client base and from new clients by increasing utilization of our payroll and human resource services and products;

•investing in our business through expansion of our service and product offerings to continually add value for our clients; and

•supplementing our growth through strategic acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise.

Services and Products

We offer a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that allow our clients to meet their diverse payroll and human resource needs. These include:

•payroll processing;

•payroll tax administration services;

•employee payment services;

•regulatory compliance services (new-hire reporting and garnishment processing);

•Paychex HR Services;

•retirement services administration;

•insurance services;

•online HR administration services, including time and attendance and benefit enrollment; and

•other human resource services and products.

In the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014 ("fiscal 2014"), we also introduced additional value-added services that aid clients with certain accounting and finance needs.



By offering additional services that leverage the information gathered in the base payroll processing service, we are able to provide comprehensive outsourcing services that allow employers to expand their employee benefits offerings at an affordable cost. We mainly earn our revenue through recurring fees for services performed. Service revenue is primarily driven by the number of clients, checks or transactions per client per pay period, and utilization of ancillary services.












At Paychex, innovative technology meets superior customer service.  The integration of service and technology allows us to meet our clients' diverse needs by providing them information and products when, where, and how they want it.  Our software-as-a-service ("SaaS") solutions, operating in the cloud, allow us to offer such versatility.  Our Paychex Mobile Applications add greater value and convenience for our clients and their employees by allowing them instant access and increased productivity.  Our mobile apps are available for iPad®and AndroidTMtablets and smartphones, and allow our clients and their employees to have full access to our products, offering diverse capabilities for both the employer and employee. We offer an industry-leading, web-based report center and robust report writer.  This provides a one-stop shop for standard or on-demand reporting needs, ad-hoc and customized reporting, data-extract templates, and more.



We are integrating our leading-edge technology and mobility platform with our world class customer service through the Paychex Next Generation suite of innovative products.  This technology creates an integrated workforce management tool for our clients by bringing together the services those clients need, including our payroll products and various human resource and employee benefit management services.

Payroll

Payroll processing is a key aspect of our service portfolio. Our payroll service includes the calculation, preparation, and delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal accounting records and management reports; preparation of federal, state, and local payroll tax returns; and collection and remittance of clients’ payroll obligations. Our payroll services support the small business market through our core payroll and SurePayroll, Inc. ("SurePayroll") products.  Our core payroll clients can opt for our full-service customer service model through our branch operations or use Paychex Online, our secure Internet portal, which offers a suite of self-service, interactive services twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. These services include Paychex Online Payroll®, Internet Time Sheet, Paychex Online Reports, and General Ledger Reporting Service. Using these services, clients can communicate payroll information, access current and historical payroll information, and transfer payroll information calculated by us to their general ledger accounting software, eliminating manual entries and improving the accuracy of bookkeeping.  In addition, our SurePayroll SaaS solution offers "do-it-yourself," self-service and mobile applications for small business.

Mid-market companies typically have more sophisticated payroll and benefits needs, and are primarily serviced through our Major Market Services ("MMS") payroll product.  We offer a SaaS solution, through a single, web-based portal, to meet the payroll and human resource administrative needs of our MMS clients. This allows our mid-market payroll product to be integrated with various Internet-based services offered to assist clients with their administrative human resource and payroll needs through every step of the employee life cycle. Ancillary services particularly beneficial to our MMS clients include the following:

•Paychex HR Online, our Internet-based human resource management system, offers powerful tools for managing employee benefits, personnel information, and critical human resource compliance and reporting needs. In addition, its self-service features allow for better communication between management and employees.

•BeneTrac, our employee benefits management and administration system, provides our clients a simple, accurate, and cost-effective solution for streamlined benefits management.

•Paychex Time and Labor Online makes the time and attendance process more efficient. This solution can reduce time spent on preparing timesheets, minimize redundant data entry, increase awareness of critical labor information, and aid in compliance with federal time recording requirements.

•Paychex Expense Manager is an integrated expense management solution that allows clients to control discretionary spending while giving employees an easy-to-use, secure tool to prepare and submit expense reports online.

•Applicant tracking provides our clients with a tool to manage their recruiting process in order to better hire and retain talented employees.

MMS clients also have the option to select from a number of á la carte payroll and human resource ancillary services.  Both core and MMS clients can opt for our comprehensive human resource and payroll outsourcing solution, Paychex HR Services. This flexibility allows our clients to define the solution that best meets their particular needs.










Payroll tax administration services:Our payroll tax administration services (including Taxpay®) provide accurate preparation and timely filing of quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic transfer of funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies (federal, state, and local). In connection with these services, we electronically collect payroll taxes from clients’ bank accounts, typically on payday, prepare and file the applicable tax returns, and remit taxes to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies on the respective due dates. These taxes are typically paid between one and 30 days after receipt of collections from clients, with some items extending to 90 days. We handle regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest disputes, and we are subject to cash penalties imposed by tax or regulatory agencies for late filings and late or under payment of taxes.

Employee payment services:Our employee payment services provide an employer with the option of paying their employees by direct deposit, payroll debit card, a check drawn on a Paychex account (Readychex®), or a check drawn on the employer’s account and electronically signed by us. For the first three methods, we electronically collect net payroll from the clients’ bank accounts, typically one business day before payday, and provide payment to the employees on payday. Our Readychex service provides a cost-effective solution that offers the benefit of convenient, one-step payroll account reconciliation for employers.

Regulatory compliance services:We offer new-hire reporting services, which enable clients to comply with federal and state requirements to report information on newly hired employees. This information aids the government in enforcing child support orders and minimizes fraudulent unemployment and workers’ compensation insurance claims. Our garnishment processing service provides deductions from employees’ pay, forwards payments to third-party agencies, including those that require electronic payments, and tracks the obligations to fulfillment. These services enable employers to comply with legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties.

Human Resource Services

Paychex HR Services:

May 31, 2014

, Paychex HR Services was utilized by

28,000

clients with approximately

766,000

client employees.

Retirement services administration:Our retirement services product line offers a variety of options to clients, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE plans, SIMPLE IRAs, 401(k) plans with safe harbor provisions, owner-only 401(k) plans, profit sharing plans, and money purchase plans. These services provide plan implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations, employee and employer reporting, participant and employer online access, electronic funds transfer, and other administrative services. Auto enrollment is an optional plan feature that allows employers to automatically enroll employees in their company’s 401(k) plan and increase overall plan participation. Clients have the ability to choose from a group of pre-defined fund selections or to customize their investment options within their plan. We are one of the largest 401(k) recordkeepers for small businesses in the U.S. Forfiscal 2014and the fiscal year endedMay 31, 2013("fiscal 2013"), we earned an average fee of approximately twenty to twenty-five basis points from external fund managers based on the total asset value of participants' funds. Our retirement services clients include financial advisors.  As ofMay 31, 2014, retirement services covered approximately65,000plans and the asset value of participants' funds externally managed totaled approximately$21.9 billion.










Insurance services:Our licensed insurance agency, Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc. (“PIA”), provides insurance through a variety of carriers. Insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage such as workers’ compensation, business-owner policies, commercial auto, and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental, vision, and life. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client’s needs. With access to numerous top national and regional insurance carriers, our professional insurance agents enjoy a wide selection of plans from which they can best match the insurance needs of small businesses. Additionally, clients have the option to integrate their insurance plans with Paychex payroll processing for easy, accurate plan administration.

PIA also offers new comprehensive solutions to help employers and employees with certain mandates under U.S. health care reform legislation.  This includes Paychex Employer Shared Responsibility Service designed to  make it easier for business owners to determine if the Employer Shared Responsibility ("ESR") provision applies to them, and what actions they may need to take.  We also offer our new ESR Complete Analysis and Monitoring Service for those clients that want a more robust solution.  The Paychex Benefit Account product allows employers to offer Flexible Savings Accounts, Health Savings Accounts, and Health Reimbursement Accounts on a single platform with one debit card for their flexibility.

PIA has a website,www.paychexinsurance.com, with information and interactive tools to help educate visitors on insurance and aid in making business insurance decisions.   A section on this website is designed to provide answers, information, and solutions that employers need to prepare for and take action on health care reform.

Online HR administration services:We offer online human resource administration software products for employee benefits management and administration and time and attendance solutions. Paychex HR Online offers powerful tools for managing employee benefits, personnel information, and human resource compliance and reporting.  Our time and attendance products, including our Time and Labor Online, help minimize the time spent compiling time sheet information. They allow the employer to handle multiple payroll scenarios and result in improved productivity, accuracy, and reliability in the payroll process.  Our expense reporting solution is a web-based solution that provides clients with tools to manage and control the expense reporting process.  The applicant tracking suite provides technology that streamlines, simplifies, and drives the applicant workflow and hiring process for companies of all sizes.

Other human resource services and products:We offer the outsourcing of plan administration under section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code, allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for certain health insurance benefits and health and dependent care expenses not covered by insurance. All required implementation, administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement, and coverage tests are provided with these services. We offer state unemployment insurance services, which provide clients with prompt processing for all claims, appeals, determinations, change statements, and requests for separation documents. Other Human Resource Services products include employee handbooks, management manuals, and personnel and required regulatory forms. These products are designed to simplify clients’ office processes and enhance their employee benefits programs.

Accounting and Finance Services

We offer various accounting and finance services to small- to medium-sized businesses.   Paychex Accounting Online is a cloud-based accounting service delivered through a partnership and investment in Kashoo, a leading provider of cloud accounting services.  Paychex Payment Processing Services provides various options for small businesses to accept payments from customers, including credit and debit card processing, ACH and eCard processing, mobile and online payments, and point-of-sale processing.  We also offer payment distribution services to help clients lower their operating costs while increasing their payroll accuracy.  Through a partnership with Biz2Credit, a leading online credit resource for small businesses, we offer the Paychex Small Business Loan Resource Center, giving business owners access to over 1,200 lenders offering a variety of loan options to meet their financing needs.  The accounting and finance services are in their infancy, but offer additional value-added services that small-business owners need.

Sales and Marketing

We market our services primarily through our direct sales force based in the metropolitan markets we serve, with sales representatives specializing within our portfolio of services. Our sales representatives are also supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade shows, and telemarketing programs.  We utilize a virtual sales force to service geographical areas where we may not have a local presence.  We sell ancillary services and products to both new clients and our existing client base.










As part of certain sales force initiatives in fiscal 2013, we added new territories and focused on market segmentation in payroll and retirement services.  Within payroll, we differentiate the markets we serve between the small business market and mid-market companies. Within retirement services, we expanded our sales efforts by creating a dedicated, wholesale sales force focused solely on enhancing our relationships with financial advisors.

In addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we utilize relationships with existing clients, certified public accountants (“CPAs”), and banks for new client referrals.  Approximately 50% of our new core payroll clients (excluding business acquisitions) come from these referral sources.

For over ten years, we have had a partnership with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) as the preferred payroll provider for its AICPA Business SolutionsTMProgram.  More than half of the CPA firms in the U.S. are enrolled and actively participating in the Paychex Partner Program from AICPA Business Solutions.   Our current partnership agreement with the AICPA is in place through September 2016.  We also enhanced our relationships with CPAs by partnering with various state CPA society organizations.  In addition, we have a dedicated business development group to drive sales in the banking and franchise channels.

Our website, which is available atwww.paychex.com, includes online payroll sales presentations and service and product information and is a cost-efficient tool that serves as a source of leads and new sales, while complementing the efforts of our direct sales force. This online tool allows us to market to clients and prospective clients in other geographical areas where we do not have a direct sales presence. In addition, our insurance services website, which is available atwww.paychexinsurance.com,  provides information to help small businesses navigate the insurance industry, and generates leads by allowing interested parties to get in contact with one of our professional insurance agents.

In addition, Advantage Payroll Services Inc. (“Advantage”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Paychex, Inc., has license agreements with independently owned associate offices (“Associates”), which are responsible for selling and marketing Advantage payroll services and performing certain operational functions, while Paychex and Advantage provide all centralized back-office payroll processing and payroll tax administration services. The marketing and selling by the Associates is conducted under their own logos.

Paychex also builds on its reputation as an expert in the payroll and human resources industry by providing education and assistance to clients and other interested parties. We provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory changes. We track current regulatory issues that impact the small business community and provide a monthly regulatory update. Our newly redesigned Paychex Accountant Knowledge Center is a free online resource available through our website that brings valuable information and time-saving online tools to accounting professionals.  The BuildMyBiz website, which is available atwww.BuildMyBiz.com, provides tools and resources for starting, growing, and managing a business.

A section of both the Paychex website,www.paychex.com, and our insurance services website,www.paychexinsurance.com, is designated to the topic of health care reform to provide answers, information, and solutions that employers need to prepare for and take action relating to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (“PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together with the PPACA, the “Act”). Paychex is positioned to assist our clients and their employees as they navigate the complexity of this legislation.

Markets and Competition

We remain focused on servicing small- to medium-sized businesses based upon the growth potential that we believe exists in the markets we serve. Industry data indicates there are approximately12 millionbusinesses in the geographic markets that we currently serve within the U.S. Of those businesses, greater than 99% have fewer than 100 employees and are our primary customers and target market.

We serve a diverse base of small- to medium-sized clients operating in a broad range of industries located throughout the U.S. and in Germany. We also have a joint-venture arrangement to provide payroll and human resource services in Brazil.  We utilize service agreements and arrangements with clients that are generally terminable by the client at any time or upon relatively short notice. Forfiscal 2014, client retention reached record levels, rising to approximately82%of our beginning client base. No single client has a material impact on total service revenue or results of operations.










The composition of the U.S. market and the client base we serve by number of employees is as follows:

Business size(Number of employees)Estimatedmarket  distribution(1)Paychex, Inc. distributionof client base< 1091%65%10-194%17%20-493%12%50 +2%6%



(1)Based on current available market data from Dun & Bradstreet.

The market for payroll processing and human resource services is highly competitive and fragmented. We have one primary national competitor and we also compete with other national, regional, local, and online service providers, all of which we believe have significantly smaller client bases than us.

In addition to traditional payroll processing and human resource service providers, we compete with in-house payroll and human resource systems and departments. Payroll and human resource systems and software are sold by many vendors. Our Human Resource Services also compete with a variety of providers of human resource services, such as retirement services companies, insurance companies, and human resources and benefits consulting firms.

Competition in the payroll processing and human resource services industry is primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and reputation, including ease of use and accessibility of technology, breadth of service and product offerings, and price. We believe we are competitive in each of these areas.  We believe that our excellent customer service, together with our leading-edge technology, distinguishes us from our competitors.

Software Maintenance and Development

The ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local tax and regulatory agencies require us to regularly update the proprietary software we utilize to provide payroll and human resource services to our clients. We are continually engaged in developing enhancements to and the maintenance of our various software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our clients and the marketplace.

We continue to enhance our Paychex Next Generation platform, with its suite of innovative products, as we believe it is a key building block to our future success. We also continue to add more capabilities to our mobile applications.

Employees

As ofMay 31, 2014, we employed approximately12,700people.  None of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Intellectual Property

We own or license and use a number of trademarks, trade names, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, computer programs and software, and other intellectual property rights. Taken as a whole, our intellectual property rights are material to the conduct of our business. Where it is determined to be appropriate, we take measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements or policies with employees, vendors, and others; license agreements with licensees and licensors of intellectual property; and registration of certain trademarks. We believe that the “Paychex” name, trademark, and logo are of material importance to us.










Seasonality

There is no significant seasonality to our business. However, during our third fiscal quarter, which ends in February, the number of new payroll clients, new retirement services clients, and new Paychex HR Services worksite employees tends to be higher than during the rest of the fiscal year, primarily because many new clients prefer to start using our services at the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, calendar year-end transaction processing and client funds activity are traditionally higher during our third fiscal quarter due to clients paying year-end bonuses and requesting additional year-end services. Historically, as a result of these factors, our total revenue has been slightly higher in our third fiscal quarter, with greater sales commission expenses also reported in that quarter.

Other

We are subject to the informational and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements, and other information.

Information about our services and products, stockholder information, press releases, and filings with the SEC can be found on our website atwww.paychex.com. Our Form 10-Ks, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other SEC filings, as well as any amendments to such reports and filings, are made available, free of charge, on our website.  You can access them under the Corporate tab on the Investor Relations section of our website. They are made available as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act to the SEC. Also, copies of our Annual Report to Stockholders and Proxy Statement, to be issued in connection with our2014Annual Meeting of Stockholders, will be made available, free of charge, upon written request submitted to Paychex, Inc., c/o Corporate Secretary, 911 Panorama Trail South, Rochester, New York 14625-2396.





