Item 1.Business

We are a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. As of
May 31, 2012, we serviced approximately 567,000 clients, including approximately 2,000 clients through four offices in Germany. We maintain our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and have more than 100 offices nationwide.

Our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in 1979. We report our results of operations and financial condition as one
business segment. Our fiscal year ends May 31.

Company Strategy

We are focused on achieving strong, long-term financial performance by:



•providing high-quality, timely, accurate, and affordable comprehensive payroll and integrated human resource services;



•delivering these services utilizing a well-trained and responsive work force through a network of local and corporate offices servicing more than 100
of the largest markets in the U.S. and in Germany;



•growing our client base, primarily through the efforts of our direct sales force;



•continually improving client service to maximize client retention;



•capitalizing on the growth opportunities within our existing client base and from new clients by increasing utilization of our payroll and human
resource ancillary services and products;



•capitalizing on and leveraging our highly developed technology and operating infrastructure;



•investing in our business through expansion of our service and product offerings to continually add value for our clients; and



•supplementing our growth through strategic acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise.

Services and Products

We offer a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that allow our clients to meet their diverse payroll and human resource needs.
These include:



•payroll processing;



•payroll tax administration services;



•employee payment services;



•regulatory compliance services (new-hire reporting and garnishment processing);



•Paychex HR Solutions;



•retirement services administration;



•insurance services;



•eServices; and



•other human resource services and products.







By offering ancillary services that leverage the information gathered in the base payroll
processing service, we are able to provide comprehensive outsourcing services that allow employers to expand their employee benefits offerings at an affordable cost. We mainly earn our revenue through recurring fees for services performed. Service
revenue is primarily driven by the number of clients, checks or transactions per client per pay period, and utilization of ancillary services.

Payroll

Payroll processing is the foundation of our service portfolio. Our
payroll service includes the calculation, preparation, and delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal accounting records and management reports; preparation of federal, state, and local payroll tax returns; and collection and
remittance of clients’ payroll obligations. Our payroll services are provided through either our core payroll or Major Market Services (“MMS”) and are made available to clients via traditional or Internet-based methods.

Major Market Services:MMS primarily targets companies that have more
sophisticated payroll and benefits needs. We currently offer this service in all of our significant markets. Our proprietary MMS software, Preview®, provides a powerful payroll solution and allows smooth integration with other Paychex service offerings. Preview can be used as an on-site, PC-based system or via a
secure web-hosted environment.

We offer a software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) solution to meet the payroll and human
resource administrative needs of our MMS clients. This allows Preview to be integrated with various Internet-based services offered to assist clients with their administrative human resource and payroll needs through every step of the employee life
cycle. Ancillary services particularly beneficial to our MMS clients include the following:



•Paychex HR Online, our Internet-based human resource management system, offers powerful tools for managing employee benefits, personnel information,
and critical human resource compliance and reporting needs. In addition, its self-service features allow for better communication between management and employees.



•BeneTrac, our employee benefits management and administration system, provides our MMS clients a simple, accurate, and cost-effective solution for
streamlined benefits management.



•Paychex Time and Labor Online makes the time and attendance process more efficient. This solution can reduce time spent on preparing timesheets,
minimize redundant data entry, increase awareness of critical labor information, and aid in compliance with federal time recording requirements.



•Paychex Expense Manager is an integrated payroll and expense management solution that allows clients to control discretionary spending while giving
employees an easy-to-use, secure tool to prepare and submit expense reports online.



•Applicant tracking, offered through our partnership with Taleo Corporation, provides our MMS clients with a tool to manage their recruiting process in
order to better hire and retain talented employees.

Online payroll
services:Our core payroll clients can opt to use Paychex Online, our secure Internet site, which offers a suite of self-service, interactive services and products twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. These
include Paychex Online Payroll®, Internet Time Sheet, Paychex Online Reports, and General Ledger Reporting
Service. Using these services, clients can communicate payroll information, access current and historical payroll information, and transfer payroll information calculated by us to their general ledger accounting software, eliminating manual entries
and improving the accuracy of bookkeeping. In addition, we offer self-service and mobile applications for small business through our SurePayroll, Inc. (“SurePayroll”) SaaS product offering.

MMS clients can select Paychex One-Source Solutions, which seamlessly integrates Preview, Paychex Time and Labor Online, and Paychex HR
Online applications through a single, web-based client portal. MMS clients also have the option to select from a number of á la carte payroll and human resource ancillary services or opt for our comprehensive human resource and payroll
outsourcing solution, Paychex HR Solutions. This flexibility allows our clients to define the solution that best meets their particular needs.







During fiscal 2012, we introduced enhancements to our SaaS offerings
through a single sign-on and landing page and our Paychex Online Mobile applications. Our mobility apps are now available for
iPad®and Android™tablets and smartphones, and allow our clients and their employees to have full access to our products, offering diverse capabilities for both the employer and
employee.

Payroll tax administration services:As of May 31,
2012, nearly all of our clients utilized our payroll tax administration services (including Taxpay®), which
provide accurate preparation and timely filing of quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic transfer of funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies (federal, state, and local). In connection with these services, we
electronically collect payroll taxes from clients’ bank accounts, typically on payday, prepare and file the applicable tax returns, and remit taxes to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies on the respective due dates. These taxes are
typically paid between one and 30 days after receipt of collections from clients, with some items extending to 90 days. We handle regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest disputes, and we are subject to cash
penalties imposed by tax or regulatory agencies for late filings and late or under payment of taxes.

Employee payment services:As of May 31, 2012, 82% of our clients utilized
our employee payment services, which provide the employer the option of paying their employees by direct deposit, payroll debit card, a check drawn on a Paychex account (Readychex®), or a check drawn on the employer’s account and electronically signed by us. For the first three methods, we electronically collect net payroll from the
clients’ bank accounts, typically one business day before payday, and provide payment to the employees on payday. Our flexible payment options provide a cost-effective solution that offers the benefit of convenient, one-step payroll account
reconciliation for employers.

Regulatory compliance services:We offer new-hire reporting
services, which enable clients to comply with federal and state requirements to report information on newly hired employees. This information aids the government in enforcing child support orders and minimizes fraudulent unemployment and
workers’ compensation insurance claims. Our garnishment processing service provides deductions from employees’ pay, forwards payments to third-party agencies, including those that require electronic payments, and tracks the obligations to
fulfillment. These services enable employers to comply with legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties.

Human
Resource Services

Paychex HR Solutions:

Retirement services administration:Our retirement services product line offers a variety of options to clients, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE, SIMPLE IRA,
401(k) plans with safe harbor provisions, profit sharing plans, and money purchase plans. These services provide plan implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations, employee and employer reporting, participant and employer online
access, electronic funds transfer, and other administrative services. Auto enrollment is an optional plan feature allowing employers to automatically enroll employees in their company’s 401(k) plan and increase overall plan participation.
Clients







have the ability to choose from a group of pre-defined fund selections or to customize their investment options within their plan. Selling efforts for these services are focused primarily on our
existing payroll client base, as the processed payroll information allows for data integration necessary to provide these services efficiently. We are one of the largest 401(k) recordkeepers for small businesses in the U.S. For fiscal 2012 and
fiscal 2011, we earned an average fee between twenty and twenty-five basis points from the external fund managers based on the total asset value of client employee 401(k) funds. In May 2011, we acquired ePlan Services, Inc., a provider of
recordkeeping and administrative solutions to the defined contribution marketplace. This acquisition allows us to expand our retirement services to financial advisors. As of May 31, 2012, retirement services were utilized by approximately
59,000 clients and the asset value of client employee 401(k) funds externally managed totaled approximately $15.7 billion.

Insurance services:Our licensed insurance agency, Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc. (“PIA”),
provides insurance through a variety of carriers. Insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage such as workers’ compensation; business-owner policies; commercial auto; and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental,
vision, and life. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client’s needs. With access to numerous top national and regional carriers, our professional
insurance agents enjoy a wide selection of plans from which to best match the insurance needs of small businesses. Clients also have the option to integrate with Paychex payroll processing for easy, accurate plan administration. PIA has a website,www.paychexinsurance.com, with information and interactive tools to help educate visitors on insurance and aid in making business insurance decisions. As of May 31, 2012, approximately 107,000 clients have appointed PIA as their agent
for servicing their business insurance needs.

eServices:We offer online human resource
administration software products for employee benefits management and administration and time and attendance solutions. Paychex HR Online offers powerful tools for managing employee benefits, personnel information, and human resource compliance and
reporting. Time and Labor Online helps minimize the time spent compiling time sheet information. It allows the employer to handle multiple payroll scenarios and results in improved productivity, accuracy, and reliability in the payroll process.

Other human resource services and products:We offer the outsourcing of plan
administration under section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code, allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for certain health insurance benefits and health and dependent care expenses not covered by insurance. All required implementation,
administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement, and coverage tests are provided with these services. We offer state unemployment insurance services, which provide clients with prompt processing for all claims, appeals,
determinations, change statements, and requests for separation documents. Other Human Resource Services products include employee handbooks, management manuals, and personnel and required regulatory forms. These products are designed to simplify
clients’ office processes and enhance their employee benefits programs.

Sales and Marketing

We market our services primarily through our direct sales force based in the metropolitan markets we serve, with sales representatives
specializing within our portfolio of services. Our sales representatives are also supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade shows, and telemarketing programs. In recent years, we have increased our emphasis on the selling of
ancillary services and products to both new clients and our existing client base.

In addition to our direct selling and
marketing efforts, we utilize relationships with existing clients, certified public accountants (“CPAs”), and banks for new client referrals. Approximately 60% of our new core payroll clients (excluding business acquisitions) come from
these referral sources. To further enhance our strong relationship with CPAs, we have partnered with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) since 2003 and through September 2016 as the preferred payroll provider
for its AICPA Business Solutions Partner Program.

Our website atwww.paychex.com, which includes online payroll sales
presentations and service and product information, is a cost-efficient tool that serves as a source of leads and new sales while complementing the efforts of our direct sales force. This online tool allows us to market to clients in other areas. In
addition, our







insurance services website atwww.paychexinsurance.comprovides information to help small businesses navigate the insurance industry, and generates leads by allowing interested parties to
get in contact with one of our professional insurance agents.

In addition, Advantage Payroll Services Inc.
(“Advantage”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Paychex, Inc., has license agreements with independently owned associate offices (“Associates”), which are responsible for selling and marketing Advantage payroll services and
performing certain operational functions, while Paychex and Advantage provide all centralized back-office payroll processing and payroll tax administration services. The marketing and selling by the Associates is conducted under their own logos.

Paychex also builds on its reputation as an expert in the payroll and human resources industry by providing education and
assistance to clients and other interested parties. We provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory changes. We track current regulatory issues that
impact the small business community and provide a monthly regulatory update. In an effort to help entrepreneurs and small-business owners achieve success, in fiscal 2012 we launched a new website,BuildMyBiz.com, that provides tools and
resources for starting, growing, and managing a business.

Markets and Competition

We remain focused on servicing small- to medium-sized businesses based upon the growth potential that we believe exists in the markets we
serve. Industry data indicates there are approximately ten million employers in the geographic markets that we currently serve within the U.S. Of those employers, greater than 99% have fewer than 100 employees and are our primary
customers and target market.

We serve a diverse base of small- to medium-sized clients operating in a broad range of
industries located throughout the U.S. and in Germany. As of May 31, 2012, we serviced approximately 567,000 payroll clients. We utilize service agreements and arrangements with clients that are generally terminable by the client at any time or
upon relatively short notice. For fiscal 2012, client retention was approximately 80% of our beginning client base, up from 79% for fiscal 2011. No single client has a material impact on total service revenue or results of operations.

The composition of the U.S. market and the client base we serve by number of employees is as follows:



Business size(Number of employees)Estimatedmarket 
distribution(1)Paychex, Inc. distributionof client base1-483%42%5-1913%40%20-492%12%50-991%4%100+1%2%





(1)Based on currently available market data from Dun & Bradstreet.

The market for payroll processing and human resource services is highly competitive and fragmented. Our primary
national competitor, ADP®(“Automatic Data Processing, Inc.”), is the largest U.S. third-party
provider of payroll processing and human resource services in terms of revenue. We compete with other national, regional, local, and online service providers, all of which we believe have significantly smaller client bases than us.

In addition to traditional payroll processing and human resource service providers, we compete with in-house payroll and human resource
systems and departments. Payroll and human resource systems and software are sold by many vendors. Our Human Resource Services also compete with a variety of providers of human resource services, such as retirement services companies, insurance
companies, and human resources and benefits consulting firms.

Competition in the payroll processing and human resource
services industry is primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and reputation, breadth of service and product offering, and price. We believe we are competitive in each of these areas.







Software Maintenance and Development

The ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local tax and regulatory agencies require us to regularly update the proprietary
software we utilize to provide payroll and human resource services to our clients. We are continually engaged in developing enhancements to and the maintenance of our various software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our clients and
the marketplace.

In fiscal 2010, we completed implementation of an enhanced platform for our core payroll processing
capability, which allows us to leverage efficiencies in our processes and continue to provide excellent customer service. Our Paychex Next Generation platform, with its suite of innovative products, is expanding these enhancements to our additional
service offerings over the next few years.

Employees

As of May 31, 2012, we employed approximately 12,400 people. None of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Intellectual Property

We own or license and use a number of trademarks,
trade names, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, computer programs and software, and other intellectual property rights. Taken as a whole, our intellectual property rights are material to the conduct of our business. Where it is determined to
be appropriate, we take measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements or policies with employees, vendors, and others; license agreements with licensees and licensors
of intellectual property; and registration of certain trademarks. We believe that the “Paychex” name, trademark, and logo are of material importance to us.

Seasonality

There is no significant seasonality to our business. However,
during our third fiscal quarter, which ends in February, the number of new payroll clients, new retirement services clients, and new Paychex HR Solutions worksite employees tends to be higher than during the rest of the fiscal year, primarily
because a majority of new clients begin using our services at the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, calendar year-end transaction processing and client funds activity are traditionally higher during our third fiscal quarter due to clients
paying year-end bonuses and requesting additional year-end services. Historically, as a result of these factors, our total revenue has been slightly higher in our third fiscal quarter, with greater sales commission expenses also reported in the
third quarter.

Other

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements, and other
information with the SEC. Such reports may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
(800) SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements, and other information.

Information about our services and products, stockholder information, press releases, and filings with the SEC can be found on our website atwww.paychex.com. Our Form 10-Ks, Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other SEC filings, as well as any amendments to such reports and filings, are made available, free of charge, under the Corporate tab, in the Investor Relations section of our website as soon
as reasonably practical after such material is filed with, or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act to the SEC. Also, copies of our Annual Report to Stockholders and Proxy Statement, to be issued in connection with
our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, will be made available, free of charge, upon written request submitted to Paychex, Inc., c/o Corporate Secretary, 911 Panorama Trail South, Rochester, New York 14625-2396.







