10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

FORM 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

.

Commission File Number 1-475

A. O. Smith Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

(414) 359-4000

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).

¨

Yes

¨

No.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

¨

Non-accelerated filer

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act.)

¨

Yes

þ

No

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
$51,959,312 for Class A Common Stock and $755,254,005 for Common Stock as of June 30, 2009.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.

Portions of the company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under
Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the registrant’s fiscal year and, upon such filing, to be incorporated by reference in Part III).



A. O. Smith Corporation

Index to
Form 10-K

Year Ended December 31, 2009



PART 1

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

We are a leading manufacturer of
water heating equipment and electric motors, serving a diverse mix of residential, commercial and industrial end markets principally in the United States with a growing international presence. Our company is comprised of two reporting segments:
Water Products and Electrical Products. Our Water Products business manufactures and markets a comprehensive line of residential gas and electric water heaters, standard and specialty commercial water heating equipment, high-efficiency copper-tube
boilers, water treatment products and water systems tanks. Our Electrical Products business manufactures and markets a comprehensive line of hermetic motors, fractional horsepower alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC) motors. In 2009, we
had net sales of approximately $2.0 billion, with 69 percent attributable to our Water Products business and 31 percent attributable to our Electrical Products business.

The following table summarizes our sales by reporting segment. This segment summary and all other information presented in this section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in Item 8 in this document.

WATER PRODUCTS

In our Water Products business, sales decreased 5 percent or $76.3 million in 2009 compared with the prior year. A 19 percent increase in sales of water heaters in China helped offset significantly lower
residential and commercial volumes in North America.

We serve residential, commercial and industrial end markets with a broad range of
products, including:

Residential gas and electric water heaters

. Our residential water heaters come in sizes ranging from two-gallon
(point-of-use) models to 120-gallon appliances with varying efficiency ranges. We offer electric, natural gas and liquid propane models as well as solar booster tanks and gas tankless units for today’s energy efficient homes. North American
residential water heater sales in 2009 were approximately $857 million or 62 percent of segment revenues.

Commercial (standard and
specialty) water heaters.

Our gas, oil and electric water heaters come in capacities ranging from 6 gallons to 600 gallons and are used by customers who require a consistent, economical source of hot water. Typical applications include
restaurants, hotels and motels, laundries, car washes and small businesses.

A significant portion of our Water Products business is derived
from the replacement of existing product, and it is believed that the sale of product to the North American residential new housing construction market represents approximately 10 percent of the segment’s total residential water heater sales.
Our Water Products business also manufactures copper-tube boilers and expansion tanks and related products and parts.

We are the largest
manufacturer and marketer of water heaters in North America, and we have a leading share in both the residential and commercial segments of the market. In the commercial market segment, we believe our comprehensive product line, as well as our
high-efficiency products, give us a competitive advantage in this higher-margin segment of the water heating industry. As the leader in the residential water heating market segment, we offer an extensive line of high-efficiency gas and electric
models.

Our Water Products wholesale distribution channel includes more than 1,100 independent wholesale plumbing distributors with more than
4,400 selling locations serving residential, commercial and industrial markets. We also sell our residential water heaters through the retail channel. In this channel, our customers include five of the seven largest national hardware and home center
chains, including long-standing exclusive branding relationships with both Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and Sears, Roebuck and Co.



We entered the Chinese water heater market through a joint venture in 1995, buying out our partner three
years later. Since that time, we have been aggressively expanding our presence while building A. O. Smith brand recognition in the Chinese residential and commercial markets. In 2009, the Chinese Water Products operation generated sales of $221.1
million, an increase of 19 percent, compared with 2008. We believe we are one of the top two suppliers of water heaters to the residential market in China.

In 2008, we established a sales office in India and began importing products specifically designed for India from our Nanjing, China facility. In 2009, we finalized the acquisition of land near Bangalore
and started construction of a water heater manufacturing facility. We expect to begin manufacturing water heaters in India in the second quarter of 2010.

In November 2009, we purchased the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. of Hong Kong. We hold 80 percent of the newly formed A. O. Smith (Shanghai) Water Treatment Products Co. Ltd.
Through this company and eventually our current water heater distribution channels, we will supply reverse osmosis water purification products to the China residential and commercial markets, as well as export markets throughout the world.

Our energy efficient product offering continues to be a growing driver of our business. Our Cyclone product family now represents 20% of our
standard commercial product unit sales and it offers significant energy savings and a short payback to our customers. Globally, we have launched new water heating products using renewable solar and heat pump technologies. In 2010, we plan to
introduce residential solar and heat pump water heaters in the US as well as higher efficiency water heating solutions to round out our energy efficient product offering.

We sell our water heating products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted market segments based on product design, quality of products and services, performance and price. Our
principal domestic water heating competitors include Rheem Manufacturing Company, Bradford-White Corporation and Lochinvar Corporation. Our primary competitor in China is Haier Appliances, a Chinese company, but we also compete with Ariston, Siemens
and Midea in the electric water heater market and Rinnai and Noritz in the gas instantaneous water heater market. Additionally, we compete with numerous other Chinese private and state-owned water heater and boiler manufacturing companies.

ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS

In our Electrical Products business, revenue declined nearly 30 percent due to the global recession. Sales in the segment were $620 million compared with $858 million in 2008. Our Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) products were most
severely impacted by the recession due to lower equipment sales in our end markets, the trend to fix instead of replace equipment and channel inventory reductions of finished goods and components as our customers sought to preserve cash.

We are one of the four largest manufacturers of electric motors in North America. We offer a comprehensive line of hermetic motors, fractional horsepower
AC and DC motors, and integral horsepower motors, ranging in size from sub-fractional C – frame ventilation motors up to 1,320 horsepower hermetic and 400 horsepower integral motors. We believe our extensive product offerings give us an
advantage in our targeted markets, allowing us to serve a wide range of our customers’ electric motor needs.

Our motors are used in a
wide range of targeted residential and commercial applications, including: hermetic motors that are sold worldwide to manufacturers of air conditioning and commercial refrigeration compressors; fractional horsepower fan motors used in furnaces, air
conditioners and blowers; fractional horsepower motors for pumps for home water systems, swimming pools, hot tubs and spas; fractional horsepower motors used in other consumer products (such as garage door openers); and integral horsepower AC and DC
motors for industrial and commercial applications. Sales to the global OEMs of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment, including compressors, accounted for approximately 50 percent of segment sales. Approximately 75
percent of our 2009 segment sales were to OEMs in a diverse mix of industries, with the remainder of sales sold through aftermarket or distribution channels. We believe that at least 25 percent of our total segment sales were attributable to
products used outside of the United States. A significant portion of our Electrical Products business is derived from the replacement of existing product, and it is believed that the sale of product to the residential new housing construction market
in North America represents approximately 25 percent of the segment’s total sales.

To remain a leader in this highly competitive
industry, we are committed to being a low-cost supplier of electric motors. We have undertaken initiatives to accelerate cost-reduction in our motor operations to enhance our competitive position. Since 2001 these initiatives included the closure of
eleven U.S. facilities as well as our operations in Budapest, Hungary; Bray, Ireland; and Taizhou, China, transferring the majority of related production to our lower cost operations in Mexico and China.



In 2008, we closed our operations in Scottsville, KY, and Mebane, NC, consolidating our hermetic motor
assembly operations in Acuna, Mexico and Suzhou and Yueyang, China. In 2009, we constructed a new building in Yueyang for our large centrifugal and screw compressor motor production. This new building more than doubled our available manufacturing
space and consolidated all of our production in Yueyang under one roof. We also became more vertically integrated as part of this expansion, including the addition of rotor casting equipment and lamination punch presses. The investment for this
expansion totaled approximately $9 million.

In 2009, we also completed the installation of an ERP system in our operations. The system
represented a total investment of approximately $12 million, and is already yielding the expected benefits in increased productivity, throughput and customer responsiveness. We also completed our lean products initiative, eliminating thousands of
components from our product offering through product standardization.

Energy efficiency continues to be a significant driver for our
business, especially our new product development activities. We launched two new variable speed motor platforms in 2009 in our pool pump and residential HVAC businesses. We plan to launch several more variable speed high efficiency motor equivalents
for most of our core product offerings. We have significantly upgraded our technical capabilities to accomplish this product development.

We
sell our electric motor products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted market segments based on product design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, performance and price. Our principal
competitors in the electric motor industry are Emerson Electric Co., Regal Beloit Corporation and Baldor Electric Company.

RAW MATERIAL

Raw materials for our manufacturing operations, which consist primarily of steel, copper and aluminum, are generally available from
several sources in adequate quantities. We typically hedge a portion of our annual copper and aluminum purchases to protect against price volatility. In addition, a portion of our customers are contractually obligated to accept price changes based
on fluctuations in certain of our raw material prices. Significant volatility in steel, copper and aluminum costs has occurred over the last several years.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

In order to improve competitiveness by generating new products
and processes, we conduct research and development at our Corporate Technology Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and at our operating units. Total expenditures for research and development in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $52.6, $48.5 and $47.8 million,
respectively.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own and use in our businesses various trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and licenses. While a number of these are important to us, we do not believe that our business as a whole is
materially dependent upon any such trademark, trade name, patent, trade secret or license.

EMPLOYEES

Our company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 16,000 employees as of December 31, 2009.

BACKLOG

Due to the short-cycle nature of
our businesses, none of our operations sustain significant backlogs.

ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

Our operations are governed by a variety of federal, state and local laws intended to protect the environment. While environmental considerations are a part
of all significant capital expenditures, compliance with the environmental laws has not had and is not expected to have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of our company. See Item 3.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We maintain a website with the address www.aosmith.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other
than an investor’s own internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as
reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The company is committed to sound corporate governance and has documented its corporate governance practices by adopting the A. O. Smith Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, Criteria for Selection of
Directors, Financial Code of Ethics, the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles, as well as the charters for the Audit, Personnel and Compensation, Nominating and Governance and the Investment Policy Committees and other corporate governance
materials may be viewed on the company’s website. Any waiver of or amendments to the Financial Code of Conduct or the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles also would be posted on this website; to date there have been none. Copies of these documents
will be sent to stockholders free of charge upon written request of the corporate secretary at the address shown on the cover page of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS

You should carefully
consider the risk factors set forth below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the documents incorporated by reference, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the
events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose
all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only risks facing our company.

•

The effects of the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business

The U.S. economy is improving and other geographic areas in which we operate are showing signs of improvement as well. The global credit and capital markets
are still showing signs of stress, however, and threaten to stall or reverse the course of the recovery. If this were to occur it could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending patterns which could result in decreased demand for the
products we sell, a delay in purchases, increased price competition, and slower adoption of energy efficient products which could negatively impact our profitability and/or cash flow. In addition, the current economic conditions, including the
credit market conditions, could negatively impact our vendors and customers, which could result in an increase in bad debt expense, customer and vendor bankruptcies, interruption or delay in supply of materials, and increased material prices, which
could negatively impact our ability to distribute, market and sell our products and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•

A portion of our business could continue to be adversely affected by a decline in new residential or commercial construction

A portion of our products are sold into the new residential and commercial construction markets. The strength of these
markets depends on new housing starts and business investment, which are a function of many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, employment levels, availability of credit and consumer confidence. Further downturns in the new
construction markets we serve could result in lower revenues and lower profitability. New housing starts declined in 2008 and 2009 and may continue at the lower levels or decline further. We believe that approximately 10 percent of our Water
Products and 25 percent of our Electrical Products residential businesses, respectively, are affected by changes in the residential housing construction markets. Commercial construction activity, which has been high in recent years, could continue
the decline that began in the second half of 2008 and declined further in 2009. Furthermore, though we believe that the majority of the commercial business we serve is for replacement, we could also be affected by changes in the commercial
construction market.



•

A portion of our business could be affected by a slowing Chinese economy

We have experienced above average growth in sales in China for both our Water Products and Electrical Products segments. If the Chinese economy were to
experience a significant slowdown it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•

A material loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our business

Net sales to our operating units’ four largest customers represented approximately 29 percent of 2009 net sales. We
expect that customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future in light of the global economic downturn. Our dependence on sales from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important
to our business. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our largest customers. Some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products to our competitors or to other sources. The loss of one or more of our largest
customers, any material reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or our inability to execute on pricing actions could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

•

Because we participate in markets that are highly competitive, our revenues could decline as we respond to competition

We sell all of our products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted markets based on product
design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, product performance, maintenance costs and price. We compete against manufacturers located in the United States and throughout the world. We also face potential
competition from some OEMs to whom we sell our electrical products and from our customers and the end users of our products, who continually assess any costs that could be reduced by vertically integrating or using alternate sources for the products
we manufacture. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and distribution resources than we have. We cannot assure that our products and services will continue to compete successfully with those of our
competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•

We increasingly manufacture and sell our products outside the United States, which may present additional risks to our business

A significant portion of our 2009 net sales were attributable to products manufactured outside of the United States,
principally in Mexico and China. Approximately 4,880 of our 16,000 total employees and 14 of our 36 manufacturing facilities are located in Mexico. Approximately 6,386 employees and six manufacturing facilities are located in China. International
operations generally are subject to various risks, including political, religious, and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade restrictions, the impact of foreign government regulations,
and the effects of income and withholding tax, governmental expropriation, and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international
manufacturing and sales that could cause loss of revenue. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory, and business climate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•

We are subject to regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations

Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit
improper payments to government officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.



•

In serving U.S. customers of our electric motors business, we manufacture a significant portion of our products in Mexico and China, which exposes
us to the risk of increased labor costs due to both wage inflation in Mexico and stability or increases in the value of the Mexican peso and Chinese RMB relative to the U.S. dollar

Almost all of our electric motor manufacturing productive labor hours are incurred in Mexico and China. The peso based costs we incur manufacturing
these products are directly related to changes in labor costs in Mexico and fluctuations in exchange rates of the Mexican peso relative to the U.S. dollar. The labor costs we incur are measured in U.S. dollars and based on the cost of labor in
Mexican pesos. Historically, Mexico has had higher wage inflation than the United States. That inflation does not adversely affect our costs when there is a corresponding decrease in the value of the Mexican peso relative to the U.S. dollar.
However, during periods in which the value of the Mexican peso increases or remains stable relative to the U.S. dollar, higher wage inflation in Mexico results in an increase in our labor costs. Manufacturing and material costs we incur in China are
principally incurred in Chinese RMB. If the RMB continues to strengthen against the U.S. dollar, our costs would increase.

•

Our operations could be adversely impacted by material price volatility and supplier concentration

The market prices for certain key materials we purchase (e.g., steel, copper, aluminum, diesel fuel and natural gas) have been very volatile in the recent
past. While our company periodically enters into futures contracts to fix the cost of certain raw material purchases, principally copper and aluminum, significant increases in the cost of any of the key materials we purchase could increase our cost
of doing business and ultimately could lead to lower operating earnings if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers. Historically, there has been a lag in any customer recovery of increased material
costs which could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, in some cases we are dependent on a single or limited number of suppliers for some of the raw materials and components required in the manufacture of our product. A significant
disruption or termination of the supply from one of these suppliers could delay sales or increase cost which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•

Our underfunded pension plans require future pension contributions which could limit our flexibility in managing our company

Due to the negative investment returns in 2008, the projected benefit obligations of our defined benefit pension plans
exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by $233 million at December 31, 2009. Beginning in 2008, the minimum required contribution equals the target normal cost plus a seven year amortization of any funding shortfall, offset by any ERISA
credit balance. While the company is not required to make a contribution to the plan in 2010, the company is forecasting contributions of between $25 to $30 million and $40 to $50 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Among the key
assumptions inherent in the actuarially calculated pension plan obligation and pension plan expense are the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets. If interest rates and actual rates of return on invested plan assets were to
decrease significantly, our pension plan obligations could increase materially. The size of future required pension contributions could result in us dedicating a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making the contributions which
could negatively impact our flexibility in managing the company.

•

We have significant goodwill and an impairment of our goodwill could cause a decline in our net worth

Our total assets include significant goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase price we paid over the
fair value of the tangible and intangible assets we acquired. We assess whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or sooner if triggering events warrant. If future operating
performance at either of our businesses does not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating results for goodwill impairment. The recognition of an impairment of a
significant portion of goodwill would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. A significant reduction in our stockholders’ equity due to an impairment of goodwill may affect
our ability to maintain the required debt-to-capital ratio existing under our debt arrangements. We have identified the valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a critical accounting policy. See “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



•

We purchased a water treatment company in late 2009 and we may encounter integration or operational difficulties

We purchased 80 percent of the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. of Hong Kong on November 24, 2009. The successful integration
of the acquisition will require substantial attention from our management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time management has to serve and attract customers. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to
successfully integrate this recent acquisition, that this acquisition will operate profitably or that it will be able to achieve the financial or operational success we expect from the acquisition. Our financial condition, cash flows and operational
results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate the newly acquired business or if our other businesses suffer on account of the increased focus on the newly acquired business.

•

A substantial contribution to our financial results has come through acquisitions, and we may not be able to identify or complete future
acquisitions, which could adversely affect our future growth

Acquisitions we have made since 1997 have had a
significant impact on our results of operations. While we will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory
terms, utilize cash flow from operations, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions, or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. If we complete any future acquisitions, then we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired
businesses or operate them profitably or accomplish our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness may increase in the future if we finance acquisitions with debt, which would cause us to incur additional interest expense
and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions will not have a material adverse affect
on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•

Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits and claims

Our water heater and electric motor products expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and use of
our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, that this insurance will provide adequate protection
against potential liabilities or that our insurance providers will successfully weather the current economic downturn. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of successful claims against us could materially and
adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

•

Our credit facility expires in February 2011 and the terms of its replacement will be based on prevailing lending conditions when it is replaced

In addition to issuing commercial paper and utilizing short term credit lines, we rely on our $425 million revolving credit
facility to support our daily operations. The global credit markets tightened considerably in 2008 and recovered somewhat in 2009. If these conditions remain unchanged or worsen, our replacement credit facility may have less favorable terms than the
facility we have now. In particular, the new facility could have higher borrowing costs and more restrictive covenants. And, depending on banks’ willingness to lend, the facility could be smaller in size. If credit terms deteriorate
considerably, a credit facility with significantly less favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

•

Changes in regulations or standards could adversely affect our business

Our products are subject to a wide variety of statutory, regulatory and industry standards and requirements. These include energy efficiency, climate
emissions, labeling and safety-related requirements. While we believe our products are currently some of the most efficient, safest, and environment-friendly products available, a significant change to these regulatory requirements, whether
federal, state or local, or otherwise to industry standards could substantially increase manufacturing costs, impact the size and timing of demand for our products, or put us at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could harm our business and
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.



•

Income tax regulations may change, thus negatively impacting our future operating results

We conduct our business internationally. As a result, our financial results may be negatively impacted by changes in international taxation rules in the
United States. If the United States international tax law changes are enacted as currently being discussed, it may have a significant negative impact on our reported financial results and cash flows from operations.

•

Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit have the ability to influence all matters requiring stockholder
approval

We have two classes of common equity: our Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock. The holders of
Common Stock currently are entitled, as a class, to elect only one-third of our board of directors. The holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled, as a class, to elect the remaining directors. Certain members of the founding family of our
company and trusts for their benefit (Smith Family) have entered into a voting trust agreement with respect to shares of our Class A Common Stock and shares of our Common Stock they own. As of December 31, 2009, these members of the Smith
Family own approximately 54.96 percent of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, taken together as a single class, and approximately 80.47 percent of the voting power of the outstanding shares
of our Class A Common Stock, as a separate class. Due to the differences in the voting rights between shares of our Common Stock and shares of our Class A Common Stock, the Smith Family is in a position to control to a large extent the
outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or approval of transactions involving a change of control. This ownership position may increase if other members of
the Smith Family enter into the voting trust agreement, and the voting power relating to this ownership position may increase if shares of our Class A Common Stock held by stockholders who are not parties to the voting trust agreement are
converted into shares of our Common Stock. The voting trust agreement provides that in the event one of the parties to the voting trust agreement wants to withdraw from the trust or transfer any of its shares of our Class A Common Stock, such
shares of our Class A Common Stock are automatically exchanged for shares of our Common Stock held by the trust to the extent available in the trust. In addition, the trust will have the right to purchase the shares of our Class A Common
Stock and our Common Stock proposed to be withdrawn or transferred from the trust. As a result, the Smith Family members that are parties to the voting trust agreement have the ability to maintain their collective voting rights in our company even
if certain members of the Smith Family decide to transfer their shares.



ITEM 1B - UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2
- - PROPERTIES

Properties utilized by the company at December 31, 2009 were as follows:

Water Products

This segment has 16
manufacturing plants located in 5 states and 5 non-USA countries, of which 11 are owned directly by the company or its subsidiaries and 5 are leased from outside parties. Lease terms generally provide for minimum terms of one to ten years and have
one or more renewal options. The term of leases in effect at December 31, 2009 expire between 2010 and 2015.

Electrical Products

This segment has 20 manufacturing plants located in 1 state and 3 non-USA countries, of which 10 are owned directly by the company or
its subsidiaries and 10 are leased from outside parties. Lease terms generally provide for minimum terms of one to twenty years and have one or more renewal options. The term of leases in effect at December 31, 2009, expire between 2010 and
2015.

Corporate and General

The company considers its plants and other physical properties to be suitable, adequate, and of sufficient productive capacity to meet the requirements of its business. The manufacturing plants operate at varying levels of utilization
depending on the type of operation and market conditions. The executive offices of the company, which are leased, are located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are involved in various unresolved legal actions,
administrative proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business involving product liability, property damage, insurance coverage, exposure to asbestos and other substances, patents and environmental matters, including the disposal of
hazardous waste. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions or the range of possible loss or recovery, we believe, based on past experience, adequate reserves and insurance availability, that
these unresolved legal actions will not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. A more detailed discussion of these matters appears in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 4 - SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the security holders during the fourth quarter of 2009.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

Pursuant to General Instruction of G(3) of Form 10-K, the following is a list of the executive officers which is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of
this report in lieu of being included in the company’s Proxy Statement for its 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.





PART II

ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

(a)

Market Information

. Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AOS. The Class A Common Stock of A. O. Smith Corporation is
not listed. Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, N.A., P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota, 55164-0854 serves as the registrar, stock transfer agent and the dividend reinvestment agent for the company’s Common Stock and Class A Common
Stock.

Quarterly Common Stock Price Range

(b)

Holders

. As of January 29, 2010, the approximate number of shareholders of record of Common Stock and Class A Common Stock were 950 and 350,
respectively.

(c)

Dividends

. Dividends declared on the common stock are shown in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere herein.

(d)

Stock Repurchases

. On December 14, 2007, the company’s board of directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to one
million shares of the company’s common stock. This stock repurchase authorization remains effective until terminated by the company’s board of directors. As of December 31, 2009, no shares were repurchased under the December 14,
2007 authorization.

(e)

Performance Graph

. The following information in this Item 5 of this Annual Report on form 10-K is not deemed to be “soliciting material” or to be
“filed” with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into
any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such a filing.



The graph below shows a five-year comparison of the cumulative shareholder return on the
Company’s Common Stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P Small cap 600 Index, the S&P 600 Electrical Equipment Index and the Russell 1000 Index, all of which are published indices. As our Electrical products segment now
represents less than one-third of net sales, the S&P 600 Electrical Equipment Index is no longer a relevant benchmark for our stock. The Russell 1000 Index, a broader market index, will be used going forward.

Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return

From December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2009

Assumes $100 invested with
Reinvestment of Dividends



ITEM 6 – SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The data presented in the table below includes the impact of the company’s merger transaction with Smith Investment Company (SICO) which closed on
April 22, 2009 and is discussed further in the Consolidation section of Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The data for the years prior to 2009 differ from the presentation in previous year’s Form 10-K’s as
a result of restatement for the SICO transaction.

(dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

(1)

In November 2009, the company acquired an 80 percent interest in the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd.

(2)

In April 2006, the company acquired GSW Inc., (GSW) a publicly traded Canadian based manufacturer of water heaters and building products. In December
2006, the company sold the building products segment of this business which was treated as a discontinued operation.

(3)

In November 2005, the company acquired Yueyang Zhongmin Special Electrical Machinery Co., Ltd.

(4)

Excludes the current portion of long-term debt.



ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We achieved net earnings of $81.3 million or $3.39 per diluted share in 2009, compared with $21.7 million or $2.29 per diluted share in 2008 and $30.4 million or $3.21 per diluted share in 2007. Our
reported earnings and earnings per share under GAAP have been impacted by required accounting related to our transaction with Smith Investment Company (SICO), which closed on April 22, 2009 and is discussed in more detail in Note 1 of the Notes
to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. For accounting purposes, the former controlling shareholder, SICO, is treated as the acquirer even though we (A. O. Smith Corporation) are the surviving corporation from a legal standpoint. Prior year
and current year earnings and earnings per share amounts reported by us include SICO earnings and shares outstanding as adjusted for the exchange ratio of the merger transaction prior to the closing date.

The primary accounting impact of the SICO transaction is in the calculation of earnings per share because the accounting rules require the use of SICO
adjusted average shares outstanding prior to closing. Eliminating the impact of the transaction as set forth in the table below, non-GAAP net earnings in 2009 were $89.7 million or $2.96 per diluted share and compare with non-GAAP net earnings of
$81.9 million or $2.70 per diluted share in 2008 and with non-GAAP net earnings of $88.2 million or $2.85 per diluted share in 2007. The 2009 non-GAAP earnings and earnings per diluted share set all time full year records.

We believe that presenting non-GAAP financial information permits investors to compare our financial results for the current period to our historical
results for the periods reported. Although future discrete quarterly financial information will not be affected by the transaction, 2009 full year and previously reported periods were impacted. During 2010, we will continue to present non-GAAP
earnings per share information for purposes of comparing the financial results of the current period to our historical financial results. Management also uses the non-GAAP information for all internal purposes of reporting results of operations
including return on investment measures utilized in determining certain incentive-based compensation and employee profit sharing amounts. Below is a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings and earnings per share as discussed above.

A. O. Smith Corporation

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Data

In millions, except per share amounts

The non-GAAP presentation of adjusted earnings per share should not be
construed as an alternative to the results reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. It is provided solely to assist in the investor’s understanding of the impact of these items on the comparability of the company’s operations

(1)

Reported shares are calculated as the weighted average of SICO shares prior to the closing and A. O. Smith shares after the closing

Our individual segment performance will be discussed later in this section.



Our working capital for continuing operations was $248.7 million at December 31, 2009 compared with
$279.8 million and $304.5 million at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. The $31.1 million reduction in working capital in 2009 resulted from lower inventory levels of $66.9 million, as a result of focused inventory
reduction programs at both businesses and higher accounts payable at our Water Products segment as a result of improved vendor terms. These improvements were partially offset by a $71.4 million (non-cash) decline in our derivative contracts
liability. The $14.9 million reduction in our working capital in 2008 resulted from the recognition of a $73.0 million (non-cash) liability for derivative contracts and lower accounts receivable balances at both businesses related to volume
declines, which were partially offset by higher inventories and lower accounts payable balances at our Electrical Products segment and cash deposits of $22.5 million associated with derivative contracts.

Cash provided by operating activities during 2009 was an all-time record of $267.6 million compared with $98.4 million during 2008 and $185.4 million during
2007. A significant decline in our working capital needs this year compared with an increase last year and higher earnings explain the majority of the improved 2009 cash flow. Lower net earnings in 2008 compared with 2007 and the changes in
cash-related working capital accounts described above explain the majority of the decline in 2008. We expect cash provided by operating activities to be between $115 and $125 million in 2010.

Our capital expenditures were $57.0 million in 2009, lower than the $66.1 million spent in 2008. Our capital spending in 2007 was $71.4 million. We are
projecting 2010 capital expenditures of between $75 and $85 million and 2010 depreciation and amortization of approximately $75 million. 2010 capital spending includes the completion of the construction of the water heater manufacturing plant near
Bangalore, India and the start of construction of a new water treatment manufacturing facility in China.

We have a $425 million
multi-currency revolving credit facility with a group of eight banks which expires in February 2011. The facility has an accordion provision which allows it to be increased up to $500 million if certain conditions (including lender approval) are
satisfied. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined by our leverage ratio. The facility requires us to maintain two financial covenants, a leverage ratio test and an interest coverage test, and we were in compliance with the covenants
during all of calendar year 2009.

The facility backs up commercial paper and credit line borrowings, and it expires on February 17,
2011. As a result of the long-term nature of this facility, the commercial paper and credit line borrowings, as well as drawings under the facility are classified as long-term debt. At December 31, 2009, we had available borrowing capacity of
$308.3 million under this facility. We believe that the combination of available borrowing capacity and operating cash flow will provide sufficient funds to finance our existing operations for the foreseeable future. We plan to have the replacement
to this facility in place in the third quarter of 2010, and we do not anticipate any problems completing the new facility at this time.

Our
acquisition of 80 percent of the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. of Hong Kong was completed on November 24, 2009 for $76.7 million. We used the record cash flow generated in 2009 to pay for the acquisition and pay down
debt. Our total debt was $253.2 million at the end of December 2009 compared with $334.8 million at the end of 2008. Our leverage, as measured by the ratio of total debt to total capitalization, was 24.3 percent at the end of 2009 and 33.5 percent
at the end of 2008.

GSW operated a captive insurance company to provide product liability and general liability insurance to its subsidiary,
American Water Heater Company (American). We decided to cover American’s liability exposures with our existing insurance programs and operate the captive in runoff effective July 1, 2006. The reinsurance company restricts the amount of
capital which must be maintained by the captive. At December 31, 2009, the restricted amount was $17.2 million compared with $26.3 million at the end of 2008 and is included in other non-current assets. The restricted assets are invested in
money market securities.

In February 2007, our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program in the amount of one million shares of
our common stock. During 2007, we completed the repurchase of all one million shares at an average cost of $36.62 per share. Our board approved an additional one million shares to be repurchased under this program at its December 2007 meeting. As of
December 31, 2009, we have not repurchased any shares under the authorization approved in December 2007.

Our pension plan continues to
meet all funding requirements under ERISA regulations. While we were not required to make a contribution to the plan in 2009, we elected to make a contribution of $50.8 million. We are not required to make a contribution in 2010; however, the
company is forecasting contributions to the pension plan to be between $25 and $30 million in 2010 and between $40 and $50 million in 2011. For further information on our pension plan, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



We have paid dividends for 70 consecutive years with payments increasing each of the last 18 years. We paid
total dividends of $.77 per share in 2009 compared with $.74 per share in 2008.

Aggregate Contractual Obligations

A summary of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009, is as follows:

As of December 31, 2009, the liability for uncertain income tax
positions was $4.5 million. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding timing of potential future cash flows associated with these liabilities, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period in which these
liabilities might be paid.

We utilize blanket purchase orders to communicate expected annual requirements to many of our suppliers.
Requirements under blanket purchase orders generally do not become committed until several weeks prior to the company’s scheduled unit production. The purchase obligation amount presented above represents the value of commitments considered
firm.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our sales in 2009 were slightly less than $2.0 billion reflecting a decrease of approximately 14.0 percent from 2008 sales of $2.3 billion. The decline in sales resulted from lower volume for residential and commercial water heaters in
North America and declining market demand at Electrical Products. Lower sales at both of our operating units reflect historically low levels of housing starts and reduced commercial construction activity caused by the global recession. Sales in 2008
were about equal to sales of $2.31 billion in 2007 as a $28.2 million increase in sales at our Water Products segment was more than offset by a $35.9 million decline in sales in our Electrical Products segment. The higher Water Products sales were
due mostly to increased sales in China and material related price increases which were partially offset by significantly lower residential volume. The decline at Electrical Products resulted primarily from lower unit volumes associated with the weak
housing market.

Our gross profit margin for 2009 was 25.1 percent compared to 21.6 percent in 2008 as both of our operating units experienced
increased margins in 2009. The higher margins were due to lower material costs, benefits from prior years restructuring activities at Electrical Products as well as LIFO benefits and ongoing cost containment activities at both operations. Our gross
profit margin in 2007 was 22.2 percent. The decline in 2008 margin resulted from lower margins at Water Products which more than offset increased margins at Electrical Products. The higher margins at Electrical Products were due to commercial
contract improvements, including pricing, at targeted accounts and repositioning savings. The lower margins at Water Products were caused by higher raw material costs, primarily steel, and its related effect on warranty costs which were partially
offset by improvements in pricing.

Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A) was $7.3 million higher in 2009 than in 2008. The
increased SG&A was associated with selling costs to support higher volume at the Water Products China operation. SG&A was $5.6 million lower in 2008 than in 2007 as lower product liability expense primarily associated with an adverse verdict
in 2007 at Water Products and lower bad debt provisions at both our product operations more than offset higher SG&A in support of increased sales at our China water heater operation.

Pension expense in 2009 was $8.3 million compared to $4.0 million in 2008 and $12.2 million in 2007. The increase in pension expense from 2008 to 2009 was due to lower investment returns caused by a
decline in plan assets due to the market



downturn in 2008 and the associated higher amortization of deferred asset losses. The decrease in pension expense from 2007 to 2008 was due to an increase in the discount rate, lower amortization
of deferred asset losses, and the absence of curtailment and other charges of $1.1 million.

We had pretax restructuring income of $0.3
million in 2009 and recorded pretax restructuring charges of $11.1 million and $24.6 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Electrical Products segment recognized 2009 restructuring income of $1.6 million resulting from the sale of its
Shenzhen, China electric motor facility, as partially offset by moving costs associated with previous plant closures. The Shenzhen facility was sold to the Chinese government which exercised eminent domain relative to a road construction project.
Corporate expense includes $1.3 million of 2009 restructuring charges, the majority of which is associated with the loss on sale of a vacated facility from a previously owned business. The majority of the charges in 2008, consisting primarily of
severance and asset impairment, were associated with the plant closures initiated by Electrical Products in 2007 and completed in 2008. The 2008 charges also included $1.9 million of expenses incurred by SICO relative to the merger transaction. In
2007, $22.8 million of restructuring expense was recognized by Electrical Products with $12.0 million of the charge attributed to the closing of our operations in Scottsville, KY and Mebane, NC and the write down of other assets. The closing of
these plants resulted in our hermetic motor assembly operations being consolidated in Acuna, Mexico and Suzhou, China. A pretax charge of $9.2 million associated with the closing of our motor facility in Budapest, Hungary was also included in the
2007 charge. A pretax charge of $1.6 million was also included in the 2007 Electrical Products charge for certain other domestic repositioning and asset write down expenses. In addition to the 2007 restructuring charges at Electrical Products, we
also recognized a $1.9 million corporate charge related to a previously owned business.

Interest expense was $11.8 million, $19.8 million and
$27.6 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The continuous decline is a result of lower interest rates and lower debt levels.

Net
other expense was $3.0 million and $1.9 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net other income in 2007 was $1.2 million. Interest income on restricted marketable securities declined by $0.7 million in 2009 and $1.0 million in 2008 due to the
liquidation of short term securities amounting to $8.9 million and $12.0 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The remainder of the differential in net other expense is due to increased exchange losses in 2009 and 2008 as foreign currencies
continued to strengthen against the U.S. dollar.

Our effective tax rate was 24.8 percent in 2009, 26.1 percent in 2008, and 11.3 percent in
2007. The 2007 effective rate included a $3.7 million tax benefit upon completion of tax audits and lapse of statutes of limitations for uncertain tax positions and a $1.1 million China investment incentive tax benefit. Also included in
the 2007 rate is a $9.9 million tax benefit associated with the write-off of the investment in our Hungarian subsidiary.

Our 2009 net
earnings on a GAAP basis were $81.3 million or $3.39 per share compared with $21.7 million or $2.29 per share in 2008 and $30.4 million or $3.21 per share in 2007. On a Non-GAAP basis, 2009 net earnings were $89.7 million or $2.96 per share compared
with $81.9 million or $2.70 per share in 2008 and $88.2 million or $2.85 per share in 2007. Please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion of net earnings.

Water Products

Sales for our Water Products segment were $1.38 billion in 2009 or
5.2 percent lower than sales of $1.45 billion in 2008. Sales at our China water heater operation increased by $34.5 million or 18.5 percent to $221.1 million in 2009. Our strong growth in China, as well as improved year-over-year pricing, was more
than offset by lower residential and commercial volume in North America, reflecting continuing softness in the domestic housing market and a slowdown in the commercial water heater business. Sales in 2008 increased modestly over sales of $1.42
billion in 2007. While 2008 sales at our China water heater operation increased by $40.1 million, sales for residential water heaters were significantly lower in 2008 and partially offset the growth in China.

Operating earnings for Water Products were $148.9 million in 2009 or 10.5 percent higher than earnings of $134.7 million in 2008. The improvement in 2009
earnings resulted from increased higher margin China volumes, continued aggressive cost reduction programs and lower material costs. Operating earnings of $134.7 million in 2008 were 10.2 percent lower than earnings of $150.0 million in 2007.
The impact of growth in China and lower SG&A was more than offset by lower residential volume and higher costs for raw materials and components which were not recovered with price increases.



Electrical Products

Sales for our Electrical Products segment in 2009 were $620.4 million or 27.7 percent lower than 2008 as a result of weak residential and commercial construction markets due to the global recession. Sales
in 2008 of $858.1 million were 4.0 percent lower than 2007. In 2008 increased selling prices to offset higher costs for raw materials were more than offset by lower unit volume caused by the weak housing market as well as customer inventory
reductions at the end of the year.

Operating earnings at our Electrical Products segment were $32.5 million in 2009 compared with $39.1
million in 2008. The lower earnings were due to significant volume declines which were partially offset by repositioning savings, cost reduction activities, and lower raw material and restructuring charges. Additionally, the 2009 earnings included a
$6.6 million incremental favorable LIFO adjustment, net of lower absorption of fixed costs resulting from substantial reductions in inventory levels. Also included in 2009 earnings was net restructuring income of $1.6 million as mentioned previously
in the discussion of consolidated restructuring costs. Operating earnings of $39.1 million in 2008 compared with $23.1 million in 2007 due to a decrease in restructuring charges from $22.8 million in 2007 to $8.7 million in 2008.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our
accounting policies are described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Also as disclosed in Note 1, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the
determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements.

The most significant accounting estimates inherent in the preparation of our financial statements include estimates associated with the evaluation of the
impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as significant estimates used in the determination of liabilities related to warranty activity, product liability, and pensions. Various assumptions and other factors underlie
the determination of these significant estimates. The process of determining significant estimates is fact-specific and takes into account factors such as historical experience and trends, and in some cases, actuarial techniques. We constantly
reevaluate these significant factors and adjustments are made when facts and circumstances dictate. Historically, actual results have not significantly deviated from those determined using the estimates described above.

Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets

In conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be
impaired. We perform impairment reviews for our reporting units using a fair-value method based on management’s judgments and assumptions. The fair value represents the estimated amount at which a reporting unit could be bought or sold in a
current transaction between willing parties on an arms-length basis. The estimated fair value is then compared with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including recorded goodwill. We are subject to financial statement risk to the extent that
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired. Any impairment review is, by its nature, highly judgmental as estimates of future sales, earnings and cash flows are utilized to determine fair values. However, we believe that we
conduct annual thorough and competent valuations of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and that there has been no impairment.

Product warranty

Our products carry warranties that generally range from one to ten years and are based on terms that are
generally accepted in the market. We provide for the estimated cost of product warranty at the time of sale. The product warranty provision is estimated based upon warranty loss experience using actual historical failure rates and estimated costs of
product replacement. The variables used in the calculation of the provision are reviewed on a periodic basis. At times, warranty issues may arise which are beyond the scope of our historical experience. While our warranty costs have historically
been within calculated estimates, it is possible that future warranty costs could differ significantly from those estimates. We provide for any such warranty issues as they become known and estimable. The allocation of the warranty liability between
current and long-term is based on the expected warranty liability to be paid in the next year as determined by historical product failure rates.



Product liability

Due to the nature of our products, we are subject to product liability claims in the normal course of business. A majority of these claims involve our Water Products business. We maintain insurance to
reduce our risk. Most insurance coverage includes self-insured retentions that vary by year. As of December 31, 2009, we maintained a self-insured retention of $5.0 million per occurrence with an aggregate insurance limit of $125.0 million per
occurrence.

GSW insurance coverage included self-insurance retentions that varied by business segment and by year. Effective April 3,
2006, GSW maintained a $25.0 million aggregate loss retention through self-insurance and captive insurance company coverage. GSW claims occurring on or after July 1, 2006 are covered under the company’s insurance program.

We establish product liability reserves for our self-insured retention portion of any known outstanding matters based on the likelihood of loss and our
ability to reasonably estimate such loss. There is inherent uncertainty as to the eventual resolution of unsettled matters due to the unpredictable nature of litigation. We make estimates based on available information and our best judgment after
consultation with appropriate advisors and experts. We periodically revise estimates based upon changes to facts or circumstances. We also use an actuary to calculate reserves required for estimated incurred but not reported claims as well as to
estimate the effect of adverse development of claims over time.

Pensions

We have significant pension benefit costs that are developed from actuarial valuations. The valuations reflect key assumptions regarding, among other
things, discount rates, expected return on assets, retirement ages, and years of service. Consideration is given to current market conditions, including changes in interest rates in making these assumptions. Our assumption for the expected rate of
return on plan assets is 8.75 percent in 2009, unchanged from 2008. The discount rate used to determine net periodic pension costs increased from 6.50 percent in 2008 to 6.60 percent in 2009. In 2010, the rate of return on plan assets is 8.75
percent and the discount rate is 5.80 percent.

In developing our expected long-term rate of return assumption, we evaluate our pension
plan’s target asset allocation, the historical long-term rates of return of equity and bond indices and the actual historical returns of our pension plan. Our plan’s target allocation to equity managers is between 60 to 70 percent, with
the remainder allocated primarily to bond managers and a small allocation to private equity managers. Our actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2009, was 60 percent to equity managers, 30 percent to bond managers, five percent to private
equity managers and the remainder in money market instruments. We regularly review our actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance our investments to our targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Our pension plan’s historical
10-year and 25-year compounded annualized returns are 3.6 percent and 10.7 percent, respectively. We believe that with our target allocation and the historical long-term returns of equity and bond indices as well as our actual historical returns,
our 8.75 percent expected return on assets for 2010 is reasonable.

The discount rate assumptions used to determine future pension obligations
at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were based on the Hewitt top quartile yield Curve (HTQ), which was designed by Hewitt Associates to provide a means for plan sponsors to value the liabilities of their postretirement benefit plans. The HTQ is
a hypothetical double A yield curve represented by a series of annualized individual discount rates. Each bond issue underlying the HTQ is required to have a rating of Aa or better by Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. or a rating of AA or better
by Standard & Poor’s. Because of the volatile bond market, we adjusted our discount rate as of December 31, 2008 to take into account the effect of bonds that were on credit watch on December 31, 2008 and were subsequently
downgraded below a AA rating before January 15, 2009. The discount rates determined on the basis described above were 5.80 percent, 6.60 percent and 6.50 percent at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We will continue to
evaluate our actuarial assumptions at least annually, and we will adjust the assumptions as necessary.

We estimate that we will recognize
approximately $13.0 million of pension expense in 2010 compared to $8.3 million in 2009. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on assets by 25 basis points would increase our net pension expense for 2010 by approximately $1.6 million.
Lowering the discount rate by 25 basis points would increase our 2010 net pension expense by approximately $1.1 million.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Codification Statement (“ASC”) Sub-topic 855-10 (formerly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 165), “Subsequent Events”. Sub-topic 855-10 addresses the types and timing of events that should be reported in the financial statements for events that occur between the balance sheet date and the date the
financial statements are issued or available to be issued. We reviewed events for possible inclusion in the financial statements through our filing date of February 26, 2010.

In March 2008, the FASB issued ASC Sub-topic 815-10, “Derivatives and Hedging”. Sub-topic 815-10 (formerly SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, an Amendment of FASB No. 133”), is intended to improve transparency in financial reporting by requiring enhanced disclosures of an entity’s derivative instruments and hedging activities and their effects on the
entity’s financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. ASC 815-10 applies to all derivative instruments within the scope of SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” (“SFAS
133”). It also applies to non-derivative hedging instruments and all hedged items designated and qualifying under SFAS 133 and is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after
November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. This pronouncement encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosures for periods prior to its initial adoption. We adopted ASC 815-10 on January 1, 2009. Adoption of this
statement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 1 for further discussion.

In December 2007, the FASB issued ASC Sub-topic 810-10-65, “Consolidations”, (formerly SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB
No. 51”). This pronouncement changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This new consolidation method changes the
accounting for transactions with minority interest holders and is effective beginning in 2009. We adopted ASC 810-10-65 on January 1, 2009. Adoption of this statement has impacted our accounting for the SICO transaction as well as the
acquisition of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. and has been incorporated in the accompanying financial statements.

In December 2007, the FASB
issued ASC Sub-topic 805-10, “Business Combinations”, (formerly SFAS No. 141(R)). ASC 805-10 requires us to continue to follow prior guidance for certain aspects of business combinations, with additional guidance provided
defining the acquirer, recognizing and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, assets and liabilities arising from contingencies, defining a bargain purchase and
recognizing and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase. In addition, certain transaction costs previously capitalized as part of the purchase price will be expensed as incurred. Also, under ASC 805-10 adjustments associated with
changes in tax contingencies that occur after the one year measurement period are recorded as adjustments to income. This statement is effective for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of an
entity’s first fiscal year that begins after December 15, 2008; however, the guidance in this standard regarding the treatment of income tax contingencies is retrospective to business combinations completed prior to January 1, 2009.
We have adopted ASC 805-10 on January 1, 2009 and incorporated the impact of this statement in the accounting for the SICO transaction and the acquisition of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd.

Outlook

There are a number of positive
trends going into 2010, most notably continued growth in China and India, a full year of our new water treatment business, and evidence of improved demand in many of our global motor markets. We remain cautious because of continued weakness in new
commercial construction activity and rising commodity costs. Consequently, we expect earnings per share to be in the range of $2.95 to $3.25 in 2010.

OTHER MATTERS

Environmental

Our operations are governed by a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws concerning the generation and management of hazardous materials, the discharge of pollutants into the
environment and remediation of sites owned by the company or third parties. We have expended financial and managerial resources complying with such laws. Expenditures related to environmental matters were not material in 2009 and are not expected to
be material in any single year. We have accrued amounts associated with environmental obligations at various facilities and we believe these reserves are sufficient to cover reasonably anticipated remediation costs. Although we believe that our
operations are substantially in compliance with



such laws and maintain procedures designed to maintain compliance, there are no assurances that substantial additional costs for compliance will not be incurred in the future. However, since the
same laws govern our competitors, we should not be placed at a competitive disadvantage.

Market Risk

We are exposed to various types of market risks, primarily currency and certain commodities. We monitor our risks in such areas on a continuous basis and
generally enter into forward and futures contracts to minimize such exposures for periods of less than one year. We do not engage in speculation in our derivatives strategies. Further discussion regarding derivative instruments is contained in Note
1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Commodity risks include raw material price fluctuations. We use futures contracts to fix the
cost of our expected needs for certain raw materials (i.e. copper and aluminum) with the objective of reducing price risk. Futures contracts are purchased over time periods and at volume levels which approximate expected usage. At December 31,
2009, we had commodity futures contracts amounting to $33.5 million of commodity purchases. A hypothetical ten percent change in the underlying commodity price of such contracts would have a potential impact of $3.4 million. It is important to note
that gains and losses from our futures contract activities will be offset by gains and losses in the underlying commodity purchase transactions being hedged.

In addition, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the effect of fluctuating foreign currencies. At December 31, 2009, we had net foreign currency contracts outstanding of
$119.8 million. Assuming a hypothetical ten percent movement in the respective currencies, the potential foreign exchange gain or loss associated with the change in rates would amount to $12.0 million. It is important to note that gains and losses
from our forward contract activities will be offset by gains and losses in the underlying transactions being hedged.

Our earnings exposure
related to movements in interest rates is primarily derived from outstanding floating-rate debt instruments that are determined by short-term money market rates. At December 31, 2009, we had $91.7 million in outstanding floating-rate debt with
a weighted-average interest rate of 0.8 percent at year end. A hypothetical ten percent annual increase or decrease in the year-end average cost of our outstanding floating-rate debt would result in a change in annual pretax interest expense of
approximately $0.1 million.

Smith Investment Company Transaction

On December 9, 2008, we entered into a merger agreement with our largest stockholder, Smith Investment Company (SICO), providing for SICO to become a wholly-owned subsidiary of our company in a tax
free exchange. As a result of the merger, the stockholders of SICO now own shares of our company directly, rather than through SICO. Pursuant to the merger agreement, stockholders of SICO received 2.396 shares of our Class A Common Stock and
0.463 shares of our Common Stock for each share of SICO they held, subject to a portion of the Common Stock being placed in escrow to satisfy indemnity claims that we may have under the merger agreement. Prior to the merger, SICO owned approximately
97.9 percent of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 7.1% of our outstanding Common Stock. The merger agreement was approved by our stockholders on April 14, 2009 and was consummated on April 22, 2009.

The transaction with SICO has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition with SICO as the accounting acquirer and our company (which is the surviving
entity for legal purposes) as the accounting acquiree. As this is a common control transaction under ASC 805 Business Combinations (formerly FAS 141(R)), the transaction is accounted for as an equity transaction under ASC 810-10 Consolidations
(formerly FAS 160). The acquisition of a non-controlling interest does not require purchase accounting.

Furthermore, because SICO is the
continuing reporting entity for accounting purposes, the reports filed by us as the surviving corporation in the transaction will parallel the financial reporting required under GAAP and SEC reporting rules as if SICO were the legal successor as of
the date of the transaction. Accordingly, prior period financial information presented in our financial statements reflects the historical activity of SICO.

On January 19, 2009, SICO distributed all of its assets and liabilities other than its ownership of our stock. These assets and liabilities related primarily to the multicolor printing business
conducted through Berlin Industries, Inc. and the commercial warehousing, trucking and packaging business conducted through Central States Distribution Service, Inc. For periods prior to this distribution, the results of operations, net assets and
cash flows for these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements.



Forward-Looking Statements

This filing contains statements that the company believes are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements
generally can be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “forecast,” “guidance” or words
of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated as of the date of this filing. Factors that could cause such a variance include
the following: significant volatility in raw material prices; competitive pressures on the company’s businesses; inability to implement pricing actions; negative impact of future pension contributions on the company’s ability to generate
cash flow; instability in the company’s electric motor and water products markets; further weakening in housing construction; further weakening in commercial construction; timing of any recoveries in housing or commercial construction; a
slowdown in the Chinese economy; further adverse changes in customer liquidity and general economic and capital market conditions; the impact of acquisition accounting or non-GAAP financial measures on the company’s financial statements; or
difficulties in integrating the China acquisition, and realizing future growth and profit expectations. Forward-looking statements included in this filing are made only as of the date of this filing, and the company is under no obligation to update
these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributed to the company, or persons acting on its behalf, are qualified entirely by these cautionary statements.

ITEM 7A – QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

See “Market Risk” above.



ITEM 8 – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

A. O. Smith Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of A. O. Smith Corporation as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, comprehensive earnings, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial
position of A. O. Smith Corporation at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

As discussed in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2009, the Company changed its method of
accounting for noncontrolling interests to conform with Accounting Codification Statement sub-topic 810-10-65, “Consolidations”, (formerly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated
Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51”).

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), A. O. Smith Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 26, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Ernst & Young LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

February 26, 2010



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

December 31 (dollars in millions)

See accompanying notes which are an integral part of these statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS

Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

See accompanying notes which are an integral part of these statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions)

See accompanying notes which are an integral part of these statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies

Organization.

A. O. Smith Corporation (the company) is a manufacturer serving customers worldwide. The company’s major product lines include residential and commercial gas and electric water heating equipment, as well as
fractional horsepower alternating current, direct current, and hermetic electric motors. The company’s products are manufactured and marketed primarily in North America and China. Water heaters are sold through both wholesale and retail
channels to plumbing wholesalers and retail outlets. Electric motors are sold principally to original equipment manufacturers and distributors.

Consolidation.

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and its wholly owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany transactions.

On April 22, 2009, A. O. Smith Corporation closed on a merger transaction with Smith Investment Company (SICO). The merger was approved by the company’s stockholders on
April 14, 2009.

The transaction between the company and SICO has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition with SICO as the accounting
acquirer and the company (which is the surviving entity for legal purposes) as the accounting acquiree. As this is a common control transaction under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805 Business Combinations (formerly FAS 141(R))
the transaction is accounted for as an equity transaction under ASC 810-10 Consolidations (formerly FAS 160). The acquisition of a noncontrolling interest does not require purchase accounting.

Furthermore, because SICO is the continuing reporting entity for accounting purposes, the reports filed by the company as the surviving corporation in the
transaction will parallel the financial reporting required under GAAP and SEC reporting rules as if SICO were the legal successor as of the date of the transaction. Accordingly, prior period financial information presented in the company’s
financial statements reflects the historical activity of SICO.

On January 19, 2009, SICO distributed all of its assets and liabilities
other than its ownership of company stock. These assets and liabilities related primarily to the multicolor printing business conducted through Berlin Industries, Inc. and the commercial warehousing, trucking and packaging business conducted through
Central States Distribution Service, Inc. For periods prior to this distribution, the results of operations, net assets and cash flows for these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements.

Use of estimates.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the accompanying financial statements and notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Fair value of financial instruments.

The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, floating rate debt and trade payables
approximated fair value as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, due to the short maturities or frequent rate resets of these instruments. The fair value of term notes with insurance companies was approximately $142.5 million as of December 31,
2009 compared with the carrying amount of $136.5 million for the same period. The fair value is estimated based on current rates offered for debt with similar maturities.

Foreign currency translation.

For all subsidiaries outside the United States, with the exception of all Mexican operations and two of the China operations of the company’s Electrical Products
segment, the company uses the local currency as the functional currency. For those operations using a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates, and revenues
and expenses are translated at weighted-average exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. The Mexican operations and two of the Chinese operations of the company’s
Electrical Products segment use the U.S. dollar as the functional currency as such operations are a direct and integral component of the company’s U.S. operations. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are included in net
earnings.

Cash and cash equivalents.

The company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when
purchased to be cash equivalents.



1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Inventory valuation.

Inventories are carried at lower of cost or market. Cost is determined on
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all domestic inventories, which comprise 75 percent and 82 percent of the company’s total inventory at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Inventories of foreign subsidiaries and
supplies are determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.

Property, plant and equipment.

Property, plant and equipment are
stated at cost. Depreciation is computed primarily by the straight-line method. The estimated service lives used to compute depreciation are generally 25 to 50 years for buildings, 3 to 20 years for equipment and 3 to 7 years for software.
Maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred.

Goodwill and other intangibles.

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets
are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. Indefinite-lived assets totaled $45.2 million and $34.6 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Intangible assets of $42.2 million including $8.2 million
with an indefinite life were recorded as a part of the Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. acquisition (see Note 2). The remaining increase in 2009 and the total increase in 2008 was due to currency translation adjustments. Separable intangible assets
primarily comprised of customer relationships that are not deemed to have an indefinite life are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from 10 to 25 years. Amortization of $4.9 million, $4.3 million and
$4.5 million was recorded in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the future, amortization should approximate $6.5 million annually and the intangible assets will be amortized over a weighted average period of 14 years. Total accumulated
amortization at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $16.7 million and $12.5 million, respectively.

Impairment of long-lived and
amortizable intangible assets.

Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the
sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying value of the related asset or group of assets, a loss is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the asset or group of assets. Such analyses
necessarily involve significant judgment.

Derivative instruments.

ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging (formerly SFAS No. 133), as
amended, requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value and establishes criteria for designation and effectiveness of the hedging relationships. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative
instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as a part of a hedging relationship and further, on the type of hedging relationship. For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, the
company must designate the hedging instrument, based upon the exposure hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.

The company designates that all of its hedging instruments are cash flow hedges. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge (i.e., hedging the exposure to variability
in expected future cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of other comprehensive income (OCI), net of tax, and is reclassified into
earnings in the same line item associated with the forecasted transaction and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The amount by which the cumulative change in the value of the hedge more than offsets
the cumulative change in the value of the hedged item (i.e., the ineffective portion) is recorded in earnings, net of tax, in the period the ineffectiveness occurs.

The company utilizes certain derivative instruments to enhance its ability to manage currency and interest rate exposures as well as raw materials price risk. Derivative instruments are entered into for
periods consistent with the related underlying exposures and do not constitute positions independent of those exposures. The company does not enter into contracts for speculative purposes. The contracts are executed with major financial institutions
with no credit loss anticipated for failure of the counterparties to perform.

Commodity Futures Contracts

In addition to entering into supply arrangements in the normal course of business, the company also enters into futures contracts to fix the cost of certain
raw material purchases, principally copper and aluminum, with the objective of minimizing changes in cost due to market price fluctuations. The hedging strategy for achieving this objective is to purchase commodities futures contracts on the open
market of the London Metals Exchange (LME) or over the counter contracts based on the LME.



1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

With one of its brokers, the company is required to make cash deposits on unrealized losses on commodity
derivative contracts that exceed $10.0 million.

The after-tax gain of the effective portion of the contracts of $7.8 million as of
December 31, 2009 was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, and will be reclassified into cost of products sold in the period in which the underlying transaction is recorded in earnings. The effective portion of the contracts
will be reclassified within one year. Commodity hedges outstanding at December 31, 2009 are a total of approximately 14.7 million pounds of copper and aluminum.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts

The company is exposed to foreign currency exchange
risk as a result of transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of certain subsidiaries. The company utilizes foreign currency forward purchase and sale contracts to manage the volatility associated with foreign currency purchases,
sales and certain intercompany transactions in the normal course of business. Principal currencies include the Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi, Canadian dollar and Euro.

Gains and losses on these instruments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, until the underlying transaction is recorded in earnings. When the hedged item is realized, gains or
losses are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to the statement of earnings. The assessment of effectiveness for forward contracts is based on changes in the forward rates. These hedges have been determined to be effective.

The majority of the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss for cash flow hedges is expected to be reclassified into earnings within
one year and all of the hedges will be reclassified into earnings no later than December 19, 2011. Losses of $(0.1) million were recognized in the third quarter of 2009 related to cancelled Chinese renminbi contracts.

The following table summarizes, by currency, the contractual amounts of the company’s foreign currency forward contracts.

Interest Rate Swap Agreement

The company is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of its floating rate borrowings under its revolving credit facility. The company uses interest rate
swaps to manage this risk. As of December 31, 2009, the company had one interest rate swap outstanding in the amount of $25 million that expires in November 2010.

The interest rate swap is designated and accounted for as a cash flow hedge of floating rate debt. A derivative interest rate liability of $1.0 million and $1.8 million as of December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively were recorded in accrued liabilities. Gains and losses on this instrument are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, until the underlying transaction is recorded in earnings. When the hedged item is
realized, gains or losses are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to the statement of earnings. The assessment of effectiveness for the interest rate swap is based on changes in floating rate interest rates. This swap has been
determined to be perfectly effective.



1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

The impact of cash flow hedges on the company’s financial statements is as follows (dollars in
millions):

Fair value of derivative instruments

The effect of derivative instruments on the Statement of Earnings

Year ended December 31, 2009

Fair Value Measurements.

The company adopted ASC 820 Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures (formerly SFAS 157) on January 1, 2008. ASC 820, among other things, defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure for each major asset and liability category
measured at fair value on either a recurring basis or nonrecurring basis. ASC 820 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants. As such fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. As a basis for considering such assumptions, ASC 820
establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: (Level 1) observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; (Level 2) inputs, other than the quoted prices in active
markets, that are observable either directly or indirectly; and (Level 3) unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which require the reporting entity to develop its own assumptions.

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are based on the market approach which are prices and other relevant information generated by market
transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities.

Liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are as follows
(dollars in millions):

Fair Value Measurement Using

Description

Total

December 31, 2009

Quoted Prices In Active

Markets for Identical Contracts

(Level 1)

Significant Other Observable

Inputs (Level 2)

Net derivative contracts

$    17.9

$    12.7

$    5.2



1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

There were no changes in our valuation techniques used to measure fair values on a recurring basis as a
result of adopting ASC

820.

Revenue recognition.

The company recognizes revenue upon transfer of title, which occurs upon
shipment of the product to the customer except for certain export sales where transfer of title occurs when the product reaches the customer destination.

Contracts and customer purchase orders are used to determine the existence of a sales arrangement. Shipping documents are used to verify shipment. The company assesses whether the selling price is fixed
or determinable based upon the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. The company assesses collectibility based on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit
checks and analysis, as well as the customer’s payment history, and does not require collateral on sales in most cases. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $5.2 million and $6.3 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Accruals for customer returns for defective product are based on historical experience with similar types of sales. Accruals for rebates and
incentives are based on pricing agreements and are tied to sales volume. Changes in such accruals may be required if future returns differ from historical experience or if actual sales volume differs from estimated sales volume. Rebates and
incentives are recognized as a reduction of sales.

Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are included in net sales and the related
costs are included in cost of products sold.

Advertising.

The majority of advertising costs are charged to operations as incurred and
amounted to $42.0, $40.3 and $38.0 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Research and development.

Research and
development costs are charged to operations as incurred and amounted to $52.6, $48.5 and $47.8 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Product warranties.

The company’s products carry warranties that generally range from one to ten years and are based on terms that are generally accepted in the market. The company records a liability for the expected cost of
warranty-related claims at the time of sale. The allocation of our warranty liability between current and long-term is based on expected warranty claims to be paid in the next year as determined by historical product failure rates.

The following table presents the company’s product warranty liability activity in 2009 and 2008:

The company has recorded an $8 million receivable to recover certain costs from a vendor under an arrangement which existed
prior to entering into litigation with the vendor in Tennessee State Court. The company believes collection of the receivable and any future amounts (possible to reach an additional $12 million) to be recovered related to this litigation is
probable.

Environmental costs.

The company accrues for losses associated with environmental obligations when such losses are probable
and reasonably estimable. Costs of estimated future expenditures are not discounted to their present value. Recoveries of environmental costs from other parties are recorded as assets when their receipt is considered probable. The accruals are
adjusted as facts and circumstances change.

Stock-based compensation.

The company follows ASC 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation
(formerly SFAS 123(R)). Compensation cost is recognized using the straight-line method over the vesting period of the award. ASC 718 also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing
cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under prior literature. Excess tax deductions of $2.9 million, $1.1 million and $4.8 million were recognized as a financing cash flow in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Earnings per share of common stock.

The numerator for the calculation of basic and diluted
earnings per share is net earnings. The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted weighted-average shares used in the earnings per share calculations:




Denominator for basic earnings per share - weighted-average shares outstanding

23,829,505

9,483,492

9,483,492

Effect of dilutive stock options, restricted stock and share units

125,066

-

-

Denominator for diluted earnings per share

23,954,571

9,483,492

9,483,492

The weighted average shares presented above have been impacted by the
accounting treatment of the company’s transaction with SICO which closed on April 22, 2009 and is discussed in more detail earlier in Note 1 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The primary accounting impact of the SICO
transaction is in the calculation of earnings per share since the accounting rules require the use of SICO adjusted average shares outstanding rather than A. O. Smith Corporation average shares outstanding prior to the closing. The
SICO average shares outstanding reflect the historical shares of SICO multiplied by their exchange ratio from the April 22, 2009 merger transaction. Subsequent to the closing, A. O. Smith Corporation average shares are used in
the calculation.

Restricted marketable securities.

The company acquired GSW in 2006. GSW operated a captive insurance company to
provide product liability and general liability insurance to its subsidiary American Water Heater Co. (American). The company decided to cover American’s prospective liability exposures with its existing insurance programs and all product
liability claims for events which occurred prior to July 1, 2006 will be financed by the captive. The reinsurance company restricts the amount of capital which must be maintained by the captive and this restricted amount is $17.2 million and
$26.3 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $17.2 million and $26.3 million of restricted money market instruments are included in other assets on the company’s balance sheet at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. The cost of the money market instruments approximates fair value.

Recent accounting pronouncements.

In May 2009, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASC Sub-topic 855-10 (formerly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 165), “Subsequent Events”. Sub-topic 855-10 addresses the types and
timing of events that should be reported in the financial statements for events that occur between the balance sheet date and the date the financial statements are issued or available to be issued. We reviewed events for possible inclusion in the
financial statements through our filing date of February 26, 2010.

In March 2008, the FASB issued ASC Sub-topic 815-10,
“Derivatives and Hedging”. Sub-topic 815-10 (formerly SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an Amendment of FASB No. 133”), is intended to improve transparency in financial
reporting by requiring enhanced disclosures of an entity’s derivative instruments and hedging activities and their effects on the entity’s financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. ASC 815-10 applies to all derivative
instruments within the scope of SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” (“SFAS 133”). It also applies to non-derivative hedging instruments and all hedged items designated and qualifying
under SFAS 133 and is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. This pronouncement encourages, but does not require,
comparative disclosures for periods prior to its initial adoption. We adopted ASC 815-10 on January 1, 2009. Adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
See Consolidation section of Note 1 for further discussion.

In December 2007, the FASB issued ASC Sub-topic 810-10-65,
“Consolidations”, (formerly SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51”). This pronouncement changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests,
which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This new consolidation method changes the accounting for transactions with minority interest holders and is effective beginning in 2009. We adopted
ASC 810-10-65 on January 1, 2009. Adoption of this statement has impacted our accounting for the SICO transaction as well as the acquisition of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. and has been incorporated in the accompanying financial statements.



1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

In December 2007, the FASB issued ASC Sub-topic 805-10, “Business Combinations”, (formerly
SFAS No. 141(R)). ASC 805-10 requires us to continue to follow prior guidance for certain aspects of business combinations, with additional guidance provided defining the acquirer, recognizing and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the
liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, assets and liabilities arising from contingencies, defining a bargain purchase and recognizing and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase. In addition, certain
transaction costs previously capitalized as part of the purchase price will be expensed as incurred. Also, under ASC 805-10 adjustments associated with changes in tax contingencies that occur after the one year measurement period are recorded as
adjustments to income. This statement is effective for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after December 15, 2008; however, the guidance in
this standard regarding the treatment of income tax contingencies is retrospective to business combinations completed prior to January 1, 2009. We have adopted ASC 805-10 on January 1, 2009 and incorporated the impact of this statement in
the accounting for the SICO transaction and the acquisition of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd.

2.

Acquisitions

In November, 2009, the
company acquired a majority interest in the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co. Ltd. of Hong Kong, with operations based in Shanghai, China. A newly formed company, A. O. Smith (Shanghai) Water Treatment Products Co. Ltd will hold the
assets of the business, which manufactures and supplies reverse osmosis and other water treatment products to the China residential and commercial markets as well as export markets around the world.

The company acquired an 80 percent interest in the business at a total cost of $76.7 million, including fixed future payments of $5.7 million in 2010,
subject to reductions for claims the company may make if there are any breaches of the representations and warranties made by the selling shareholder under the acquisition agreement. As required under ASC 805 the company recorded 100% of the fair
value of the assets and liabilities as of the date of acquisition, with the 20 percent noncontrolling interest recorded in the equity section of the company’s balance sheet. The acquisition value exceeded the fair value of the assets acquired
by $90.6 million, of which $55.4 million was recorded as goodwill and $42.2 million was recorded as intangible assets in the Water Products segment. In addition, $7.0 million of deferred tax liability associated with the intangible assets was
recorded. The company is in the process of finalizing third-party appraisal of property, plant and equipment and valuation of certain intangible assets and, therefore, the allocation of the purchase price is subject to adjustment.

In April, 2009, the company acquired the assets of Applied Energy Recovery Systems Inc., a manufacturer of commercial and residential heat pump water heater
products located in Norcross, Ga. The purchase price for the assets totaled $0.7 million, including a fixed future payment of $0.1 million due in 2010 and contingent future payments totaling $0.2 million due during the period 2010 through 2013 based
on achievement of sales projections. All future payments are subject to reductions for claims the company may make if there are any breaches of the representations and warranties made by the seller under the asset purchase agreement. The purchase
price exceeded the fair value of the assets acquired by $0.5 million which was recorded as goodwill in the Water Products segment.

Both
acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase accounting method, and accordingly, the results of operations are included in the company’s financial statements from the date of acquisition.



3.

Restructuring and Other Charges

Electrical Products Restructuring and Related Charges

In 2007, $13.6 million of expense was recognized for the continuation
of domestic repositioning activities. Included in this full year amount is an asset impairment charge of $10.6 million. The majority of the domestic repositioning charges relate to the closure of the Scottsville, KY and Mebane, NC production
facilities resulting in the consolidation of the hermetic motor assembly operations in Acuna, Mexico and Suzhou, China. The closures were completed in the fourth quarter of 2008.

Additionally, in 2007, Electrical Products recognized $9.2 million of expense (of which $7.5 million is an asset impairment charge), and a $9.9 million tax benefit related to the closure of its Budapest,
Hungary facility. The closure of its Budapest Hungary facility resulted in the remaining operations being transferred to China. The plant closed in the second quarter of 2008.

In 2008, $8.7 million of expense was recognized for severance and asset impairment and moving costs associated with the completion of Electrical Products restructuring programs. Included in this amount
was a nontaxable $2.9 million favorable translation adjustment recognized upon closure of the Budapest, Hungary facility.

In 2009, Electrical
Products recognized 2009 restructuring income of $1.6 million resulting from the sale of its Shenzhen, China electric motor facility, as partially offset by moving costs associated with previous plant closures. The Shenzhen facility was sold to the
Chinese government which exercised eminent domain relative to a road construction project.

The following table presents an analysis of the
company’s Electrical Products restructuring reserve as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in millions):

Other Charges – Tower Automotive, Inc.

The company was the primary lessee on a facility lease in Corydon, Indiana related to a business sold to Tower Automotive, Inc. (Tower) in 1997. The company entered into a sublease arrangement with Tower
in 1997 with the same terms and conditions as the company’s lease. Tower filed for bankruptcy on February 2, 2005 and subsequently notified the company that it would reject the sublease arrangement effective October 1, 2005. In order
to minimize costs, the company purchased the Corydon facility for $4.5 million on October 11, 2005. The company recognized $0.5 million of expense in both 2008 and 2007 related to facility maintenance and the company’s estimate of its
ultimate net loss upon disposition of this facility. On March 26, 2009, the company sold the Corydon facility for $2.0 million which resulted in a $0.9 million loss that was recognized at the time of the sale.



3.    Restructuring and Other Charges (continued)

Other Charges – Previously Owned Businesses

The company recognized $0.4 million and $1.4 million of expense in 2009 and 2007, respectively, associated with retained liabilities of previously owned
businesses which were sold by the company between 1997 – 2001. The majority of the $0.4 million recognized in 2009 is related to ongoing environmental liabilities. The majority of the $1.4 million expense in 2007 was related to certain costs
associated with previously owned real estate.

4.    Statement of Cash Flows

Supplemental cash flow information is as follows:

5.    Inventories

6.    Property, Plant and Equipment



7.

Goodwill

Changes in the carrying amount
of goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, consisted of the following:

The company concluded that no impairment existed at the time of the annual impairment tests which were performed in the
fourth quarters of 2009, 2008 and 2007. The two reporting units used to test goodwill for impairment are listed above.

8.

Debt and Lease Commitments

The company has a $425 million multi-year multi-currency revolving
credit agreement with a group of eight banks, which expires on February 17, 2011. The facility has an accordion provision which allows it to be increased up to $500 million if certain conditions (including lender approval) are satisfied.
Borrowings under the company’s bank credit lines and commercial paper borrowings are supported by the revolving credit agreement. As a result of the long-term nature of this facility, the commercial paper and credit line borrowings are
classified as long-term debt at December 31, 2009 and 2008. At its option, the company maintains either cash balances or pays fees for bank credit and services.

Scheduled maturities of long-term debt within each of the five years subsequent to December 31, 2009, are as follows: 2010—$21.1; 2011-$135.3; 2012-$18.6; 2013-$18.6; 2014-$14.3 million.



8.

Debt and Lease Commitments (continued)

Future minimum payments under non-cancelable operating leases relating mostly to office, manufacturing
and warehouse facilities total $53.2 million and are due as follows: 2010 -$15.4; 2011-$9.6; 2012-$6.2; 2013-$4.6; 2014-$4.1, and thereafter - $13.3 million. Rent expense, including payments under operating leases, was $23.8, $25.0 and $26.6 million
in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Interest paid by the company was $11.9, $19.9 and $27.7 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

9.

Redeemable Stock

SICO had an agreement,
which was terminated in 2009, with a stockholder to redeem common stock tendered by the estate of the stockholder, when deceased, sufficient to provide funds for estate taxes and expenses. The redemption price was based on the valuation used for
federal estate tax purposes and could be satisfied in either cash or an equivalent amount of A. O. Smith Common Stock based on the market value at the date of redemption. The redemption agreement included a provision whereby SICO was not obligated
to make a redemption if it would cause a violation of any provision of the company’s credit agreements or term loans. A debt agreement in place through October 30, 2008 included a covenant that limited SICO’s cumulative redemptions to
$0.2 million.

At December 31, 2008, the aggregate number of outstanding shares covered by the redemption agreement was 167,173. In
accordance with EITF Topic D-98, “Classification and Measurement of Redeemable Securities”, the redeemable Common Stock was recorded outside of stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2008 based on the closing stock price of
SICO’s Common Stock. The amount redeemable at December 31, 2007 was deemed immaterial to the consolidation financial statements.

10.

Stockholders’ Equity

The
stockholders’ equity presented in the consolidated financial statements has been impacted by the accounting treatment of the company’s transaction with SICO which closed on April 22, 2009 and is discussed in more detail in Note 1 to
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The primary impact on stockholders’ equity is that the accounting rules require the presentation of SICO’s stockholders’ equity prior to the transaction. Subsequent to the transaction,
A. O. Smith Corporation stockholders’ equity activity is presented.

SICO’s authorized capital consisted of
10 million shares of Common Stock $.10 par value.

The Class A Common Stock and Common Stock presented for 2008 and 2007 reflect a
stock split such that SICO Common Stock is converted into its controlling interest in A. O. Smith Corporation. The adjustment converts SICO Common Stock into shares of A. O. Smith Class A Common Stock and A. O. Smith Common Stock
that SICO owns as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.

The company’s authorized capital consists of 3 million shares of Preferred
Stock $1 par value, 14 million shares of Class A Common Stock $5 par value, and 60 million shares of Common Stock $1 par value. The Common Stock has equal dividend rights with Class A Common Stock and is entitled, as a class, to
elect one-third of the Board of Directors and has 1/10th vote per share on all other matters. Class A Common Stock is convertible to Common Stock on a one for one basis.

During 2009, 2,910,563 shares of Class A Common Stock were converted into Common Stock. Regular dividends paid on the A. O. Smith Corporation Class A Common Stock and Common Stock
amounted to $.77, $.74 and $.70 per share in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

In February 2007, the company’s Board of Directors
authorized the purchase of up to 1,000,000 shares of its outstanding Common Stock. As of December 31, 2007, the company has completed this program at a total cost of $36.6 million. In December 2007, the company’s Board of Directors
authorized the purchase of an additional 1,000,000 shares of its outstanding Common Stock. No shares were purchased in 2009 or 2008.

At
December 31, 2009, 32,595 and 2,027,261 shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, respectively, were held as treasury stock.



10.

Stockholders’ Equity (continued)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss is as follows:

11.

Stock Based Compensation

The company
adopted the A. O. Smith Combined Incentive Compensation Plan (the “plan”) effective January 1, 2007. The plan is a continuation of the A. O. Smith Combined Executive Incentive Compensation Plan which was originally approved by
shareholders in 2002. At the company’s annual meeting of stockholders on April 14, 2009, an amendment to the plan was approved to increase the authorized shares of Common Stock under the plan by 1,250,000. The number of shares available
for granting of options or share units at December 31, 2009, was 1,669,705. Upon stock option exercise, restricted stock grant, or share unit vesting, shares are issued from Treasury stock.

Total stock based compensation cost recognized in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $5.4, $5.0 and $4.6 million, respectively.

Stock options

The stock options granted in
2009, 2008 and 2007 have a three year pro rata vesting from the date of grant. Stock options are issued at exercise prices equal to the fair value of Common Stock on the date of grant. For active employees, all options granted in 2009, 2008 and 2007
expire ten years after date of grant. Stock option compensation recognized in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2.4, $1.9 and $1.7 million, respectively. Included in the stock option expense recognized in 2009, 2008 and 2007 is expense associated with the
accelerated vesting of stock option awards for certain employees who either are retirement eligible or become retirement eligible during the vesting period.

Changes in option shares, all of which are Common Stock, were as follows:



11.

Stock Based Compensation (continued)

The aggregate intrinsic value for the outstanding and exercisable options as of December 31, 2009
is $14.4 million and $8.3 million, respectively. The average remaining contractual life for outstanding and exercisable options is 7 years and 5 years, respectively.

The following table summarizes weighted-average information by range of exercise prices for stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2009:

The weighted-average fair value per option at the date of grant during 2009, 2008 and 2007, using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, was $8.21, $11.59 and $14.43, respectively. Assumptions were as follows:

The expected life is based on
historical exercise behavior and the projected exercise of unexercised stock options. The risk free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the date of grant for the respective expected life of the option. The expected
dividend yield is based on the expected annual dividends divided by the grant date market value of our common stock. The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our common stock.

Restricted stock and share units

Participants may also be awarded shares of restricted stock or share units under the plan. The company granted 106,534, 144,008 and 68,600 share units under the plan in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in the 2008 grant are share
units granted on April 30, 2008 which are subject to performance conditions and which will vest on December 31, 2010. The ultimate number of share units that will vest will range from zero to 96,000 based on the average of the
company’s annual return on equity for the eleven quarters ending December 31, 2010. Compensation expense will be recognized ratably over the vesting period as long as achievement of the performance conditions is considered probable.

The restricted stock and share units were valued at $3.0, $4.9 and $2.7 million at the date of issuance in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively,
and will be recognized as compensation expense ratably over the three-year vesting period. Compensation expense of $3.3, $3.1 and $2.9 million was recognized in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in share based compensation is expense
associated with the accelerated vesting of share unit awards for certain employees who either are retirement eligible or become retirement eligible during the vesting period.



11.

Stock Based Compensation (continued)

A summary of restricted stock and share unit activity under the plan is as follows:

Total compensation expense for restricted stock and share units not yet recognized is $3.4 million at
December 31, 2009. The weighted average period over which the expense is expected to be recognized is one year.

12.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits

The company provides retirement benefits for all United States employees including benefits for employees of previously owned businesses which were earned up to the date of sale. The company also has several foreign pension plans, none of
which are material to the company’s financial position.

The company has a defined contribution profit sharing and retirement plan
covering the majority of its salaried nonunion employees which provides for annual company contributions of 35 percent to 140 percent of qualifying contributions made by participating employees. The amount of the company’s contributions in
excess of 35 percent is dependent upon the company’s profitability. The company also has defined contribution plans for certain hourly employees which provide for matching company contributions.

The company also has a defined benefit plan for salaried employees and its non-union hourly workforce. In the fourth quarter, the company announced
employees hired after Jan. 1, 2010, will not participate in the defined benefit plan, and benefit accruals for current salaried and non-union hourly employees will stop at the end of 2014. This change resulted in a plan curtailment and reduced the
plan’s liability by $12.3 million. No curtailment gain was recognized because the reduction in liability was offset by existing unrecognized losses. An additional company contribution will be made to the defined contribution plan in lieu of
participation in a defined benefit plan. The company also has defined benefit and contribution plans for certain union hourly employees.

The
company has unfunded defined-benefit post-retirement plans covering certain hourly and salaried employees that provide medical and life insurance benefits from retirement to age 65. Certain hourly employees retiring after January 1, 1996, are
subject to a maximum annual benefit and salaried employees hired after December 31, 1993, are not eligible for post-retirement medical benefits.

On December 31, 2006, the company adopted ASC 715, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (formerly SFAS 158). ASC 715 requires that the company recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of its defined benefit and retiree medical
plans as an asset or liability in the balance sheet with changes in the funded status recognized through comprehensive income in the year in which they occur. The impact of adoption was a one time before tax charge to accumulated other comprehensive
loss of $28.3 million.



12.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits (continued)

Obligations and Funded Status

Pension and Post-Retirement Disclosure Information Under ASC 715

The following tables
present the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status for domestic pension and post-retirement plans and the components of net periodic benefit costs.

*

In addition the company has recorded a liability for a foreign pension plan of $0.1 million and $0.3 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively and
an accumulated other comprehensive loss of $0.5 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008.



12.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits (continued)

The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost for the pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other
comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost during 2010 are $17.5 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The estimated net actuarial loss and prior year service cost for the post-retirement benefit plans that will be amortized from
accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost during 2010 are each less than $0.3 million. As permitted under ASC 715, (formerly FASB Statement No. 87 and paragraph 53 of Statement No. 106), the amortization of any
prior service cost is determined using a straight-line amortization of the cost over the average remaining service period of employees expected to receive benefits under the Plan.

The 2009 and 2008 after tax adjustments for additional minimum pension liability resulted in other comprehensive gain (loss) of $(6.7) million and $(145.0) million, respectively.

Assumptions

Actuarial assumptions used to
determine benefit obligations at December 31 are as follows:

Actuarial assumptions used to
determine net periodic benefit cost for the year ended December 31 are as follows:



12.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits (continued)

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption, the company evaluated its pension
plan’s target and actual asset allocation and historical long-term rates of return of equity and bond indices. The company also considered its pension plan’s historical 10-year and 25-year compounded annualized returns of 3.6 percent and
10.7 percent, respectively.

Assumed health care cost trend rates

Assumed health care cost trend rates as of December 31 are as follows:



Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year

10.00%

10.00%

Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate)

5.00%

5.00%

Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate



A one-percentage-point change in the
assumed health care cost trend rates would not result in a material impact on the company’s consolidated financial statements.

Plan
Assets

The company’s pension plan weighted asset allocations as of December 31 by asset category are as follows:

The following table presents the fair value measurement of plan assets as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in millions)



12.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits (continued)

The following table presents a reconciliation of the fair value measurements using significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3) as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in millions):

The company’s investment policies employ an approach whereby a
diversified blend of equity and bond investments is used to maximize the long–term return of plan assets for a prudent level of risk. Equity investments are diversified across domestic and non–domestic stocks, as well as growth, value, and
small to large capitalizations. Bond investments include corporate and government issues, with short–, mid– and long–term maturities, with a focus on investment grade when purchased. The company’s target allocation to equity
managers is between 60 and 70 percent with the remainder allocated primarily to bonds and a small allocation to private equity managers. Investment and market risks are measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through regular investment portfolio
reviews, annual liability measurements and periodic asset/liability studies.

The company’s actual asset allocations are in line with
target allocations. The company regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate.

There were 32,393 shares of the company’s Class A Common Stock and 4,137 shares of Common Stock included in plan assets at December 31, 2009. The total market value of these shares at
December 31, 2009 is $1.6 million. There is no company stock included in plan assets at December 31, 2008.

Cash Flows

In 2009, the company made contributions of $50.8 million and is not required to make a contribution in 2010. However, the company is
anticipating making a contribution in 2010 in the range of $25.0 million to $30.0 million.



12.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits (continued)

Estimated Future Payments

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:

13.

Income Taxes

The components of the
provision for income taxes from continuing operations consisted of the following:

Total taxes paid by the company amounted to $5.6, $15.7, and $14.1 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in
the 2007 taxes paid are $4.2 million net tax payments for the companies acquired in 2006 relating to periods before the acquisition.



13.

Income Taxes (continued)

No provision for U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding taxes has been made on the undistributed
earnings of foreign subsidiaries as such earnings are considered to be permanently invested. At December 31, 2009, the undistributed earnings amounted to $314.2 million. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability on the
undistributed earnings is not practicable. In addition, no provision or benefits for U.S. income taxes have been made on foreign currency translation gains or losses.

The tax effects of temporary differences of assets and liabilities between income tax and financial reporting are as follows:

These deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified in the
balance sheet as current or long-term based on the balance sheet classification of the related assets and liabilities as follows:

The company has foreign net operating loss carryovers with tax
benefits of $4.5 million of which $3.4 million have an unlimited carryover period and $0.6 million and $0.5 million expire in 2016 and 2017, respectively. Based on future realizability, a valuation allowance of $4.5 million has been established
against the foreign net operating loss carryover tax benefits.

The company has a $6.7 million charitable contribution carryover of which $4.8
million expire in 2013 and $1.8 million expire in 2014. The company also has $0.7 million research tax credit carryovers that expire in 2029 and an alternative minimum tax credit carryover of $0.4 million that does not expire. The company also has
state and local net operating loss carryovers having a tax value of $8.2 million and state and local tax credit carryovers of $1.0 million. These carryovers expire between 2010 and 2029. No valuation allowance has been established against the
charitable contribution carryover. A $0.4 million valuation allowance has been established against the state and local carryover tax benefits.

The valuation allowance increased by $1.0 million for 2009 consisting of a $0.6 million increase for current year tax benefit of foreign loss carryovers and $0.4 million valuation allowance for state and local tax loss carryovers expiring
in 2010—2013.



13.

Income Taxes (continued)

The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. There was no cumulative effect of
adoption recorded to retained earnings. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized benefits is as follows:

The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is $3.9 million.
The company recognizes potential interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of tax expense. At January 1, 2008 there was $0.5 million of interest and penalties accrued. There was no net change to the interest and
penalty accrual during 2009. It is anticipated there will be a $1.5 million decrease in total amount of unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months. The company’s U.S. federal tax returns for 2007-2009 are subject to audit. The company is
subject to state and local audits for tax years 2004-2009. The company is subject to non-U.S. income tax examinations for years 2002-2009.

14.

Commitments and Contingencies

The
company is a potentially responsible party in twelve judicial and administrative proceedings initiated on behalf of various state and federal regulatory agencies seeking to clean up sites which have been environmentally impacted and to recover costs
they have incurred or will incur as to the sites.

The company has established reserves for the sites and insurance proceeds and potential
recovery from third parties are available to cover a portion of the company’s potential liability. The company believes that any environmental claims for these sites in excess of reserves, insurance proceeds and indemnified amounts will not
have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.

The company is subject to various claims and pending lawsuits for
product liability and other matters arising out of the conduct of the company’s business. With respect to product liability claims, the company has self-insured a portion of its product liability loss exposure for many years. The company has
established reserves which it believes are adequate to cover incurred claims. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the company had $125 million of product liability insurance for individual losses in excess of $5 million. The company
periodically reevaluates its exposure on claims and lawsuits and makes adjustments to its reserves as appropriate. The company believes, based on current knowledge, consultation with counsel, adequate reserves and insurance coverage, that the
outcome of such claims and lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

On June 30, 2009, the company commenced legal action in Tennessee State Court, located in Johnson City, Washington County, against a supplier seeking recovery of increased costs and damages that the
company incurred due to an issue with a component part that they supplied that affects certain products that the company sold. The company has set up a portion of these costs as a receivable, and believes it will likely recover these costs and
damages in the litigation.

15.

Operations by Segment

The company has
two reportable segments: Water Products and Electrical Products. The Water Products segment manufactures residential and commercial gas and electric water heaters used in a wide range of applications including hotels, laundries, car washes,
factories and large institutions. In addition, the Water Products segment manufactures copper tube boilers used in large-volume hot water and hydronic heating applications. The Electrical Products segment manufactures fractional horsepower
alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC) motors used in fans and blowers in furnaces, air conditioners and ventilating systems; as well as in other consumer products such as home appliances and pumps for swimming pools, hot tubs and spas. In
addition, the Electrical Products segment manufactures hermetic motors which are sold worldwide to manufacturers of compressors used in air conditioning and refrigeration systems.



15.

Operations by Segment (continued)

The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in the “Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies” outlined in Note 1. Operating earnings, defined by the company as earnings before interest, taxes, general corporate and corporate research and development expenses, is used to measure the performance of the
segments and allocate resources.

Sales to a major customer within the Water Products segment totaled $246.7 and $254.1 million in 2009 and 2008,
respectively which is 12% and 11% of the company’s net sales, respectively. Water Products 2009 and 2008 operating earnings includes an equity loss in joint venture of $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively.

Assets, depreciation and capital expenditures by segment

The majority of corporate assets consists of cash and cash equivalents
and deferred income taxes.



15.

Operations by Segment (continued)

Net sales and long-lived assets by geographic location

The following data by geographic area includes net sales based on product shipment destination and long-lived assets based on physical location. Long-lived
assets include net property, plant and equipment and other long-term assets, other intangibles and long-lived assets of previously owned businesses.

16.

Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

(1)

The data presented above for the first quarter of 2009 and 2008 includes the impact of the company’s merger transaction with SICO which closed on
April 22, 2009 and is discussed further in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The above data differs from the presentation in the company’s Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009 which reflected
diluted earnings per share of $0.29 and $0.72 for the first quarters of 2009 and 2008, respectively.



16.

Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) (continued)

Net earnings per share are computed separately for each period and, therefore, the sum of such quarterly
per share amounts may differ from the total for the year. 2009 and 2008 fourth quarter net earnings included a $6.0 million and $2.4 million LIFO benefit, net of tax, respectively.

ITEM 9 – CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A – CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have
evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Exchange Act”)) as of the end of the period
covered by this report. Based on such evaluations, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in
recording, processing, summarizing, and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act, and that information is accumulated and communicated to the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely discussions regarding required disclosure.

Management
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has
evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this
evaluation, the company’s management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2009, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Ernst and Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2009 as stated in their report which is included herein.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There has not been any change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31,
2009, that has materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B – OTHER INFORMATION

None



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

A.O.
Smith Corporation

We have audited A.O. Smith Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based
on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). A.O. Smith Corporation’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our
audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, A.O. Smith Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of A.O. Smith Corporation as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive earnings, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 and our report dated February 26, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Ernst & Young LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

February 26, 2010



PART III

ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information included under the headings “Election of Directors” and “Board Committees” in the company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
(to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the registrant’s fiscal year) is incorporated herein by reference. The information required regarding Executive Officers of the
company is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Executive Officers of the Company.”

The company
has a separately designated Audit Committee on which Gene C. Wulf, Gloster B. Current, Jr., Mark D. Smith and Idelle K. Wolf serve, with Mr. Wulf, as Chairperson. All members are independent under applicable SEC and NYSE rules; Ms. Wolf
and Mr. Wulf are “audit committee financial experts” in accordance with SEC rules.

The company has adopted a Financial Code of
Ethics applicable to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. As a best practice, this code has been executed by all other company officers and key financial and accounting personnel as well. In
addition, the company has adopted a general code of business conduct for its directors, officers and all employees, which is known as the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles. The Financial Code of Ethics, the A. O. Smith Guiding
Principles and other company corporate governance matters are available on the company’s website at

www.aosmith.com

. The company is not including the information contained on its website as a part of or incorporating it by reference
into, this Form 10-K. The company intends to disclose on this website any amendments to, or waivers from, the Financial Code of Ethics or the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles that are required to be disclosed pursuant to SEC rules. There have been no
waivers of the Financial Code of Ethics or the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles. Stockholders may obtain copies of any of these corporate governance documents free of charge by writing to the Corporate Secretary at the address on the cover page of
this Form 10-K.

The information included under the heading “Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act” in
the company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the registrant’s fiscal year) is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information included under the headings “Executive Compensation,” "Director Compensation," "Report of the Personnel and Compensation
Committee" and "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" in the company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A
within 120 days after the end of the registrant’s fiscal year) is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information included under the headings “Principal Stockholders” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management” in the company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2010
Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the registrant’s fiscal year) is incorporated herein by reference.



Equity Compensation Plan Information

The following table provides information about the company’s equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2009.

ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS,
RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information included under the headings “Director Independence and Financial
Literacy”, “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Procedure for Review of Related Party Transactions” in the company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
(to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the registrant’s fiscal year) is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14 - PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The
information included under the heading “Report of the Audit Committee” in the company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation
14A within 120 days after the end of the registrant’s fiscal year) required by this Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15 - EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on behalf of the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below as of February 26, 2010 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



INDEX TO EXHIBITS



INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)



A. O. SMITH CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In millions)

Years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007


Provision based
upon estimated collection.


Uncollectible
amounts/expenditures or adjustments charged against the reserve.

62