ITEM 1.Business

Overview

Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) develops, markets and supports solutions that help companies design products,
manage product information and improve their product development processes. Our software solutions help customers increase innovation, improve product quality, decrease time to market, and reduce product development costs.

We offer solutions in the product lifecycle management, or PLM, market (product data management, collaboration and related solutions) and
the CAx market (computer-aided design, manufacturing and engineering (CAD, CAM and CAE) solutions). Our software solutions provide our customers with an integral product development system that enables them to create digital product content,
collaborate with others in the product development process, control product content, automate product development processes, configure products and product content, and communicate product information to people and systems across the extended
enterprise and design chain.

We recently acquired MKS Inc., a global application lifecycle management
(ALM) technology leader. MKS’s flagship product, MKS Integrity®, coordinates and manages all activities and
artifacts associated with developing software intensive products (including requirements, models, code and test) and ensuring comprehensive lifecycle traceability. By unifying MKS’s ALM solutions with PTC’s industry-leading PLM solutions,
PTC will enable manufacturers to better align the management of a product’s hardware components and related software.

We
generate revenue through the sale of:



•software licenses,



•maintenance services, which include technical support and software updates, and



•consulting and training services, which include implementation services for our software.

The PLM, ALM and the CAx markets we serve present different growth opportunities for us. We believe the market among large businesses for
PLM and ALM solutions (which we refer to as our “Enterprise Solutions”) presents the greatest opportunity for revenue growth for us and that revenue from this market will constitute an increasingly greater proportion of our revenue over
time. We believe that the market for our CAx solutions (which we refer to as our “Desktop Solutions”) among small- and medium-size businesses also provides an opportunity for future growth. Conversely, the market for our CAx solutions
among large businesses is highly penetrated and presents a lower growth opportunity for us. However, we believe that our Creo product suite, which we released in June 2011, has created an opportunity for us in this market to grow at rates higher
than we’ve experienced in recent years.

Our solutions are complemented by our experienced services and technical support
organizations which provide consulting, implementation and training support services to customers worldwide. Resellers supplement







this direct sales force to provide greater geographic and small- and medium-size account coverage, while other strategic partners provide product and/or service offerings that complement our
solutions.

Our Principal Products and Services

We report our revenue by product groupings—Desktop and Enterprise—and by distribution channel—Direct and Indirect.

Enterprise revenue includes our PLM solutions, primarily:
Windchill®(including Relex®and InSightTM, now branded Windchill Quality Solutions and Windchill Product Analytics Solutions, respectively), Arbortext®enterprise products, Creo
ViewTM(formerly ProductView®), and Integrity®. Desktop revenue includes our CAx Solutions: Creo, including Creo ParametricTM(formerly Pro/ENGINEER®) and Creo Elements/DirectTM(formerly CoCreate®), Arbortext authoring
products, and Mathcad®. Direct revenue includes sales made primarily by our direct sales force to large
businesses. Indirect revenue includes sales by our reseller channel, primarily to small- and medium-size businesses, as well as revenue from other accounts that we have classified as indirect.

Enterprise Solutions

Our Enterprise Solutions addresses common challenges that companies, and in particular manufacturing companies, face in their product
development processes, including managing data over the life of the product, communication and collaboration with the extended enterprise, portfolio management, change management, regulatory compliance, technical and marketing documentation,
heterogeneity of systems, and product service and maintenance requirements. Our principal Enterprise Solutions are described below.

Windchill®solutions are a family of sophisticated,
internet-based content and process management solutions for managing complex data and relationships, processes and publications, including:



•Collaboration solutions that connect a company’s employees, partners, suppliers and customers through internet-based workspaces;



•Product data management and process solutions that manage all product-related content and improve product development processes;



•Product analytics solutions that optimize product performance across multiple dimensions; and



•Quality solutions that manage product performance, reliability and safety.

Arbortext®Enterprise Solutions enable our customers to manage complex information assets that enhance their customer support and service center information delivery processes.
Optimized for managing XML-based structured content and 2D and 3D technical illustrations created using our Arbortext authoring products, these solutions support collaboration by geographically dispersed teams and manage critical processes such as
configuration management and the release of multilingual and multichannel technical documentation. The solutions consist of a Windchill-based content and configuration management system that manages the XML components, illustrations and related
localized content components and a dynamic publishing server that produces output automatically in the format and language required by the user.

We are also developing a new generation of solutions that leverage Arbortext capabilities for creating technical information. These solutions targeted for the service lifecycle management (SLM)
market are designed to support the growing needs of service organizations within our core manufacturing customers by ensuring that updates in product development are reflected in real-time service and spare parts information throughout the
product’s service lifecycle. These solutions will include capabilities for delivering service content based on Windchill and Creo software previously released with Windchill 10.0 and Creo 1.0 (Windchill Service Information Manager,
Windchill Service Parts and Creo Illustrate). The solutions will also include capabilities for warranty management and product support processes, which will be based on the applications we acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 with our
acquisition of 4C Solutions, Inc.







Creo View™(formerly ProductView™)solutions enable
enterprise-wide visualization, verification, annotation and automated comparison of a wide variety of product development data formats, including MCAD (2D and 3D), ECAD, and documents. These solutions provide lightweight access to product designs
and related data without requiring the original authoring tool. Formerly known as ProductView, Creo View was renamed in connection with the product launch of our new product, Creo, described below.

Integrity®coordinates and manages all activities and artifacts associated with developing software-intensive products (including requirements, models, code and test) and with
ensuring comprehensive lifecycle traceability. The addition of Integrity to PTC’s PLM solutions is intended to reshape the way manufacturers integrate product hardware and software, and to enable them to improve product quality, accelerate
time-to-market, and reduce risk and total service costs.

Desktop Solutions

Our Desktop Solutions include our integrated Creo software suite (excluding Creo View), our Mathcad®engineering calculations software and our Arbortext document authoring tools.

We launched the Creo product family in June 2011. Creo was developed to remedy problems that were not being addressed by mechanical CAD
tools: usability, interoperability, assembly management and technology bias. Leveraging technology assets unique to PTC, Creo is a scalable suite of interoperable, open, and easy-to-use product design applications that provide the right-size
solution for each participant in the design process. Creo offers upwards compatibility with other PTC products. In addition to Creo Parametric (described below), several standalone applications deliver new capabilities for 2D and 3D CAD
modeling, analysis and visualization. Creo also provides an unprecedented level of interoperability to ensure that data can be easily shared between teams both internally and externally.

Our principal Creo products and our other principal Desktop Solutions are described below.

Creo Parametric (formerly Pro/ENGINEER®)is a family of three-dimensional product design solutions based on a parametric, feature-based solid modeler that enables changes made during the design
process to be associatively updated throughout the design. Designers can use Creo Parametric for detailed design (CAD), manufacturing/production (CAM), and simulation/analysis (CAE), as well as for exchanging CAD data with a multitude of sources and
in varied standard formats, allowing them to create more innovative, differentiated and functional products quickly and easily. Creo Parametric can improve product quality and reduce time to market by enabling users to evaluate multiple design
alternatives and to share data with bi-directional associativity.

Creo Elements/Direct (formerly
CoCreate®)is a family of explicit CAD and collaboration software that enables customers pursuing a
lightweight and flexible design strategy to meet short design cycles and to create product designs quickly. Creo Elements/Direct’s explicit modeling approach enables product development teams to create and modify 3D product designs quickly.
This fast and lightweight design approach gives designers flexibility to make changes to a product design late in the development process and the ability to work with multi-source CAD data. Creo Elements/Direct enables users to reduce design cycle
time, improve workgroup collaboration through an integrated data management system and decrease product development costs.

Mathcad®is an engineering calculation software solution
that combines a computational engine, accessed through conventional math notation, with a full-featured word processor and graphing tools. Mathcad allows customers to develop and document the engineering calculations related to their designs and
predict the behavior of a Creo model, which can then be validated using our Creo Parametric CAE solutions. This approach can help our customers speed time to market by significantly reducing the number of iterations necessary to complete a design.
In addition, when combined with our Windchill solutions, the valuable intellectual property captured in Mathcad can be managed and shared securely with others for reuse and for regulatory compliance.







Arbortextauthoring products Arbortext Editor™ and Arbortext
IsoDraw®are designed to help customers improve documentation accuracy, speed time to market, reduce translation
requirements and lower publishing costs.

Maintenance Services

We offer maintenance support plans for our software products. Participating customers receive new releases and updates that we make generally available to our maintenance services customers, and also have
direct access to our global technical support team of certified engineers for issue resolution. We also provide self-service support tools that allow our customers access to extensive technical support information.

Consulting and Training Services

We offer consulting, implementation and training services through our Global Services Organization, with nearly 1,500 professionals worldwide, as well as through third-party resellers and other strategic
partners. Our services create value by helping customers improve product development performance through technology enabled process improvement.

Geographic and Segment Information

We have two reportable segments:
Software Products, which includes license and related maintenance services revenue for all our products except training-related products, and Services, which includes consulting, implementation, training and computer-based training products,
including related maintenance services. Financial information about our international and domestic operations, including by segment, may be found in Note N of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of this Annual Report, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

We invest heavily in research and development on an ongoing basis to improve the quality and expand the functionality of our products.
Approximately one third of our employees are dedicated to research and development initiatives, conducted primarily in the United States, Israel and India.

Our research and development expenses were $211.4 million in 2011, $201.6 million in 2010 and $188.5 million in 2009. Additional information about our research and development expenditures may be found in
Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Costs and Expenses—Research and Development” of this Annual Report.

Sales and Marketing

We derive most of our revenue from products and services sold directly by our sales force to end-user customers. We also sell products and services through third-party resellers and other strategic
partners. Our sales force focuses on large accounts, while our reseller channel provides a cost-effective means of covering the small- and medium-size business market. Our strategic services partners provide product and/or service offerings that
complement our offerings.

Competition

We compete primarily in the product development market, including the PLM, ALM and CAx markets. We compete with a number of companies that offer solutions that address one or more specific functional
areas covered by our solutions, including: Dassault Systemes SA and Siemens AG for traditional CAx solutions, PLM







solutions, manufacturing planning solutions and visualization and digital mock-up solutions; Oracle Corporation and SAP AG for PLM solutions; and IBM Corporation for ALM solutions. We believe our
PLM solutions are more specifically targeted toward the product development processes within manufacturing companies and offer broader and deeper functionality for those processes than ERP-based solutions.

We also compete in the CAx market with design products such as Autodesk, Inc.’s Inventor, Siemens AG’s Solid Edge and Dassault
Systemes SA’s SolidWorks for sales to smaller manufacturing customers.

Proprietary Rights

Our software products and related technical know-how, along with our trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos,
are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection. The nature and extent of such legal protection depends in part on
the type of intellectual property right and the relevant jurisdiction. In the U.S., we are generally able to maintain our trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use and to maintain our patents for up to 20 years from the
earliest effective filing date. We also use license management and other anti-piracy technology measures, as well as contractual restrictions, to curtail the unauthorized use and distribution of our products.

Our proprietary rights are subject to risks and uncertainties described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below. You should
read that discussion, which is incorporated into this section by reference.

Backlog

We generally ship our products within 30 days after receipt of a customer order. A high percentage of our license revenue
historically has been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter, and this revenue tends to be concentrated in the latter part of that month. Accordingly, orders may exist at the end of a quarter that have not been shipped and not been
recognized as revenue. We do not believe that our backlog at any particular point in time is indicative of future sales levels.

Employees

As of September 30, 2011, we had 6,122 employees, including 2,060 in product development; 1,957 in customer support, training
and consulting; 1,508 in sales and marketing; and 597 in general and administration and product distribution. Of these employees, 2,191 were located in the United States and 3,931 were located outside the United States.

Website Access to Reports and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

We make available free of charge on our website at www.ptc.com the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after
electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our Current Reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings and Section 16 trading reports on SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 also are available on our website. The reference to our website is not
intended to incorporate information on our website into this Annual Report by reference.

Our Code of Ethics for Senior
Executive Officers is also available on our website. Additional information about this code and amendments and waivers thereto can be found below in Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.







Executive Officers

Information about our executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Corporate Information

PTC was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1985 and is headquartered in Needham, Massachusetts.



