ITEM 1.Business

PTC Inc. develops and delivers technology solutions, comprised of software and services, that transform the way our customers create, operate and service their products for a smart, connected world.  Our solutions help our customers in discrete manufacturing organizations optimize the activities within individual business functions, including engineering, software development, supply chain management, manufacturing and service, and coordinate these processes across the enterprise to enable product and service advantage.

Our solutions and software products address the challenges our customers face in the following areas:

Computer-Aided Design (CAD)

Effective and collaborative product design across the globe.

Product Lifecycle Management (PLM)

Efficient and consistent management of product development from concept to retirement across functional processes and distributed teams.

Application Lifecycle Management (ALM)

Management of global software development from concept to delivery.

Service Lifecycle Management (SLM)

Planning and delivery of service, and analysis of product intelligence at the point of service.

Internet of Things (IoT)

Enabling connectivity and development of software applications for smart, connected products.

2014 Business Developments

Acquisitions

Consistent with our vision to help our customers create, operate and service smart, connected products, in 2014 weacquired ThingWorx, Inc. and Axeda Corporation.ThingWorx is a small but highly-innovative creator of an award-winning platform to build and run applications designed to leverage the Internet of Things.  Axeda is a developer of solutions to securely connect machines and sensors to the cloud.  ThingWorx and Axeda are complementary solutions that expand our SLM and IoT portfolios.  We are excited about the opportunities that may be created as our customers and others develop smart, connected products and otherwise seek to leverage the Internet of Things and we are making significant investments through acquistions and otherwise in this area to pursue these opportunities.

Additionally, in 2014, we acquired Atego Group Limited.Atego developed a Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) solution for safety-critical applications and product line engineering. This technology drives process standardization, allowing distributed teams to collaboratively develop and manage models of complex systems and enhances our ALM and PLM solutions.

Expanded Share Repurchase Authorization and Expanded Credit Facility

Consistent with our intent to increase stockholder value, in August 2014 we announced a capital allocation strategy that over time is expected to return approximately 40% of free cash flow to shareholders while still enabling us to invest in organic and new growth opportunities.  As part of this strategy, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock through September 30, 2017. Under this authorization, we borrowed $125 million under our credit









facility to repurchase shares of our common stock in the fourth quarter of 2014 under an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement.

Additionally, in September 2014, we entered into a new $1.5 billion credit facility with a syndicate of existing and additional lenders consisting of a $500 million term loan and a $1 billion revolving loan facility. The new facility, which replaced our previous $1 billion credit facility, matures on September 15, 2019.

Our Markets

The markets we serve present different growth opportunities for us. We see the biggest opportunity for market growth in our SLM and IoT solutions, followed by Extended PLM, which includes PLM and ALM solutions.  CAD, which is more highly penetrated, likely presents a lower market growth opportunity over time.

Our Principal Products and Services

We generate revenue through the sale of software licenses, support (which includes technical support and software updates when and if available), and services (which include consulting and implementation, training and cloud services). We report revenue by line of business (license, service and support), by geographic region, and by product  (CAD, Extended PLM and SLM & IoT).

CAD

Our CAD products enable users to create conceptual and detailed designs, analyze designs, perform engineering calculations and leverage the information created downsteam utilizing 2D, 3D, parametric and direct modeling.  Our principal CAD products are described below.

PTC Creo®is an interoperable suite of product design software that provides a scalable set of packages for design engineers that are optimized to meet a variety of specialized needs.  PTC Creo provides capabilities for design flexibility, advanced assembly design, piping and cabling design, advanced surfacing, comprehensive virtual prototyping and other essential design functions.

PTC Mathcad®is industry-leading software for solving, analyzing and sharing vital engineering calculations.  PTC Mathcad combines the ease and familiarity of an engineering notebook with the powerful features of a dedicated engineering calculations application.

Extended PLM

Extended PLM includes our PLM and ALM products.

PLM:Our PLM products address common challenges that companies, particularly manufacturing companies, face over the life of the product, from concept to retirement.  These software products help customers manage product configuration information through each stage of the product lifecycle, and communicate and collaborate across the entire enterprise including product development, manufacturing and the supply chain, including sourcing and procurement.

Our principal PLM products are described below.

PTC Windchill®is a production-proven suite of PLM software that offers complete lifecycle intelligence - from design to service. PTC Windchill offers a single repository for all product information.  As such, there is a “single source of truth” for all product-related content such as CAD models, documents, technical illustrations, embedded software, calculations and requirement specifications for all phases of the product lifecycle to help companies streamline enterprise-wide communication and make informed decisions.

Additionally, our PTC Windchill product family includes supply chain management (SCM) solutions that allow manufacturers, distributors and retailers to collaborate across product development, and the supply chain, including sourcing and procurement, to identify an optimal set of parts, materials and suppliers. This functionality provides automated cost modeling and visibility into supply chain risk information to balance cost and quality, and to ensure that products meet compliance requirements and performance targets.

PTC Creo®View™ enables enterprise-wide visualization, verification, annotation and automated comparison of a wide variety of product development data formats, including CAD (2D and 3D), ECAD, and documents. PTC Creo View provides access to designs and related data without requiring the original authoring tool.

ALM:Our ALM products are designed for discrete manufacturers where coordination and collaboration between









software and hardware teams is critical to understand product release readiness, support variant complexity, automate development processes, ensure complete lifecycle traceability and manage change.  Our ALM products enable companies to accelerate innovation of software intensive products.

Our principal ALM product suite is PTC Integrity™ which includes solutions recently added with our acquisition of the Atego business.

PTC Integrityenables users to manage system models, software configurations, test plans and defects. With PTC Integrity, engineering teams can improve productivity and quality, streamline compliance, and gain complete product visibility, ultimately driving more innovative products into the market.

Our Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) solution connects requirements engineering, architecture modeling, physical product definition, and system verification functions. Our solution allows multi-functional teams to work in concert while modeling the interdependencies of mechanical, electrical, and software engineering components.  In doing so, it drives efficiencies and process standardization, allowing distributed teams to collaboratively build digital models of complex systems, while managing system variability and enabling reuse.

SLM & IoT

Our SLM and IoT products help manufacturers and their service providers to improve service efficiency and quality, enable connectivity, and optimize data intelligence.  These include capabilities to support product service and maintenance requirements, service information delivery, service parts planning and optimization, service knowledge management, field service ticketing and scheduling, warranty and contract management, and service analytics. Additionally, with our recent acquisitions of ThingWorx and Axeda, we have expanded our solutions to enable connectivity and the development of applications to gather and analyze product data, which in turn helps our customers design, operate and service smart, connected products.

Our principal SLM & IoT products are described below.

PTC Axeda®which includes the recently acquired Axeda Remote Service Management suite of applications and our core SLM products (primarily PTC Servigistics®and PTC Arbortext®) which are being re-branded under the Axeda name. Our comprehensive software suite integrates service planning, delivery and analysis to optimize service outcomes and enable a systematic approach to service lifecycle management, providing a single view of service throughout the service network for continuous product and service improvement to ensure customer satisfaction.

Our software suite includes tools for manufacturers to create, illustrate, manage and publish technical and service parts information to improve the operation, maintenance, service and upgrade of equipment throughout its lifecycle.  These products are available in stand-alone configurations as well as integrated with PTC Windchill Service Information Manager and PTC Creo Illustrate to deliver dynamic, product-centric service and parts information.

The PTC Axeda Remote Service Management suite of applications enables customers to remotely monitor, manage, service, and control wired and wireless connected products and assets.  These applications reduce service costs and field service visits, improve product uptime and enable new managed service offerings and service sales growth.

ThingWorx®is an IoT platform designed to build and run IoT applications, and enable customers to transform their products and services, innovate, and unlock new business models. ThingWorx reduces the time, cost, and risk required to connect, manage, and develop innovative applications for smart, connected products such as predictive maintenance, system monitoring, and usage-based product design requirements.  Our ThingWorx solutions include tools recently added through our acquisition of Axeda, including cloud-based tools that allow customers to easily and securely connect products and devices to the cloud, and intelligently process, transform, organize and store product and sensor data.

PTC Global Support

We offer global support plans for our software products. Participating customers receive updates that we make generally available to our support customers and also have direct access to our global technical support team of certified engineers for issue resolution. We also provide self-service support tools that allow our customers access to extensive technical support information.

PTC Global Services

We offer consulting, implementation and training services through our Global Services Organization, with over 1,400 professionals worldwide, as well as through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our services create value by helping customers improve product development performance through technology enabled process improvement and multiple deployment paths.









We also offer cloud services, whereby our customers receive secure hosting and 24/7 application management.

Geographic and Segment Information

We have two reportable segments: Software Products, which includes license and related support revenue for all our products except computer-based training products, and Services, which includes consulting, implementation, training, cloud services and license and support revenue for computer-based training products. Financial information about our segments and international and domestic operations may be found in Note NSegment Informationof “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

We invest heavily in research and development to improve the quality and expand the functionality of our products. Approximately one third of our employees are dedicated to research and development initiatives, conducted primarily in the United States, India and Israel.

Our research and development expenses were $226.5 million in 2014, $221.9 million in 2013 and $215.0 million in 2012. Additional information about our research and development expenditures may be found in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations-Costs and Expenses-Research and Development.”

Sales and Marketing

We derive most of our revenue from products and services sold directly by our sales force to end-user customers. Approximately 20% to 25% of our products and services are sold through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our sales force focuses on large accounts, while our reseller channel provides a cost-effective means of covering the small- and medium-size business market. Our strategic services partners provide service offerings to help customers implement our product offerings.  We have a separate sales force for SLM & IoT solutions.

Competition

We compete with technology providers who target discrete manufacturers in the following markets: product lifecycle management (PLM), application lifecycle management (ALM), CAD (computer aided design, manufacturing and engineering) service lifecycle management (SLM) and the Internet of Things (IoT). We compete with a number of companies that offer solutions that address one or more specific functional areas covered by our solutions, including Dassault Systèmes SA and Siemens AG for traditional CAD solutions, PLM solutions, manufacturing planning solutions and visualization and digital mock-up solutions; Oracle Corporation and SAP AG for PLM solutions and SLM solutions; and IBM Corporation and Hewlett Packard for ALM solutions.  We believe our products are more specifically targeted toward the business process challenges of manufacturing companies and offer broader and deeper functionality for those processes than ERP-based solutions.  We also compete in the CAD market with design products such as Autodesk, Inc.'s Inventor, Siemens AG's Solid Edge and Dassault Systemes SA's SolidWorks for sales to smaller manufacturing customers.

Proprietary Rights

Our software products and related technical know-how, along with our trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection. The nature and extent of such legal protection depends in part on the type of intellectual property right and the relevant jurisdiction. In the U.S., we are generally able to maintain our trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use and to maintain our patents for up to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date. We also use license management and other anti-piracy technology measures, as well as contractual restrictions, to curtail the unauthorized use and distribution of our products.

Our proprietary rights are subject to risks and uncertainties described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below. You should read that discussion, which is incorporated into this section by reference.

Backlog

We generally ship our products within 30 days after receipt of a customer order. A high percentage of our license revenue historically has been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter, and this revenue tends to be concentrated in the latter part of that month. Accordingly, orders may exist at the end of a quarter that have not been shipped and not been recognized as revenue. We do not believe that our backlog at any particular point in time is material or indicative of future sales levels.









Employees

As of September 30, 2014, we had 6,444 employees, including 2,156 in product development; 2,109 in customer support, training and consulting; 1,481 in sales and marketing; and 698 in general and administration and product distribution. Of these employees, 2,411 were located in the United States and 4,033 were located outside the United States.

Website Access to Reports and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

We make available free of charge on our website at www.ptc.com the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our Current Reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections     13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings and Section 16 trading reports on SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 also are available on our website. The reference to our website is not intended to incorporate information on our website into this Annual Report by reference.

Our Code of Ethics for Senior Executive Officers is also available on our website. Additional information about this code and amendments and waivers thereto can be found below in Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Executive Officers

Information about our executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Corporate Information

PTC was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1985 and is headquartered in Needham, Massachusetts.





