ITEM 1.Business

Overview

Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) develops software solutions and delivers related services that help companies design products, manage product information and improve their product development and services processes. Our software solutions help customers increase innovation, improve product quality, decrease time to market, reduce product development costs, and optimize their supply chains and the delivery of after-market services.

We offer solutions in the following markets:

•the product lifecycle management (PLM) market (product data management, collaboration and related solutions),

•the CAD market (computer-aided design, manufacturing and engineering (CAD, CAM and CAE) solutions),

•the application lifecycle management (ALM) market (coordination and management of all aspects of global software development),

•the supply chain management (SCM) market (management and optimization of the supply chain), and

•the service lifecycle management (SLM) market (delivery and capture of product intelligence at the point of service).

Our software solutions provide our customers with a product development and services delivery system that enables them to create and control digital product content, automate and collaborate with others in the product development process, configure products and product content, and communicate product information to people and systems across the extended enterprise, design and supply chains and at the point of after-market services delivery.

We acquired Servigistics, Inc. in October 2012 to expand our offerings in the SLM market.  Servigistics developed and sold an innovative suite of SLM solutions that supplements PTC's existing SLM solutions to provide our customers with a broad technological solution to transform their service strategies and operations.

We generate revenue through the sale of:

•software licenses,

•maintenance services, which include technical support and software updates, and

•consulting and training services, which include implementation services for our software.

The markets we serve present different growth opportunities for us. We believe the markets for PLM, ALM, SCM and SLM solutions present the greatest opportunities for revenue growth and that revenue from these markets will constitute an increasingly greater proportion of our revenue over time. We believe that the market for our CAD solutions among small- and medium-size businesses also provides an opportunity for growth. Conversely, the market for our CAD solutions among large businesses is highly penetrated and presents a lower growth opportunity for us. However, we believe that our PTC Creo® product suite, version 2.0 of which was released in Spring 2012, has created an opportunity for us in this market.

Our solutions are complemented by our experienced services and technical support organizations which provide consulting, implementation and training support services to customers worldwide.

Our Principal Products and Services

We report our revenue by product groupings-Desktop and Enterprise-and by distribution channel-Direct and Indirect.

Enterprise revenue includes our PLM solutions (primarily PTC Windchill®, PTC Arbortext®enterprise products and PTC Creo ViewTM(formerly ProductView®)) and PTC Integrity™. Desktop revenue includes our CAD Solutions: PTC Creo, including









PTC Creo ParametricTM(formerly Pro/ENGINEER®) and PTC Creo Elements/Direct®(formerly CoCreate®), PTC Arbortext authoring products, and PTC Mathcad®. Direct revenue includes sales made primarily by our direct sales force to large businesses. Indirect revenue includes sales by our reseller channel, primarily to small- and medium-size businesses, as well as revenue from other accounts that we have classified as indirect.

Enterprise Solutions

Our Enterprise Solutions address common challenges that companies, particularly manufacturing companies, face in their product development and service processes.  These include managing data over the life of the product, communication and collaboration with the extended enterprise, portfolio management, change management, regulatory compliance, technical and marketing documentation, heterogeneity of systems, and product service and maintenance requirements. Our principal Enterprise Solutions are described below.

PTC Windchill®solutions are a family of sophisticated, internet-based content and process management solutions for managing complex data and relationships, processes and publications, including:

•Collaboration solutions that connect a company’s employees, partners, suppliers and customers through internet-based workspaces;

•Product data management and process solutions that manage all product-related content and improve product development processes;

•Product analytics solutions that optimize product performance across multiple dimensions; and

•Quality solutions that manage product performance, reliability and safety.

PTC Arbortext®Enterprise Solutions enable our customers to manage complex information assets that enhance their customer support and service center information delivery processes. These solutions are optimized for managing XML-based structured content and 2D and 3D technical illustrations created using our PTC Arbortext authoring products.  They support collaboration by geographically dispersed teams and manage critical processes such as configuration management and the release of multilingual and multichannel technical documentation. The solutions consist of a PTC Windchill-based content and configuration management system that manages the XML components, illustrations and related localized content components and a dynamic publishing server that produces output automatically in the format and language required by the user.

We are also developing a new generation of solutions that leverage PTC Arbortext capabilities for creating technical information. Targeted for the service lifecycle management (SLM) market, these solutions are designed to support the growing needs of service organizations within our core manufacturing customers by ensuring that updates in product development are reflected in real-time service and spare parts information throughout the product’s service lifecycle. These solutions will include capabilities for delivering service content based on previously released PTC Windchill and PTC Creo software.  The solutions will also include capabilities for warranty management and product support processes, which will be based on the applications we acquired in the fourth quarter of 2011 with our acquisition of 4C Solutions, Inc.

PTC Creo View™(formerly ProductView™)solutions enable enterprise-wide visualization, verification, annotation and automated comparison of a wide variety of product development data formats, including CAD (2D and 3D), ECAD, and documents. These solutions provide lightweight access to product designs and related data without requiring the original authoring tool.

PTC Integrity™coordinates and manages all activities and artifacts associated with developing software-intensive products (including requirements, models, code and test) and with ensuring comprehensive lifecycle traceability. The addition of PTC Integrity to PTC’s PLM solutions is intended to reshape the way manufacturers integrate product hardware and software, and to enable them to improve product quality, accelerate time-to-market, and reduce risk and total service costs.

Desktop Solutions

Our Desktop Solutions include our integrated PTC Creo software suite (excluding PTC Creo View), our PTC Mathcad®engineering calculations software and our PTC Arbortext document authoring tools.

We launched the PTC Creo product suite in June 2011. PTC Creo was developed to remedy problems of usability, interoperability, assembly management and technology bias that were not being well addressed by mechanical CAD tools. Leveraging PTC's unique technology assets, PTC Creo is a scalable suite of interoperable, open, and easy-to-use product design applications that provide the right-size solution for each participant in the design process. PTC Creo offers upwards compatibility with other PTC products. In addition to the capabilities of PTC Creo Parametric (described below), the Creo suite includes standalone applications that deliver new capabilities for 2D and 3D CAD modeling, analysis and visualization. PTC Creo also enables data to be easily shared between teams both internally and externally.









Our principal PTC Creo products and our other principal Desktop Solutions are described below.

PTC Creo Parametric (formerly Pro/ENGINEER®)is a suite of three-dimensional product design solutions based on a parametric, feature-based solid modeler that enables changes made during the design process to be associatively updated throughout the design. Designers can use PTC Creo Parametric for detailed design (CAD), manufacturing/production (CAM), and simulation/analysis (CAE), as well as for exchanging CAD data with a multitude of sources and in varied standard formats. This allows them to create more innovative, differentiated and functional products quickly and easily. PTC Creo Parametric can improve product quality and reduce time to market by enabling users to evaluate multiple design alternatives and to share data with bi-directional associativity.

PTC Creo Elements/Direct (formerly CoCreate®)is a suite of explicit CAD and collaboration software that enables customers pursuing a lightweight and flexible design strategy to meet short design cycles.  The explicit modeling approach of PTC Creo Elements/Direct enables product development teams to create and modify 3D product designs quickly. This fast and lightweight design approach gives designers flexibility to make changes to a product design late in the development process, and the ability to work with multi-source CAD data. PTC Creo Elements/Direct enables users to reduce design cycle time, improve workgroup collaboration through an integrated data management system and reduce product development costs.

PTC Mathcad®is an engineering calculation software solution that combines a computational engine, accessed through conventional math notation, with a full-featured word processor and graphing tools. PTC Mathcad allows customers to develop and document the engineering calculations related to their designs and predict the behavior of a PTC Creo model, which can then be validated using our PTC Creo Parametric CAE solutions. This approach can help our customers speed time to market by significantly reducing the number of iterations necessary to complete a design. In addition, when combined with our PTC Windchill solutions, the valuable intellectual property captured in PTC Mathcad can be managed and shared securely with others for reuse and for regulatory compliance.

PTC Arbortextauthoring products PTC Arbortext Editor™ and PTC Arbortext IsoDraw®are designed to help customers improve documentation accuracy, speed time to market, reduce translation requirements and lower publishing costs.

Maintenance Services

We offer maintenance support plans for our software products. Participating customers receive updates that we make generally available to our maintenance services customers, and also have direct access to our global technical support team of certified engineers for issue resolution. We also provide self-service support tools that allow our customers access to extensive technical support information.

Consulting and Training Services

We offer consulting, implementation and training services through our Global Services Organization, with nearly 1,500 professionals worldwide, as well as through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our services create value by helping customers improve product development performance through technology enabled process improvement.

Geographic and Segment Information

We have two reportable segments: Software Products, which includes license and related maintenance services revenue for all our products except training-related products, and Services, which includes consulting, implementation, training and computer-based training products, including related maintenance services. Financial information about our international and domestic operations, including by segment, may be found in Note N of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

We invest heavily in research and development to improve the quality and expand the functionality of our products. Approximately one third of our employees are dedicated to research and development initiatives, conducted primarily in the United States, Israel and India.

Our research and development expenses were $215.0 million in 2012, $211.4 million in 2011 and $201.6 million in 2010. Additional information about our research and development expenditures may be found in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Costs and Expenses—Research and Development” of this Annual Report.

Sales and Marketing









We derive most of our revenue from products and services sold directly by our sales force to end-user customers. We also sell products and services through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our sales force focuses on large accounts, while our reseller channel provides a cost-effective means of covering the small- and medium-size business market. Our strategic services partners provide product and/or service offerings that complement our offerings.

Competition

We compete in the product development market, including the product lifecycle management (PLM), application lifecycle management (ALM) and CAD (computer aided design, manufacturing and engineering) markets, the supply chain management (SCM) market and the service lifecycle management (SLM) market. We compete with a number of companies that offer solutions that address one or more specific functional areas covered by our solutions, including Dassault Systèmes SA and Siemens AG for traditional CAD solutions, PLM solutions, manufacturing planning solutions and visualization and digital mock-up solutions; Oracle Corporation and SAP AG for PLM solutions, SCM solutions and SLM solutions; and IBM Corporation and Hewlett-Packard Company for ALM solutions.  We believe our PLM solutions are more specifically targeted toward the product development processes within manufacturing companies and offer broader and deeper functionality for those processes than ERP-based solutions.  We also compete in the CAD market with design products such as Autodesk, Inc.'s Inventor, Siemens AG's Solid Edge and Dassault Systemes SA's SolidWorks for sales to smaller manufacturing customers.

Proprietary Rights

Our software products and related technical know-how, along with our trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection. The nature and extent of such legal protection depends in part on the type of intellectual property right and the relevant jurisdiction. In the U.S., we are generally able to maintain our trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use and to maintain our patents for up to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date. We also use license management and other anti-piracy technology measures, as well as contractual restrictions, to curtail the unauthorized use and distribution of our products.

Our proprietary rights are subject to risks and uncertainties described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below. You should read that discussion, which is incorporated into this section by reference.

Backlog

We generally ship our products within 30 days after receipt of a customer order. A high percentage of our license revenue historically has been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter, and this revenue tends to be concentrated in the latter part of that month. Accordingly, orders may exist at the end of a quarter that have not been shipped and not been recognized as revenue. We do not believe that our backlog at any particular point in time is indicative of future sales levels.

Employees

As of September 30, 2012, we had 5,897 employees, including 1,938 in product development; 1,860 in customer support, training and consulting; 1,508 in sales and marketing; and 591 in general and administration and product distribution. Of these employees, 2,119 were located in the United States and 3,778 were located outside the United States.

Website Access to Reports and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

We make available free of charge on our website at www.ptc.com the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our Current Reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings and Section 16 trading reports on SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 also are available on our website. The reference to our website is not intended to incorporate information on our website into this Annual Report by reference.

Our Code of Ethics for Senior Executive Officers is also available on our website. Additional information about this code and amendments and waivers thereto can be found below in Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Executive Officers

Information about our executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.









Corporate Information

PTC was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1985 and is headquartered in Needham, Massachusetts.





