ITEM 1.Business

PTC Inc. develops and delivers technology solutions, comprised of software and services, that enable our customers to transform the way they create, operate and service their products for a smart, connected world.

Our solutions and software products address the challenges our customers face in the following areas:

Computer-Aided Design (CAD)

Effective and collaborative product design across the globe.

Product Lifecycle Management (PLM)

Management of product development from concept to retirement across functional processes and distributed teams.

Application Lifecycle Management (ALM)

Management of global software development from concept to delivery.

Service Lifecycle Management (SLM)

Planning and delivery of service, and analysis of product intelligence at the point of service.

Internet of Things (IoT)

Enabling connectivity and development of software applications for smart, connected products.

Business Developments

Subscription Model

In 2015, we began offering our customers the option to purchase most of our products as a subscription, whereby a fee is paid for the right to use our software and receive support for a specified period.  A small but growing percentage of our licenses are being sold as subscriptions.  Transitioning a substantial portion of our business from a perpetual licensing model to a subscription model is a top priority for us in the coming year and for several years to follow.

Acquisitions

In May 2015 we acquired ColdLight Solutions, LLC. ColdLight offers solutions for data machine learning and predictive analytics, which expanded our Technology Platform business.

In November 2015, we acquired the Vuforia business from Qualcomm Connected Experiences, Inc. Vuforia is an augmented reality technology platform that adds to our Technology Platform business.

In 2014, we acquired ThingWorx (December), Atego (June) and Axeda (August).

Corporate Organizational Changes

As we expand into new technologies, our business is becoming more complex and our newer business differs in important ways from our traditional core business. The core and new businesses have different strategies and business models, and each has its own needs with respect to how to best build, market, sell, and service its products.  For example, we believe that the new IoT analytics and augmented reality business is best addressed through a large developer and partner ecosystem cultivated through marketing-led approaches, whereas we believe our traditional business is best served by leveraging direct sales efforts. Given the differing go-to-market strategies and the growth opportunities we see in both our core and new businesses, we have made changes to our organizational structure that will allow us to more effectively manage these two










different but complementary business models.  As of October 1, 2015, we reorganized the company into two main business units:

•theSolutions Groupcomprised of our core CAD, PLM, ALM and SLM; and

•theTechnology Platform Groupcomprised of our IoT, analytics and augmented reality business.

Each of the units will be led by a group president and will have separate research and development and go-to-market resources, while the other corporate functions will support both. We believe that this new structure will allow us to optimize our focus and our balance on each of these two businesses, providing focused leadership, improved execution, and performance-oriented accountability that will enable us to leverage our assets and capabilities, with the goal of increasing growth.

Our Markets

The markets we serve present different growth opportunities for us. We see greater opportunity for market growth in our Technology Platform solutions, followed by SLM, PLM and ALM solutions.  CAD, which is a more highly penetrated market, likely presents a lower growth opportunity over time.

Our Principal Products and Services

We generate revenue through the sale of software licenses, subscriptions (which include license access and support for a period of time and optional cloud services), support (which includes technical support and software updates when and if available), and services (which include consulting and implementation and training). We report revenue by line of business (license and subscription, services and support), by geographic region, and by product (CAD, Extended PLM, SLM, & IoT).

Solutions Group

CAD

Our CAD products enable users to create conceptual and detailed designs, analyze designs, perform engineering calculations and leverage the information created downstream using 2D, 3D, parametric and direct modeling.  Our principal CAD products are described below.

PTC Creo®is an interoperable suite of product design software that provides a scalable set of packages for design engineers to meet a variety of specialized needs.  PTC Creo provides capabilities for design flexibility, advanced assembly design, piping and cabling design, advanced surfacing, comprehensive virtual prototyping and other essential design functions.

PTC Mathcad®is software for solving, analyzing and sharing vital engineering calculations.  PTC Mathcad combines the ease and familiarity of an engineering notebook with the powerful features of a dedicated engineering calculations application.

Extended PLM

Extended PLM (ePLM) includes our PLM and ALM products.

PLM:Our PLM products are designed to address common challenges that companies, particularly manufacturing companies, face over the life of the product, from concept to retirement.  These software products help customers manage product configuration information through each stage of the product lifecycle, and communicate and collaborate across the entire enterprise including product development, manufacturing and the supply chain, including sourcing and procurement.

Our principal PLM products are described below.

PTC Windchill®is a suite of PLM software that offers lifecycle intelligence - from design to service. PTC Windchill offers a single repository for all product information.  As such, it is designed to create a “single source of truth” for all product-related content such as CAD models, documents, technical illustrations, embedded software, calculations and requirement specifications for all phases of the product lifecycle to help companies streamline enterprise-wide communication and make informed decisions.

Additionally, our PTC Windchill product family includes supply chain management (SCM) solutions that allow manufacturers, distributors and retailers to collaborate across product development, and the supply chain, including sourcing and procurement, to identify an optimal set of parts, materials and suppliers. This functionality provides










automated cost modeling and visibility into supply chain risk information to balance cost and quality, and enables customers to design products that meet compliance requirements and performance targets.

PTC Creo®View™ enables enterprise-wide visualization, verification, annotation and automated comparison of a wide variety of product development data formats, including CAD (2D and 3D), ECAD, and documents. PTC Creo View provides access to designs and related data without requiring the original authoring tool.

ALM:Our ALM products are designed for discrete manufacturers where coordination and collaboration between software and hardware teams is critical to understand product release readiness, support variant complexity, automate development processes, ensure complete lifecycle traceability and manage change.

Our principal ALM product suite is PTC Integrity™ which includes solutions added with our acquisition of the Atego business.

PTC Integrityenables users to manage system models, software configurations, test plans and defects. With PTC Integrity, engineering teams can improve productivity and quality, streamline compliance, and gain greater product visibility, ultimately enabling them to bring more innovative products to market.

Our Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) solution connects requirements engineering, architecture modeling, physical product definition, and system verification functions. Our solution allows multi-functional teams to work in concert while modeling the interdependencies of mechanical, electrical, and software engineering components.  In doing so, it enables customers to drive efficiencies and process standardization and allows distributed teams to collaboratively build digital models of complex systems, while managing system variability and enabling reuse.

SLM

Our SLM products help manufacturers and their service providers improve service efficiency and quality.  These include capabilities to support product service and maintenance requirements, service information delivery, service parts planning and optimization, service knowledge management, and service analytics. Our principal SLM products are described below.

PTC Servigistics®is a suite of SLM software products that integrate service planning, delivery and analysis to optimize service outcomes. PTC Servigistics products enable a systematic approach to service lifecycle management by providing a single view of service throughout the service network enabling customers to continuously improve their products and services and increase customer satisfaction.

PTC Arbortext®is an enterprise software suite that allows manufacturers to create, illustrate, manage and publish technical and service parts information to improve the operation, maintenance, service and upgrade of equipment throughout its lifecycle.  These products are available in stand-alone configurations as well as integrated with PTC Windchill Service Information Manager and PTC Creo Illustrate to deliver dynamic, product-centric service and parts information.

Technology Platform Group

Our IoT products allow manufacturers and their service providers to enable connectivity and optimize data intelligence.  With our acquisitions of ThingWorx, Axeda, ColdLight and Vuforia, we have expanded our solutions to support the development of applications to gather, analyze and visualize product data, which in turn helps our customers design, operate and service smart, connected products.

Our principal IoT products are described below.

ThingWorx®is a technology platform that enables users to create and deploy applications and solutions for today’s smart, connected world, enabling customers to transform their products and services, innovate, and unlock new business models. ThingWorx allows customers to reduce the time, cost, and risk required to connect, manage, and develop innovative applications for smart, connected products such as predictive maintenance, system monitoring, and usage-based product design requirements.  Our ThingWorx solutions include tools added through our acquisition of Axeda, including cloud-based tools that allow customers to easily and more securely connect products and devices to the cloud, and intelligently process, transform, organize and store product and sensor data.

ThingWorx Machine Learning™is a predictive intelligence tool that uses artificial intelligence technology to simplify and automate the processes of creating and operationalizing predictions inside ThingWorx-powered solutions and other systems of record. ThingWorx Machine Learning complements our IoT portfolio by introducing data analytics to information collected from smart, connected products.










Vuforia™is an augmented reality technology platform that enables applications to see things in the real world and then interact with them.  Using computer vision technologies, and building them for mobile platforms, the technology is accessible through an application programming interface and developer workflows.

PTC Global Support

We offer global support plans for our software products. Participating customers receive updates that we make generally available to our support customers and also have direct access to our global technical support team of certified engineers for issue resolution. We also provide self-service support tools that allow our customers access to extensive technical support information.  When products are purchased as a subscription, support is included as part of the subscription.

PTC Global Services

We offer consulting, implementation, training and cloud services through our Global Services Organization, with approximately 1,200 professionals worldwide, as well as through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our services create value by helping customers improve product development performance through technology enabled process improvement and multiple deployment paths.  Our cloud services customers receive hosting and 24/7 application management.



Geographic and Segment Information

In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we had two reportable segments: Software Products, which included license and subscription and related support revenue for all our products except computer-based training products, and Services, which included consulting, implementation, training, cloud services and license and support revenue for computer-based training products. Financial information about our segments and international and domestic operations may be found in Note NSegment Informationof “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

We invest heavily in research and development to improve the quality and expand the functionality of our products. Approximately one third of our employees are dedicated to research and development initiatives, conducted primarily in the United States, India and Israel.

Our research and development expenses were $227.5 millionin 2015, $226.5 million in 2014, and $221.9 million in 2013. Additional information about our research and development expenditures may be found in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations-Costs and Expenses-Research and Development.”

Sales and Marketing

We derive most of our revenue from products and services sold directly by our sales force to end-user customers. Approximately 20% to 25% of our products and services are sold through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our sales force focuses on large accounts, while our reseller channel provides a cost-effective means of covering the small- and medium-size business market. Our strategic services partners provide service offerings to help customers implement our product offerings.  As we grow our Technology Platform business, we expect our go-to-market strategy will rely more on channel partners and marketing directly to end users and developers.

Strategic Partners



Building an ecosystem of strategic partners will become increasingly important as we expand our Technology Platform offerings and seek to improve the efficiency with which we deliver our traditional products and services.  With this in mind, we have recently entered into strategic partner relationshipsto jointly market, sell, and develop integrated products and services.

Competition

We compete with technology providers who target discrete manufacturers.  We compete with a number of companies that offer solutions that address one or more specific functional areas covered by our solutions, including Dassault Systèmes SA and Siemens AG for traditional CAD solutions, PLM solutions, manufacturing planning solutions and visualization and digital mock-up solutions; Oracle Corporation and SAP AG for PLM solutions and SLM solutions; and IBM Corporation and Hewlett Packard for ALM solutions.  We believe our products are more specifically targeted toward the business process challenges of










manufacturing companies and offer broader and deeper functionality for those processes than ERP-based solutions.  We also compete in the CAD market with design products such as Autodesk, Inc.'s Inventor, Siemens AG's Solid Edge and Dassault Systemes SA's SolidWorks for sales to smaller manufacturing customers.  In our Technology Platform business, we compete with large established companies like IBM Corporation, Microsoft, Cisco, Oracle, SAP, and General Electric.  Additionally, there are a number of small companies that compete in the market for IoT products.

Proprietary Rights

Our software products and related technical know-how, along with our trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection. The nature and extent of such legal protection depends in part on the type of intellectual property right and the relevant jurisdiction. In the U.S., we are generally able to maintain our trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use and to maintain our patents for up to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date. We also use license management and other anti-piracy technology measures, as well as contractual restrictions, to curtail the unauthorized use and distribution of our products.

Our proprietary rights are subject to risks and uncertainties described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below. You should read that discussion, which is incorporated into this section by reference.

Backlog

We define backlog as contractually committed orders for license, subscription and support with a customer for which the associated revenue has not been recognized and the customer has not been invoiced.  Deferred revenue primarily relates to software support agreements invoiced to customers for which the revenue has not yet been recognized.  Customer commitments for amounts that are not in deferred revenue and have not yet been invoiced to customers related to multi-year support and subscription contracts totaled approximately $210 million at September 30, 2015 (compared to approximately $185 million at September 30, 2014), of which we expect to invoice customers approximately $140 million within the next twelve months.

Employees

As of September 30, 2015, we had 5,982 employees, including 1,998 in product development; 1,857 in customer support, training, consulting, cloud services and product distribution; 1,416 in sales and marketing; and 711 in general and administration. Of these employees, 2,263 were located in the United States and 3,719 were located outside the United States.

Website Access to Reports and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

We make available free of charge on our website at www.ptc.com the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our Current Reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections     13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings and Section 16 trading reports on SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 also are available on our website. The reference to our website is not intended to incorporate information on our website into this Annual Report by reference.

Our Code of Ethics for Senior Executive Officers is also available on our website. Additional information about this code and amendments and waivers thereto can be found below in Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Executive Officers

Information about our executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Corporate Information

PTC was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1985 and is headquartered in Needham, Massachusetts.





