ITEM 1.Business

Overview

Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) develops, markets and
supports product lifecycle management software solutions and related services that help companies design products, manage product information and improve their product development processes. Our software solutions help customers increase innovation,
improve product quality, decrease time to market, and reduce product development costs.

We offer solutions in the product
development market, which encompasses the product lifecycle management, or PLM, market (product data management, collaboration and related solutions) and the CAx market (computer-aided design, manufacturing and engineering (CAD, CAM and CAE)
solutions).

Our software solutions provide our customers with an integral product development system that enables them to
create digital product content, collaborate with others in the product development process, control product content, automate product development processes, configure products and product content, and communicate product information to people and
systems across the extended enterprise and design chain. We have devoted significant resources to developing our PLM solutions and integrating them with multiple CAD and related software solutions. We continue to integrate our PLM products more
tightly and make them easier to deploy. We believe this will create significant added value for our customers.

We generate
revenue through the sale of:



•software licenses,



•maintenance services, which include technical support and software updates, and



•consulting and training services, which include implementation services for our software.

The PLM and the CAx markets we serve present different growth opportunities for us. We believe the market among large businesses for PLM
solutions (that we refer to as our “Enterprise Solutions”) presents the greatest opportunity for revenue growth for us and believe revenue from this market will constitute an increasingly greater proportion of our revenue over time. We
believe that the markets for both our PLM Enterprise solutions and CAx Desktop solutions among small- and medium-size businesses also provide an opportunity for future growth. While the market for our CAx solutions among large businesses is a mature
market, we believe our Creo suite, which we expect to release in the summer of 2011, will create a growth opportunity for us in this market.

Our solutions are complemented by our experienced services and technical support organizations, as well as resellers and other strategic partners. Our services and technical support organizations provide
consulting, implementation and training support services to customers worldwide. Our resellers supplement our direct sales force to provide greater geographic and small- and medium-size account coverage. Our strategic partners provide product and/or
service offerings that complement our solutions.







Our Principal Products and Services

We report our revenue by product groupings—Desktop and Enterprise—and by distribution channel—Direct and Indirect.

Enterprise revenue includes our PLM solutions:
Windchill®, Arbortext®enterprise products, Creo
Elements/ViewTM(formerly ProductView®), Relex®and InSightTM. Desktop revenue includes our CAx Solutions: Creo
Elements/ProTM(formerly Pro/ENGINEER®), Creo Elements/DirectTM(formerly CoCreate®), Arbortext authoring products and
Mathcad®.

Direct revenue includes sales made primarily by our direct sales force to large businesses. Indirect revenue includes sales by our reseller channel, primarily to small- and medium-size businesses, as well
as revenue from other accounts that we have classified as indirect.

PLM Solutions

Our PLM solutions suite addresses common challenges that companies, and in particular manufacturing companies, face in their product
development processes, including product data management, communication and collaboration with the extended enterprise, portfolio management, change management, regulatory compliance, technical and marketing documentation, heterogeneity of systems,
and product service and maintenance requirements. Our suite of PLM solutions includes:

Windchill®solutions are a family of sophisticated, internet-based content and process management solutions for managing
complex data and relationships, processes and publications, including:



•Windchill
PDMLink®, a product content management solution that is used to control information by facilitating data
accessibility and automating and managing the product development process throughout the life of a product. Windchill PDMLink is fluent with workgroup level CAD content management as well as complete enterprise-wide product content management
and enables bill of materials and document management, change management and configuration management.



•Windchill ProjectLink™, a collaborative project management solution that enables companies (including their employees, partners, suppliers and
customers) to work together on projects through internet-based compartmentalized workspaces. Windchill ProjectLink also has capabilities for project plan development, milestone and deliverable tracking, activity assignment and management, and
on-line discussion forums.



•Windchill
ProductPoint®, a solution that, by extending the capabilities of Microsoft SharePoint®, enables the sharing of CAD and other structured data among teams through social computing and associated Web 2.0
technologies.

Arbortext®enterprise solutions enable our customers to manage complex information assets that enhance their customer support and service center information delivery processes.
Optimized for managing XML-based structured content and 2D and 3D technical illustrations created using our Arbortext authoring products, these solutions support collaboration by geographically dispersed teams and manage critical processes such as
configuration management and the release of multilingual and multichannel technical documentation. The solutions consist of a Windchill-based content and configuration management system that manages the XML components, illustrations and related
localized content components and a dynamic publishing server that produces output automatically in the format and language required by the user.

We are developing a new generation of Arbortext solutions that will enable manufacturing organizations to associate their downstream technical and service information—such as illustrated 3D parts
catalogs, marketing specifications, Web-based training materials and interactive 3D service procedures—with original product development data hosted in PLM tools. This integrated solution is being designed to ensure that updates in product
designs are reflected in real-time technical and service information throughout the product lifecycle.







Creo Elements/View™(formerly ProductView™)solutions enable
enterprise-wide visualization, verification, annotation and automated comparison of a wide variety of product development data formats, including MCAD (2D and 3D), ECAD, and documents. These solutions provide lightweight access to product designs
and related data without requiring the original authoring tool. Formerly known as ProductView, Creo Elements/View was renamed in connection with the product launch of our new product, Creo, described below.

Relex®Reliability™ enables organizations to plan and evaluate product reliability, safety and maintainability.

InSight™ product analytics solutions enable manufacturers to measure and improve product performance. InSight solutions
include InSight Environmental Compliance™, which enables companies to manage and improve the environmental performance and regulatory requirements of their products.

Desktop Solutions

Our Desktop solutions include our
integrated CAx software, our Arbortext document authoring tools and our Mathcad®engineering calculations
software.

We announced our Creo™ product initiative in October 2010. Creo is being developed to remedy problems
that are not currently addressed by mechanical CAD tools: usability, interoperability, assembly management and technology lock-in. Leveraging technology assets unique to PTC, Creo is being designed as a scalable suite of interoperable, open,
and easy-to-use product design applications that will provide the right-size solution for each participant in the design process. Creo will offer upwards compatibility with the PTC products our customers are using today. We expect to
release Creo 1.0 in the summer of 2011.

As part of this initiative, we rebranded some of our existing design products to
reflect that they are part of the Creo family of products:



•Pro/ENGINEER®became Creo Elements/Pro™



•CoCreate®became Creo Elements/Direct™

We describe these and our other principal Desktop solutions below:

Creo Elements/Pro (formerly Pro/ENGINEER®)is a family of three-dimensional product design solutions based on a parametric, feature-based solid modeler that enables changes made during the design
process to be associatively updated throughout the design. Designers can use Creo Elements/Pro for detailed design (CAD), manufacturing/production (CAM), and simulation/analysis (CAE), as well as for exchanging CAD data with a multitude of sources
and in varied standard formats, allowing them to create more innovative, differentiated and functional products quickly and easily. Creo Elements/Pro can improve product quality and reduce time to market by enabling users to evaluate multiple design
alternatives and to share data with bi-directional associativity.

Creo Elements/Direct (formerly
CoCreate®)is a family of explicit CAD and collaboration software that enables customers
pursuing a lightweight and flexible design strategy to meet short design cycles and to create product designs quickly. Creo Elements/Direct’s explicit modeling approach enables product development teams to create and modify 3D product designs
quickly. This fast and lightweight design approach gives designers flexibility to make changes to a product design late in the development process and the ability to work with multi-source CAD data. Creo Elements/Direct enables users to reduce
design cycle time, improve workgroup collaboration through an integrated data management system and decrease product development costs.

Mathcad®is an engineering calculation software solution
that combines a computational engine, accessed through conventional math notation, with a full-featured word processor and graphing tools. Mathcad allows







customers to determine their Creo Elements/Pro designs and predict the behavior of a Creo Elements/Pro model, which can then be validated using our Creo Elements/Pro CAE solutions. This approach
can help our customers speed time to market by significantly reducing the number of iterations necessary to complete a design. In addition, when combined with our Windchill solutions, the valuable intellectual property captured in Mathcad can be
managed and shared securely with others for reuse and for regulatory compliance.

Arbortextauthoring products Arbortext Editor™ and Arbortext IsoDraw®are designed to help customers improve
documentation accuracy, speed time to market, reduce translation requirements and lower publishing costs.



•Arbortext Editoris an XML component-based authoring tool used to create structured content to automate multiple output types. Arbortext Editor
works like familiar word processing software to create reusable content components, which can be aggregated into dynamic, customized publications. With Arbortext Editor, documents can be created by multiple contributors and managed in a structured
content management system to enable content reuse across multiple outputs- print and digital. Consequently, when changes to content are made, those changes are reflected wherever that content is used.



•Arbortext IsoDrawis a technical illustration solution that enables companies to create both 2D and 3D technical illustrations and animations
from scratch or from existing CAD data. Illustrations and animations created using Arbortext IsoDraw can be embedded into Arbortext content components, resulting in rich technical publications such as manufacturing instructions, operator guides,
parts catalogs and interactive service procedures.

Maintenance Services

We offer maintenance support plans for our software products. Participating customers may receive new releases that we make generally
available to our maintenance services customers, and also have direct access to our global technical support team of certified engineers for issue resolution. We also provide self-service support tools that allow our customers access to extensive
technical support information.

Consulting and Training Services

We offer consulting, implementation and training services through our Global Services Organization, with over 1,000 professionals
worldwide, as well as through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our services create value by helping customers improve product development performance through technology enabled process improvement.

Geographic and Segment Information

We have two reportable segments: (1) Software Products, which includes license and related maintenance services revenue (including new releases and technical support) for all our products except
training-related products; and (2) Services, which includes consulting, implementation, training, computer-based training products, including related maintenance services, and other support revenue. Financial information about our international
and domestic operations, including by segment, may be found in Note N of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of this Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

We invest heavily in research and development on an ongoing basis to improve the quality and expand the functionality of our products. Approximately 35% of our employees are dedicated to research and
development initiatives, conducted primarily in the United States, Israel and India.







Our research and development expenses were $201.6 million in 2010, $188.5 million in 2009
and $182.0 million in 2008. Additional information about our research and development expenditures may be found in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of
Operations—Costs and Expenses—Research and Development” of this Annual Report.

Sales and Marketing

We derive most of our revenue from products and services sold directly by our sales force to end-user customers. We also
sell products and services through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our sales force focuses on large accounts, while our reseller channel provides a cost-effective means of covering the small- and medium-size business market. Our
strategic services partners provide product and/or service offerings that complement our offerings.

Within our direct sales
force, we have strategic accounts and general business accounts units. Within the strategic accounts unit, groups have areas of vertical account focus. This vertical orientation is mirrored in our services delivery organization and, increasingly, in
the products we deliver to strategic accounts. The general business account unit is organized geographically.

We continue to
broaden our indirect distribution channel through alliances with third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our resellers distribute our products and provide related services throughout North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific; our other
strategic partners complement our product development system with ancillary offerings.

Competition

We compete primarily in the product development market, including the PLM market and the CAx market. We compete with a number of
companies that offer solutions that address specific functional areas covered by our solutions, including: Dassault Systemes SA and Siemens AG for traditional CAx solutions, PLM solutions, manufacturing planning solutions and visualization and
digital mock-up solutions; and Oracle Corporation for PLM solutions. In addition, we compete with SAP AG, which offers a PLM solution that controls product data within the larger framework of its Enterprise Resource Planning solution. We believe our
PLM solutions are more specifically targeted toward the product development processes within manufacturing companies and offer broader and deeper functionality for those processes than ERP-based solutions.

We also compete in the CAx market with design products such as Autodesk, Inc.’s Inventor, Siemens AG’s Solid Edge and Dassault
Systemes SA’s SolidWorks for sales to smaller manufacturing customers.

Proprietary Rights

Our software products and related technical know-how, along with our trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos,
are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection. The nature and extent of such legal protection depends in part on
the type of intellectual property right and the relevant jurisdiction. In the U.S., we are generally able to maintain our trademark registrations for as long as the marks are in use and our patents for up to 20 years from the earliest effective
filing date. We also use license management and other anti-piracy technology measures, as well as contractual restrictions, to curtail the unauthorized use and distribution of our products.

Our proprietary rights are subject to risks and uncertainties described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below. You should
read that discussion, which is incorporated into this section by reference.







Backlog

We generally ship our products within 30 days after receipt of a customer order. A high percentage of our license revenue historically has been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter,
and this revenue tends to be concentrated in the later part of that month. Accordingly, orders may exist at the end of a quarter that have not been shipped and not been recognized as revenue. We do not believe that our backlog at any particular
point in time is indicative of future sales levels.

Employees

As of September 30, 2010, we had 5,317 employees, including 1,914 in product development; 1,521 in customer support, training
and consulting; 1,347 in sales and marketing; and 535 in general and administration. Of these employees, 1,956 were located in the United States and 3,361 were located outside the United States.

Website Access to Reports and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

We make available free of charge on our website at www.ptc.com the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after
electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our Current Reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings and Section 16 trading reports on SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 also are available on our website. The reference to our website is not
intended to incorporate information on our website into this Annual Report by reference.

Our Code of Ethics for Senior
Executive Officers is also available on our website. Additional information about this code and amendments and waivers thereto can be found below in Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Executive Officers

Information about our executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Corporate Information

PTC was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1985 and
is headquartered in Needham, Massachusetts.







