ITEM 1.Business

PTC Inc. develops and delivers technology solutions, comprised of software and services,  that transform the way our customers create and service their products.  Our solutions help our customers in discrete manufacturing organizations optimize the activities within individual business functions, including engineering, supply chain, manufacturing and service, and coordinate these processes across the enterprise to create product and service advantage.

Our solutions and software products address the challenges our customers face in the following areas:

Computer-Aided Design (CAD)

Effective and collaborative product design across the globe.

Product Lifecycle Management (PLM)

Management of product development from concept to retirement across the globe.

Application Lifecycle Management (ALM)

Management of global software development.

Supply Chain Management (SCM)

Management and optimization of global supply chains.

Service Lifecycle Management (SLM)

Delivery and capture of product intelligence at the point of service.

2013 Business Developments

In 2013, weexpanded our technology solution portfolio through the acquisitions of Servigistics, Inc., Enigma Information Systems Ltd. and NetIDEAS, Inc.  Servigistics and Enigma significantly expanded our SLM solutions suite and accelerated our ability to help our discrete manufacturing customers transform their service strategies and operations.  NetIDEAS was a leading provider of software hosting and technical consulting services in the areas of product development and PLM.  The acquisition of NetIDEAS enables us to expand our product deployment offerings to better serve our customers.  We also expanded our services partner program as part of our strategy to shift more services business to those partners, enabling us to focus on delivering high-value services to our customers.

Our Markets

The markets we serve present different growth opportunities for us. We believe the PLM, ALM, SCM and SLM markets present the greatest opportunities for revenue growth and revenue from these markets will constitute an increasingly greater proportion of our revenue over time. We believe the market for CAD among small- and medium-size businesses also provides an opportunity for growth. Conversely, the market for CAD among large businesses is highly penetrated and presents a lower growth opportunity for us.

Our Principal Products and Services

We generate revenue through the sale of software licenses, support (which includes technical support and software updates), and services (which include implementation services). We report revenue by line of business (license, service and support), by geographic region, and by product  (CAD, Extended PLM and SLM).

CAD









Our CAD products enable users to create conceptual and detailed designs, analyze designs, perform engineering calculations and leverage the information created downsteam.  Our principal CAD products are described below.

PTC Creo®is an interoperable suite of product design software that provides a scalable set of packages for design engineers and that are optimized to meet a variety of specialized needs.  PTC Creo provides capabilities for design flexibility, advanced assembly design, piping and cabling design, advanced surfacing, comprehensive virtual prototyping and other essential design functions.

PTC Mathcad®is industry-leading software for solving, analyzing and sharing vital engineering calculations.  PTC Mathcad combines the ease and familiarity of an engineering notebook with the powerful features of a dedicated engineering calculations application.

Extended PLM



Extended PLM includes our PLM, ALM and SCM products.

PLM:Our PLM products address common challenges that companies, particularly manufacturing companies, face over the life of the product, from concept to retirement.  These software products help customers manage product configuration information through each stage of the product lifecycle, communicate and collaborate with the extended enterprise, and manage change.  Our principal PLM products are described below.

PTC Windchill®is production-proven PLM software that offers complete lifecycle intelligence - from design to service. PTC Windchill offers a single source of truth for all phases of the product lifecycle to help companies streamline enterprise-wide communication and make informed decisions.

PTC Creo®View™ enables enterprise-wide visualization, verification, annotation and automated comparison of a wide variety of product development data formats, including CAD (2D and 3D), ECAD, and documents. PTC Creo View provides lightweight access to designs and related data without requiring the original authoring tool.

ALM:Our ALM products are designed for discrete manufacturers where coordination and collaboration between software and hardware teams is critical to understand product release readiness, support variant complexity, automate development processes, ensure complete lifecycle traceability and manage change.  Our ALM products enable companies to accelerate innovation of software intensive products.  Our principal ALM product is PTC Integrity™.

PTC Integrity™ enables users to manage system models, software configurations, test plans and defects. With PTC Integrity, engineering teams can improve productivity and quality, streamline compliance, and gain complete product visibility, and ultimately drive more innovative products into the market.

SCM:Our SCM products allow manufacturers to collaborate across product development, the supply chain, sourcing and procurement, so they can identify an optimal set of parts, materials and suppliers. SCM accelerates the sourcing process through an automated process with detailed cost modeling and provides visibility into supply chain risk information to balance cost, quality and compliance. Our principal SCM products are described below.

PTC Windchill®FlexPLM®is designed specifically for manufacturers in the Consumer Products and Retail, Footwear and Apparel industries.  PTC Windchill FlexPLM addresses both industry-specific challenges and everyday business pressures. It offers a high-performance, internet-based platform to bring together globally distributed teams. Plus, it provides line planning, specification management, merchandizing, and other essential PLM capabilities formanaging a company’s complete assortment of products.

PTC Windchill Product Analyticsis a suite of products that enable manufacturers to assess product compliance, performance and risk early in the innovation process and throughout the product lifecycle. It helps engineers ensure that products meet performance targets at launch, including cost, weight, compliance, and more.

SLM

Our SLM products help manufacturers and their service providers to improve service efficiency and quality.  These include capabilities to support product service and maintenance requirements, service information delivery, service parts planning and optimization, service knowledge management, field service ticketing and scheduling, warranty and contract management, and service analytics. Our principal SLM products are described below.

PTC Servigistics®is a suite of software comprised of products from our recent acquisition of Servigistics, 4CS and Enigma and new PTC organically developed products specialized for service. Together they provide comprehensive SLM software that integrates service planning, delivery and analysis to optimize service outcomes. PTC Servigistics products









enable a systematic approach to service lifecycle management providing a single view of service throughout the service network for continuous product and service improvement to ensure customer satisfaction.

PTC Arbortext®is an enterprise software suite for manufacturers to create, illustrate, manage and publish technical and service parts information to improve the operation, maintenance, service and upgrade of equipment throughout its lifecycle.  These products are available in stand-alone configurations as well as integrated with PTC Windchill Service Information Manager and PTC Creo Illustrate to deliver dynamic, product-centric service and parts information.

PTC Global Support

We offer global support plans for our software products. Participating customers receive updates that we make generally available to our support customers and also have direct access to our global technical support team of certified engineers for issue resolution. We also provide self-service support tools that allow our customers access to extensive technical support information.

PTC Global Services

We offer consulting, implementation and training services through our Global Services Organization, with over 1,300 professionals worldwide, as well as through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our services create value by helping customers improve product development performance through technology enabled process improvement and multiple deployment paths.

Geographic and Segment Information

We have two reportable segments: Software Products, which includes license and related support revenue for all our products except training-related products, and Services, which includes consulting, implementation, training and license and support revenue for computer-based training products. Financial information about our international and domestic operations, including by segment, may be found in Note N of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

We invest heavily in research and development to improve the quality and expand the functionality of our products. Approximately one third of our employees are dedicated to research and development initiatives, conducted primarily in the United States, Israel and India.

Our research and development expenses were $221.9 million in 2013, $215.0 million in 2012 and $211.4 million in 2011. Additional information about our research and development expenditures may be found in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations-Costs and Expenses-Research and Development.”

Sales and Marketing

We derive most of our revenue from products and services sold directly by our sales force to end-user customers. Approximately 20% to 25% of our products and services are sold through third-party resellers and other strategic partners. Our sales force focuses on large accounts, while our reseller channel provides a cost-effective means of covering the small- and medium-size business market. Our strategic services partners provide service offerings to help customers implement our product offerings.

Competition

We compete with technology providers who target discrete manufacturers in the following markets: product lifecycle management (PLM), application lifecycle management (ALM), CAD (computer aided design, manufacturing and engineering), supply chain management (SCM) and service lifecycle management (SLM). We compete with a number of companies that offer solutions that address one or more specific functional areas covered by our solutions, including Dassault Systèmes SA and Siemens AG for traditional CAD solutions, PLM solutions, manufacturing planning solutions and visualization and digital mock-up solutions; Oracle Corporation and SAP AG for PLM solutions, SCM solutions and SLM solutions; and IBM Corporation for ALM solutions.  We believe our products are more specifically targeted toward the business process challenges of manufacturing companies and offer broader and deeper functionality for those processes than ERP-based solutions.  We also compete in the CAD market with design products such as Autodesk, Inc.'s Inventor, Siemens AG's Solid Edge and Dassault Systemes SA's SolidWorks for sales to smaller manufacturing customers.











Proprietary Rights

Our software products and related technical know-how, along with our trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection. The nature and extent of such legal protection depends in part on the type of intellectual property right and the relevant jurisdiction. In the U.S., we are generally able to maintain our trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use and to maintain our patents for up to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date. We also use license management and other anti-piracy technology measures, as well as contractual restrictions, to curtail the unauthorized use and distribution of our products.

Our proprietary rights are subject to risks and uncertainties described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below. You should read that discussion, which is incorporated into this section by reference.

Backlog

We generally ship our products within 30 days after receipt of a customer order. A high percentage of our license revenue historically has been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter, and this revenue tends to be concentrated in the latter part of that month. Accordingly, orders may exist at the end of a quarter that have not been shipped and not been recognized as revenue. We do not believe that our backlog at any particular point in time is indicative of future sales levels.

Employees

As of September 30, 2013, we had 6,000 employees, including 2,001 in product development; 2,001 in customer support, training and consulting; 1,362 in sales and marketing; and 636 in general and administration and product distribution. Of these employees, 2,171 were located in the United States and 3,829 were located outside the United States.

Website Access to Reports and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

We make available free of charge on our website at www.ptc.com the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our Current Reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings and Section 16 trading reports on SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 also are available on our website. The reference to our website is not intended to incorporate information on our website into this Annual Report by reference.

Our Code of Ethics for Senior Executive Officers is also available on our website. Additional information about this code and amendments and waivers thereto can be found below in Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Executive Officers

Information about our executive officers is incorporated by reference from Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.

Corporate Information

PTC was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1985 and is headquartered in Needham, Massachusetts.





