ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Teleflex Incorporated is referred to herein as “we,”
    “us,” “our,” “Teleflex” and the
    “Company.”

THE
    COMPANY

Teleflex is principally a global provider of medical technology
    products that enable healthcare providers to improve patient
    outcomes, reduce infections and enhance patient and provider
    safety. We primarily develop, manufacture and supply single-use
    medical devices used by hospitals and healthcare providers for
    common diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in critical care
    and surgical applications. We serve hospitals and healthcare
    providers in more than 140 countries.

We provide a broad-based platform of medical products, which we
    categorize into four groups: Critical Care, Surgical Care,
    Cardiac Care and OEM and Development Services. Critical care,
    representing our largest product group, includes medical devices
    used in vascular access, anesthesia, urology and respiratory
    care applications; surgical care includes surgical instruments
    and devices; and cardiac care includes cardiac assist devices
    and equipment. We also design and manufacture instruments and
    devices for other medical device manufacturers. Our primary
    products and product brands include the following:

•

Arrow vascular access products, including, central venous access
    catheters, or CVCs, featuring the ARROWg+ard, or ARROWg+ard Blue
    Plus, antiseptic surface treatments to reduce the risk of
    catheter related infection, peripherally inserted central
    catheters, or PICCs, catheters for use in treatment of chronic
    hemodialysis and catheters and accessories used in critical care
    monitoring and treatment;

•

Sheridan and Rüsch endotracheal tubes, laryngeal masks,
    airways and face masks to deliver anesthetic agents and oxygen,
    and Arrow regional anesthesia products that include catheters
    used in epidural, spinal and peripheral nerve block procedures;

•

Hudson RCI and Gibeck brand humidifiers, circuits, nebulizers,
    filters, masks, tubing and cannulas used in aerosol and
    medication delivery, oxygen therapy and ventilation management;

•

Rusch urology catheters (including Foley, intermittent, external
    and suprapubic), urine collectors, catheterization accessories
    and products for operative endurology;

•

Deknatel, Pleur-evac, Pilling, Taut and Weck ligation products,
    clips, appliers, and hand-held instruments for general and
    specialty surgical procedures, access ports used in minimally
    invasive surgical procedures including robotic surgery, and
    fluid management products used for chest drainage;

•

Arrow cardiac assist balloon pumps, catheters and accessories
    used in the treatment of severe cardiac conditions; and

•

Beere Medical, KMedic, Specialized Medical Devices, Deknatel and
    TFXOEM customized medical instruments, implants and components.

Teleflex is focused on achieving consistent, sustainable and
    profitable growth through development of new products, expansion
    of market share, introduction of existing products into new
    geographies and through selected acquisitions which enhance or
    expedite our development initiatives and our ability to grow
    market share. Furthermore, we believe our research and
    development capabilities and our commitment to engineering
    excellence and lean, low-cost manufacturing allow us to
    consistently bring cost effective, innovative products to market
    that improve the safety, efficacy, and quality of healthcare.

In addition to our medical business, we also have businesses
    that serve niche segments of the aerospace and commercial
    markets with specialty engineered products. Our aerospace
    products include cargo-handling systems, containers, and pallets
    for commercial air cargo, and military aircraft actuators. Our
    commercial


products include driver controls, engine assemblies and drive
    parts for the marine industry and rigging products and services
    for commercial industries.

HISTORY AND
    RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

Teleflex was founded in 1943 as a manufacturer of precision
    mechanical push/pull controls for military aircraft. From this
    original single market, single product orientation, we have
    grown through an active program of development of new products,
    introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and
    through acquisitions of companies with related market,
    technology or industry expertise. Throughout our history, we
    have continually focused on providing innovative
    technology-driven, specialty-engineered products that help our
    customers meet their business requirements.

Over the past several years, we have engaged in an extensive
    acquisition and divestiture program to improve margins, reduce
    cyclicality and focus our resources on the development of our
    healthcare business. We have significantly changed the
    composition of our portfolio of businesses, expanding our
    presence in the medical device industry, while divesting many of
    our businesses serving the aerospace and industrial markets. The
    most significant of these transactions occurred in 2007 with our
    acquisition of Arrow International, a leading global supplier of
    catheter-based medical technology products used for vascular
    access and cardiac care, and the divestiture of our automotive
    and industrial businesses. Our acquisition of Arrow
    significantly expanded our disposable medical product offerings
    for critical care, enhanced our global footprint and added to
    our research and development capabilities.

We continually evaluate the composition of the portfolio of our
    products and businesses to ensure alignment with our overall
    objectives. We strive to maintain a portfolio of products and
    businesses that provide consistency of performance, improved
    profitability and sustainable growth.

OUR BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS

We operate our businesses through three segments, the largest of
    which is our Medical Segment, which represented 77 percent
    of our consolidated revenues and 91 percent of our segment
    operating profit in 2009. In 2009, our Aerospace and Commercial
    segments represented 10 percent and 13 percent of
    consolidated revenues, respectively, and 5 percent and
    4 percent of segment operating profit, respectively.

Further detail and additional information regarding our segments
    and geographic areas is presented in Note 17 to our
    consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K.

Medical

Our Medical Segment designs, develops, manufactures and supplies
    medical devices for critical care and surgical applications. We
    categorize our medical products into four product groups:
    Critical Care, Surgical, Cardiac Care, and OEM and Development
    Services.

Approximately 49 percent of our segment revenues are
    derived from customers outside the United States. Our Medical
    Segment operates 30 manufacturing sites, with major
    manufacturing operations located in Czech Republic, Germany,
    Malaysia, Mexico and the United States.

The following is an overview of the key product lines within our
    Medical Segment.

Critical
    Care

Critical care, which is predominantly comprised of single use
    products, constitutes the largest product category within our
    Medical Segment, representing 65 percent of segment
    revenues in 2009. Our medical products are used in a wide range
    of critical care procedures for vascular access, respiratory
    care, anesthesia and airway management, treatment of urologic
    conditions and other specialty procedures.


We are a leading provider of specialty products for critical
    care. Our products are generally marketed under the brand names
    of Arrow, Rüsch, HudsonRCI, Gibeck and Sheridan. The large
    majority of sales for disposable medical products are made to
    the hospital/healthcare provider market, with a smaller
    percentage sold to alternate sites.

Vascular Access
    Products

Our vascular access products are generally catheter-based
    products used in a variety of clinical procedures to facilitate
    multiple critical care therapies including the administration of
    intravenous medications, other therapies, and the measurement of
    blood pressure and taking of blood samples through a single
    puncture site.

Our vascular access catheters and related devices consist
    principally of central venous access catheters such as the
    following: the Arrow-Howe’s Multi-Lumen Catheter, a
    catheter equipped with three or four channels, or lumens;
    double-and single-lumen catheters, which are designed for use in
    a variety of clinical procedures; the Arrow Pressure Injectable
    CVC, which gives clinicians who perform contrast-enhanced CT
    scans the option of using an indwelling pressure injectable
    Arrow CVC without having to insert another catheter for their
    scan; and percutaneous sheath introducers, which are used as a
    means for inserting cardiovascular and other catheterization
    devices into the vascular system during critical care procedures.

We also provide a range of peripherally inserted central
    catheters, which are soft, flexible catheters inserted in the
    upper arm and advanced into the superior vena cava and are
    accessed for various types of intravenous medications and
    therapies, and radial artery catheters, which are used for
    measuring arterial blood pressure and taking blood samples. Our
    offerings include a pressure injectable peripherally inserted
    catheter which addresses the therapeutic need for a catheter
    that can withstand the higher pressures required by the
    injection of contrast media for CT scans.

Our vascular access products also include specialty catheters
    and related products used in a range of other procedures and
    include percutaneous thrombolytic devices, which are designed
    for clearance of thrombosed hemodialysis grafts in chronic
    hemodialysis patients; and hemodialysis access catheters,
    including the
    Cannon

®

Catheter, which is used to facilitate dialysis treatment.

Many of our vascular access catheters are treated with the
    ARROWg+ard, or ARROWg+ard Blue Plus, antiseptic surface
    treatments to reduce the risk of catheter related infection.
    ARROWg+ard Blue Plus is a newer, longer lasting formulation of
    ARROWg+ard and provides antimicrobial treatment of the interior
    lumens and hubs of each catheter.

As part of our ongoing efforts to meet physicians’ needs
    for safety and management of risk of infection in the hospital
    setting, we sell a Maximal Barrier Precautions central venous
    access kit, which includes a full body drape, a catheter treated
    with the ARROWg+ard antimicrobial technology and other
    accessories. The features of this kit were created to assist
    healthcare providers in complying with guidelines for reducing
    catheter-related bloodstream infections that have been
    established by a variety of health regulatory agencies, such as
    the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Joint
    Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations.

Related products include custom tubing sets used to connect
    central venous catheters to blood pressure monitoring devices
    and drug infusion systems.

During 2009, we introduced the Arrow Pressure Injectable Triple
    Lumen PICC with a non-tapered catheter body and the Arrow
    BlueFlexTip, designed to reduce the risk of thrombosis and
    infection associated with venous access catheters. We introduced
    a new tray design and additional features for our kits
    containing our Arrow Pressure Injectable CVC, and a CVC kit
    designed specifically for the needs of the Japanese market.


Respiratory
    Care

Our respiratory care products principally consist of devices
    used in aerosol and medication delivery, oxygen therapy and
    ventilation management. We offer an extensive range of aerosol
    therapy products, including the Micromist Nebulizer, the
    Neb-U-Mask System and the Opti-Neb Pro Compressor. We are also a
    global provider of oxygen supplies, offering a broad range of
    products to deliver oxygen therapy safely and comfortably. These
    include masks, cannulas, tubing and humidifiers. These products
    are used in a variety of clinical settings including hospitals,
    long-term care facilities, rehabilitation centers and
    patients’ homes to treat respiratory ailments such as
    chronic lung disease, pneumonia, cystic fibrosis and asthma.

Our ventilation management products promote patient safety and
    maximize clinician efficiency. These products include ventilator
    circuits with an extended life to support clinical practice
    guidelines, high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters that
    provide protection against the transmission of bacteria and
    viruses, heat and moisture exchangers that reduce circuit
    manipulation and cross-contamination risk and heated humidifiers
    that promote patient compliance to non-invasive respiratory
    strategies, like Non-Invasive Ventilation and High Flow Oxygen
    Therapy.

Our ConchaTherm Neptune is a heated humidification solution. It
    is designed to enable the caregiver to customize patient
    treatment to meet specific clinical goals and to facilitate
    advanced patient outcomes without sacrificing clinician
    efficiency.

During 2009, we introduced the Gibeck HumidFlo heat and moisture
    exchanger, which allows medication to be delivered without
    breaking the breathing circuit or interrupting ventilation, and
    OSMO, a product that allows for maintenance free water removal
    from the expiratory limb of the breathing circuit during
    mechanical ventilation (breathing systems used to deliver
    medical gases from a ventilator to a patient’s lungs). In
    2009, we also signed an agreement to act as an exclusive
    distributor of the ResMed Non-Invasive Ventilation mask
    portfolio for specified acute care hospitals in the United
    States.

Anesthesia and
    Airway Management

Our anesthesia and airway management products include
    endotracheal tubes, laryngeal masks, airways and face masks to
    deliver anesthetic agents and oxygen. To assist in the placement
    of endotracheal tubes, we provide a comprehensive and unique
    line of laryngoscope blades and handles, including standard
    halogen and fiber optic light sources.

Our regional anesthesia or acute pain management products
    include epidural, spinal and peripheral nerve block catheters.
    Nerve blocks provide pain relief during and after surgical
    procedures and help clinicians better manage each patient’s
    pain. We offer the first stimulating continuous nerve block
    catheter, the Arrow StimuCath, which confirms the positive
    placement of the catheter next to the nerve. The Flex Tip Plus
    continuous epidural catheter features a soft, flexible tip that
    helps reduce the incidence of complications, such as transient
    paresthesia and inadvertent cannulation of blood vessels or the
    dura, while improving the clinician’s ability to thread the
    catheter into the epidural space. Our Arrow TheraCath epidural
    catheter, with high compression strength for direction-ability
    and enhanced radiopacity, was designed for pain management
    procedures where increased steer-ability is important.
    Additional integral components create a range of standard and
    custom procedural kits.

During 2009, we introduced a new line of laryngeal masks, added
    a line of disposable metal laryngoscope blades to our line of
    laryngoscope products and extended our endotracheal tube product
    line. We also expanded our range of products for acute pain
    management with the introduction of new spinal kits marketed
    under the Arrow SureBlock Spinal brand.


Urology

Our line of urology products provides bladder management for
    patients in the hospital and home care markets. Our product
    portfolio consists principally of catheters (including Foley,
    intermittent, external and suprapubic), urine collectors,
    catheterization accessories and products for operative
    endurology. We believe we have significant market share in Foley
    catheters in the EMEA markets (Europe, the Middle East and
    Africa).

We also design our urine collectors, catheterization accessories
    and kits with our overall infection prevention strategy in mind.
    For example, the Rüsch MMG Closed System intermittent
    catheter is used by spinal cord injury patients to help reduce
    the likelihood of urinary tract infections.

In the United States, reimbursement regulations were implemented
    in 2009 that allow many Medicare patients to shift from a
    re-useable practice, with its inherent risk of infections, to a
    single use disposable practice. Sales of our intermittent
    catheters in the U.S. have benefited from this
    reimbursement shift.

During 2009, we introduced new intermittent catheters with
    hydrophilic coatings, a new Profile urinary Foley catheter, and
    a silicone post-operative Foley catheter all marketed under the
    Rüsch brand.

Surgical
    Care

Surgical care, which is predominantly comprised of single use
    products, represented 19 percent of Medical Segment
    revenues in 2009. Our surgical products include: ligation and
    closure products, including appliers, clips, and sutures used in
    a variety of surgical procedures; access ports used in minimally
    invasive surgical procedures including robotic surgery; and
    fluid management products used for chest drainage. Our surgical
    products also include hand-held instruments for general and
    specialty surgical procedures, In addition, we provide
    instrument management services. We market surgical products
    under the Deknatel, Pleur-evac, Pilling, Taut and Weck brand
    names.

Hem-o-lok is a unique locking polymer ligation clip, and is a
    significant part of the Weck portfolio. Hem-o-lok clips have
    special applications in robotic, laparoscopic and cardiovascular
    surgery and provide surgeons with a unique level of security and
    performance.

In 2009, we introduced the Taut Universal Seal designed for use
    with the ADAPt line of bladeless laparoscopic access devices.
    The new Taut seal provides surgeons the ability to perform
    laparoscopic procedures with variable diameter instruments,
    without flimsy diaphragm seals, lubricants that can smudge
    cameras or the need for reducer caps. Also during 2009, we added
    a new rotating head stapler and a new long endoscopic clip
    applier to our extensive line of ligation products.

Cardiac
    Care

Cardiac care products accounted for approximately 5 percent
    of Medical Segment revenues in fiscal 2009. Products in this
    category include diagnostic catheters and capital equipment,
    such as thermodilution and wedge pressure catheters; specialized
    angiographic catheters, such as Berman and Reverse Berman
    catheters; therapeutic delivery catheters, such as temporary
    pacing catheters; and intra-aortic balloon, or IAB, catheters to
    capital equipment, such as intra-aortic balloon pump, or IABP,
    consoles. IABP products are used to augment oxygen delivery to
    the cardiac muscle and reduce the oxygen demand after cardiac
    surgery, serious heart attack or interventional procedures.

The IAB and IABP product lines feature the AutoCAT 2 WAVE
    console and the FiberOptix catheter, which together utilize
    fiber optic technology for arterial pressure signal acquisition
    and enable the patented WAVE timing algorithm to support the
    broadest range of patient heart rhythms, including severely
    arrhythmic patients.


OEM and
    Development Services

Customized medical instruments, implants and components sold to
    original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, represented
    10 percent of Medical Segment revenues in 2009. Under the
    Beere Medical, KMedic, Specialized Medical Devices, Deknatel and
    TFXOEM brand names, we provide specialized product development
    services, which include design engineering, prototyping and
    testing, manufacturing, assembly and packaging. Our OEM product
    development and manufacturing facilities are located globally in
    close proximity to major medical device manufacturers in
    Germany, Ireland, Mexico and the United States.

The OEM category includes custom extrusion, catheter
    fabrication, introducer systems, sheath/dilator sets, specialty
    sutures, resins and performance fibers. We also provide machined
    and forged instrumentation for general and specialty procedures,
    Ortho-Grip

®

instrument handles and fixation devices used primarily for
    orthopedic procedures.

Medical Segment
    Revenues

The following table sets forth revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007
    by product category for the Medical Segment.




(Dollars in thousands)

Critical Care

$

939,390

$

957,129

$

578,097

Surgical Care

$

282,889

$

295,992

$

294,501

Cardiac Care

$

70,770

$

72,871

$

18,154

OEM and Development Services

$

149,829

$

158,343

$

138,142

Other

$

14,230

$

14,774

$

12,455

The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for
    2009, 2008 and 2007 by end market for the Medical Segment.




Hospitals / Healthcare Providers


%


%


%

Medical Device Manufacturers


%


%


%

Home Health


%


%


%

Markets for these products are influenced by a number of factors
    including demographics, utilization and reimbursement patterns
    in the worldwide healthcare markets. Our products are sold
    through direct sales or distribution in over 140 countries. The
    following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for 2009,
    2008 and 2007 derived from the major geographic areas we serve.




North America


%


%


%

Europe, Middle East and Africa


%


%


%

Asia, Latin America


%


%


%

Aerospace

Our Aerospace Segment businesses provide cargo handling systems
    and equipment for wide body and narrow body aircraft, cargo
    containment devices for air cargo and passenger baggage, and
    actuators for applications in commercial and military aircraft.
    We are a leading global provider of cargo handling systems and
    equipment and cargo containers for commercial aircraft. Our
    brand names, Telair International and Nordisk, are well known
    and respected on a global basis.


Sales to customers in commercial aviation markets represent
    95 percent of revenues in this segment in 2009. Markets for
    our commercial aviation products are influenced by the level of
    general economic activity, investment patterns in new aircraft,
    both passenger and cargo, cargo market trends and flight hours.
    Major locations for manufacturing and service are located in
    Germany, Norway, the United States, Sweden, Singapore and China.

Cargo-handling
    Systems and Equipment

Our cargo-handling systems include on-board automated
    cargo-loading systems for wide-body aircraft, baggage-handling
    systems for narrow body aircraft, aftermarket spare parts and
    repair services. Marketed under the Telair International brand
    name, our wide-body cargo-handling systems are sold to aircraft
    original equipment manufacturers or to airlines and air freight
    carriers as “seller

and/or

buyer
    furnished equipment” for original installations or as
    retrofits for existing equipment. Cargo-handling systems require
    a high degree of engineering sophistication.

Telair International is the exclusive supplier of main deck and
    lower deck cargo systems for the new Boeing

747-8.

Telair is also the exclusive provider of lower deck systems for
    the Airbus A330/A340-200 and 300 aircraft. Airbus is currently
    producing over 80 of these aircraft per year. Telair has been
    selected to supply cargo systems for the Airbus A350 XWB
    airframe when it enters production. Telair is also the exclusive
    supplier of sliding carpet systems for bulk-loading of narrow
    body aircraft such as 737 passenger planes. The Telair
    narrowbody system speeds loading and unloading of baggage and
    cargo to speed turnaround and increase aircraft utilization.
    This system is being installed in new 737’s for American
    Airlines and Continental Airlines, as well as in 737’s and
    the A320 family aircraft for airlines all over the world. Telair
    also provides bin loading systems for Canadair (Bombardier)
    aircraft. In addition to the design and manufacture of cargo
    systems, we provide customers with aftermarket spare parts and
    repair services for their Telair systems.

Cargo
    Containment

We design, manufacture and repair unit loading devices, or ULDs,
    which include both cargo containers and pallets. In November
    2007, we acquired Nordisk Aviation Products, expanding our
    customer base and global manufacturing and service capacity for
    cargo equipment. Nordisk globally has the widest ULD product
    line and specializes in ULDs that either reduce weight or
    maximize cargo volume by closely matching the interior contour
    of the aircraft. In 2009 Nordisk introduced the 55 kg Ultralite
    container, the lightest in its class. Weight reduction is a key
    factor in extending the range of aircraft, increasing payload
    and reducing fuel costs. Nordisk provides global support of its
    products with worldwide spare parts stocking and a network of
    affiliated repair stations.

Actuation

We manufacture and repair actuation devices and components for
    our systems and other related aircraft controls, including
    canopy and door actuators, cargo winches and flight controls.
    Teleflex actuators are used on the Boeing 747, 767 and 737
    aircraft, as well as a number of military and legacy aircraft.
    In 2009, our actuation business won a significant order to
    provide actuation devices for the U.S. Air Force

A-10

wing
    replacement program, as well as new content on the

747-8

and

747-Intercontinental.

Aerospace Segment
    Revenue Information

The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for
    2009, 2008 and 2007 by end market for the Aerospace Segment.




Commercial Aviation


%


%


%

Military, Industrial and Other


%


%


%


Commercial

Our Commercial Segment businesses principally design,
    manufacture and distribute steering and throttle controls and
    engine and drive assemblies primarily for the recreational
    marine market, and rigging products and services for oil
    exploration, dredging, mooring, construction and associated
    applications. Major manufacturing operations are located in
    Canada, the United States and Singapore.

Marine Steering
    and Throttle Controls and Engine Assemblies and Drive
    Parts

This is the largest single product category in the Commercial
    Segment, representing 68 percent of the Commercial Segment
    revenues in 2009. Products in this category include: shift and
    throttle cables; mechanical, hydraulic and electronic steering
    systems and throttle controls; engine drive parts; associated
    parts and products; and outdoor power components.

We are a leading global provider of both mechanical and
    hydraulic steering systems for recreational powerboats and
    mechanical, hydraulic, and electronic throttle controls. We also
    are a leading distributor of engine assemblies and drive parts,
    which are marketed under the well-known Sierra brand name. Our
    marine products are sold to OEMs, such as SeaRay, Bayliner,
    Volvo Penta, Mercury and Yamaha; and to the aftermarket through
    distributors, dealers and retail outlets and are widely
    available at marinas and retail outlets such as West Marine and
    Bass Pro Shops. Our major product brands include Teleflex
    Marine, TFXtreme, SeaStar, BayStar and Sierra.

We also manufacture and sell heaters that provide cold weather
    auxiliary heating solutions for commercial vehicles under the
    Proheat name and burner units that provide a heat source for
    military field feeding appliances.

Rigging Products
    and Services

Products in this category represented 32 percent of
    Commercial Segment revenues in 2009. Products include customized
    heavy-duty wire rope, wire rope assemblies, high tensile
    synthetic rope, synthetic assemblies and related rigging
    hardware. Our markets include oil drilling, marine
    transportation, marine construction and material handling. With
    strain testing capabilities, we also help our customers meet new
    safety legislation and regulations for moorings. In 2007, we
    enhanced our product offerings in this business through our
    acquisition of Southern Wire Corporation, a prominent wholesale
    provider of rigging services. With facilities in Texas,
    Louisiana, Nevada, Missouri, and Mississippi, our rigging
    products and services business serves over 1,500 active accounts.

Commercial
    Segment Revenue Information

The following table sets forth revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007
    by product category for the Commercial Segment.




(Dollars in thousands)

Marine Driver Controls and Engine and Drive Parts

$

168,125

$

212,350

$

253,843

Rigging Products and Services

$

79,703

$

101,454

$

82,077

The following table sets forth the percentage of revenues for
    2009, 2008 and 2007 by end market for the Commercial Segment.




Recreational Marine


%


%


%

Commercial Vehicles


%


%


%

Military


%

—

—

Rigging Products and Services


%


%


%


GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION

Government agencies in a number of countries regulate our
    products and the products sold by our customers utilizing our
    products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and
    government agencies in other countries regulate the approval,
    manufacturing, and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare
    products. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the
    European Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacture and
    sale of some of our aerospace products and license the operation
    of our repair stations. For more information, see Item 1A.
    “Risk Factors.”

COMPETITION

Medical
    Segment

The medical devices industry is highly competitive. We compete
    with many companies, ranging from small

start-up

enterprises to companies that are larger and more established
    than us with access to significant financial resources.
    Furthermore, new product development and technological change
    characterize the market in which we compete. We must continue to
    develop and acquire new products and technologies for our
    Medical Segment businesses to remain competitive. We believe
    that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority
    and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product
    reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and
    cost-effectiveness.

Aerospace
    and Commercial Segments

The businesses within our Aerospace and Commercial segments
    generally face significant competition from competitors of
    varying sizes. We believe that our competitive position depends
    on the technical competence and creative ability of our
    engineering personnel, the know-how and skill of our
    manufacturing personnel, and the strength and scope of our
    sales, service and distribution networks. Competitors of the
    businesses with our Aerospace Segment include Goodrich
    Corporation, AAR Corp and Driessen Aerospace Group. Competition
    for our Commercial business tends to be fragmented.

SALES AND
    MARKETING

Medical
    Segment

Our medical products are sold directly to hospitals, healthcare
    providers, distributors and to original equipment manufacturers
    of medical devices through our own sales forces and through
    independent representatives and independent distributor networks.

Aerospace
    and Commercial Segments

Products sold to the aerospace market are sold through our own
    field representatives and distributors. The majority of our
    Commercial Segment products are sold through a direct sales
    force of field representatives and technical specialists. Marine
    driver controls and engine and drive parts are sold directly to
    boat builders and engine manufacturers as well as through
    distributors, dealers and retail outlets to reach recreational
    boaters. Rigging products and services includes both a retail
    business and a wholesale business, both of which sell through a
    direct sales force.

BACKLOG

Medical
    Segment

Most of our medical products are sold to hospitals or healthcare
    providers on orders calling for delivery within a few days or
    weeks, with longer order times for products sold to medical
    device manufacturers. Therefore, the backlog of our Medical
    Segment orders is not indicative of probable revenues in any
    future

12-month

period.


Aerospace
    Segment

As of December 31, 2009, our backlog of firm orders for our
    Aerospace Segment was $45 million, of which we expect
    approximately 95 percent to be filled in 2010. Our backlog
    for our Aerospace Segment on December 31, 2008 was
    $68 million.

Commercial
    Segment

Standard Commercial Segment products are typically shipped
    between a few days and three months after receipt of order.
    Therefore, the backlog of such orders is not indicative of
    probable revenues in any future

12-month

period.

PATENTS AND
    TRADEMARKS

We own a portfolio of patents, patents pending and trademarks.
    We also license various patents and trademarks. Patents for
    individual products extend for varying periods according to the
    date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in
    the various countries where patent protection is obtained.
    Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of
    time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the marks.
    All capitalized product names throughout this document are
    trademarks owned by, or licensed to, us or our subsidiaries.
    Although these have been of value and are expected to continue
    to be of value in the future, we do not consider any single
    patent or trademark, except for the Teleflex and Arrow brands,
    to be essential to the operation of our business.

SUPPLIERS AND
    MATERIALS

Materials used in the manufacture of our products are purchased
    from a large number of suppliers in diverse geographic
    locations. We are not dependent on any single supplier for a
    substantial amount of the materials used or components supplied
    for our overall operations. Most of the materials and components
    we use are available from multiple sources, and where practical,
    we attempt to identify alternative suppliers. Volatility in
    commodity markets, particularly steel and plastic resins, can
    have a significant impact on the cost of producing certain of
    our products. We cannot be assured of successfully passing these
    cost increases through to all of our customers, particularly
    original equipment manufacturers.

RESEARCH AND
    DEVELOPMENT

We are engaged in both internal and external research and
    development in our Medical, Aerospace and Commercial segments.
    Nearly 80% of our research and development costs occur in our
    Medical business in connection with our efforts to bring
    innovative new products to the markets we serve, and to enhance
    the clinical value, ease of use, safety and reliability of our
    existing product lines. Our research and development efforts
    support our strategic objectives to provide safe and effective
    products that reduce infections, improve patient and clinician
    safety, enhance patient outcomes and enable less invasive
    procedures.

Research and development in our Aerospace and Commercial
    businesses is focused on the development of lighter, more
    durable and more automated systems and products that facilitate
    cargo loading and containment on commercial aircraft and improve
    the performance of recreational boats.

We also acquire or license products and technologies that are
    consistent with our strategic objectives and enhance our ability
    to provide a full range of product and service options to our
    customers.

SEASONALITY

Portions of our revenues, particularly in the Commercial and
    Medical segments, are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Revenues
    in the marine aftermarket generally increase in the second
    quarter as boat owners prepare their watercraft for the upcoming
    season. Incidence of flu and other disease patterns as well as
    the frequency of elective medical procedures affect revenues
    related to disposable medical products.


EMPLOYEES

We employed approximately 12,700 full-time and temporary
    employees at December 31, 2009. Of these employees,
    approximately 3,900 were employed in the United States and 8,800
    in countries outside of the United States. Less than 8% percent
    of our employees in the United States were covered by union
    contracts. We have government-mandated collective-bargaining
    arrangements or union contracts that cover employees in other
    countries. We believe we have good relationships with our
    employees.

INVESTOR
    INFORMATION

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934. Therefore, we file reports, proxy
    statements and other information with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, proxy statements, and
    other information may be obtained by visiting the Public
    Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE,
    Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at

1-800-SEC-0330.

In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site
    (

http://www.sec.gov

)
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements and
    other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC.

You can access financial and other information in the Investors
    section of our website which can be accessed at

www.teleflex.com

. We make available through our website,
    free of charge, copies of our annual report on

Form 10-K,

quarterly reports on

Form 10-Q,

current reports on

Form 8-K

and amendments to those reports filed or furnished under
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as
    soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or
    furnishing such material to the SEC. The information on our
    website is not part of this annual report on

Form 10-K.

The reference to our website address is intended to be an
    inactive textual reference only.

We are a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1943. Our
    executive offices are located at 155 South Limerick Road,
    Limerick, PA 19468. Our telephone number is

(610) 948-5100.

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS

The names and ages of all of our executive officers as of
    February 24, 2010 and the positions and offices held by
    each such officer are as follows:

Name

Age

Positions and Offices with Company

Jeffrey P. Black


Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director

Richard A. Meier


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Laurence G. Miller


Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

R. Ernest Waaser


President — Medical

John Suddarth


President — Aerospace and Commercial

Vince Northfield


Executive Vice President, Global Operations — Medical

Mr. Black has been Chairman since May 2006, Chief Executive
    Officer since May 2002 and President since December 2000. He has
    been a Director since November 2002. Mr. Black was
    President of the Teleflex Industrial Group from July 2000 to
    December 2000 and President of Teleflex Fluid Systems from
    January 1999 to July 2000.

Mr. Meier joined Teleflex as Executive Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer in January 2010. Prior to joining
    Teleflex, Mr. Meier held various executive-level positions
    with Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., a global ophthalmic medical
    device company, from April 2002 to May 2009. He most recently
    served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Advanced
    Medical Optics from November 2007 to May 2009.


Mr. Miller has been Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary since February 2008. From November 2004 to
    February 2008, Mr. Miller was Senior Vice President,
    General Counsel and Secretary. From November 2001 until November
    2004, he was Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel
    for the Food & Support Services division of Aramark
    Corporation, a diversified management services company providing
    food, refreshment, facility and other support services for a
    variety of organizations.

Mr. Waaser has been the President of Teleflex Medical since
    October 2006. Prior to joining Teleflex, Mr. Waaser served
    as President and Chief Executive Officer of Hill-Rom, Inc., a
    manufacturer and provider of products and services for the
    healthcare industry, including patient room equipment,
    therapeutic wound and pulmonary care products, biomedical
    equipment services and communications systems, from 2001 to 2005.

Mr. Suddarth has been the President of our Aerospace and
    Commercial segments since March 2009. From July 2004 to March
    2009, Mr. Suddarth was the President of Teleflex Aerospace.
    From 2003 to 2004, Mr. Suddarth was the President of
    Techsonic Industries Inc., a former subsidiary of Teleflex that
    manufactured underwater sonar and video viewing equipment, which
    was divested in 2004.

Mr. Northfield has been the Executive Vice President for
    Global Operations, Teleflex Medical since September 2008. From
    2005 to 2008, Mr. Northfield was the President of Teleflex
    Commercial. From 2004 to 2005, Mr. Northfield was the
    President of Teleflex Automotive and the Vice President of
    Strategic Development. Mr. Northfield held the position of
    Vice President of Strategic Development from 2001 to 2004.

Our officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors.
    Each officer serves at the pleasure of the Board until their
    respective successors have been elected.
