
10-K405


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                           Washington, D. C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1998
                        Commission File Number 1-3761

                         TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
            -----------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

              Delaware                            75-0289970      
      ------------------------       ------------------------------------
      (State of Incorporation)       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

          8505 Forest Lane, P.O. Box 660199, Dallas, Texas 75266-0199
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   (Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code 972-995-3773

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange on
Title of each class                                     which registered
- -----------------------------                        ------------------------
Common Stock, par value $1.00                        New York Stock Exchange
                                                     The Swiss Exchange 
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                      New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No     

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K.     X

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the 
Registrant was approximately $33,833,000,000 as of December 31, 1998.


                                  390,679,959
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 1998)

Parts I, II and IV hereof incorporate information by reference to the 
Registrant's 1998 annual report to stockholders.  Part III hereof incorporates 
information by reference to the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1999 
annual meeting of stockholders. 


                                      PART I

ITEM 1.   Business. 

Semiconductor
- -------------

Texas Instruments Incorporated ("TI" or the "company," including subsidiaries 
except where the context indicates otherwise) is a global semiconductor 
company and the world's leading designer and supplier of digital signal 
processors and analog integrated circuits, the engines driving the 
digitization of electronics.  These two types of semiconductor products work 
together in digital electronic devices such as digital cellular phones.  
Analog technology converts analog signals like sound, light, temperature and 
pressure into the digital language of zeros and ones, which can then be 
processed in real-time by a digital signal processor.  Analog integrated 
circuits also translate digital signals back to analog.  Digital signal 
processors and analog integrated circuits enable a wide range of new products 
and features for TI's more than 30,000 customers in commercial, industrial and 
consumer markets.

TI also is a world leader in the design and manufacturing of other 
semiconductor products.  Those products include standard logic, application-
specific integrated circuits, reduced instruction-set computing 
microprocessors, and microcontrollers.

The semiconductor business comprised 80% of TI's 1998 revenues when the 
divested memory business is excluded.  TI's semiconductor products are used in 
a diverse range of electronic systems, including digital cell phones, 
computers, printers, hard disk drives, modems, networking equipment, digital 
cameras and video recorders, motor controls, autos, and home appliances.  
Products are sold primarily to original-equipment manufacturers and through 
distributors.  TI's semiconductor patent portfolio has been established as an 
ongoing contributor to semiconductor revenues.  Revenues generated from sales 
to TI's top three semiconductor customers accounted for approximately 24% of 
total semiconductor revenues in 1998. 

The semiconductor business is intensely competitive, subject to rapid 
technological change and pricing pressures, and requires high rates of 
investment.  TI is the leading supplier of digital signal processors and analog 
integrated circuits, yet faces strong competition in all of its semiconductor 
product lines.  The rapid pace of change and technological breakthroughs 
constantly create new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups, 
which can quickly render existing technologies less valuable.

In digital signal processors, TI competes with a growing number of large and 
small companies, both U.S.-based and international.  New product development 
capabilities, applications support, software knowledge and advanced technology 
are the primary competitive factors in this business. 

The market for analog integrated circuits is highly fragmented.  TI competes 
with many large and small companies, both U.S.-based and international.  
Primary competitive factors in this business are the availability of innovative
designs and designers, a broad range of process technologies and applications 
support and, particularly in the standard products area, price. 


                                       -2-

Demand for Digital Signal Processors/Analog Integrated Circuits
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

TI has undertaken a business strategy that focuses on developing and marketing 
digital signal processors and analog integrated circuits.  TI has divested 
certain of its businesses and acquired others and invested its resources with 
the view of furthering its focus on these products.  While TI believes that 
focusing its efforts on digital signal processors and analog integrated 
circuits offers the best opportunity for TI to achieve its strategic goals and 
that TI has developed, and will continue to develop, a wide range of innovative
and technologically advanced products, the results of TI's operations may be 
adversely affected in the future if the demand for digital signal processors 
and analog integrated circuits decreases or this market grows at a pace 
significantly less than that projected by management. 


Acquisitions and Divestitures
- -----------------------------

From time to time TI considers acquisitions and divestitures that may 
strengthen its business portfolio.  TI may effect one or more of these 
transactions at such time or times as it determines to be appropriate. In 
1998, as TI narrowed its focus to digital signal processors and analog 
integrated circuits, it acquired technology companies that brought unique 
expertise to these core product areas.  In the first quarter, TI acquired GO 
DSP Corporation, a developer of software development tools for digital signal 
processors; Spectron Microsystems, a developer of real-time operating software 
for use in digital signal processing applications; and Oasix and Arisix 
corporations, both digital integrated circuit design centers for hard disk 
drive products.  In the fourth quarter, TI acquired certain assets of Adaptec, 
Inc., a developer of hardware and software for the high-end hard disk drive 
market, a market that increasingly will use digital signal processors in 
addition to analog integrated circuits. 

In addition, in 1998, TI divested its dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) 
semiconductor operation.  The business was sold in the third quarter to Micron 
Technology, Inc., and included TI's wholly owned manufacturing facilities in 
Avezzano, Italy, and Richardson, Texas, its joint-venture interests in Japan 
and Singapore, and an assembly and test operation in Singapore.  Revenues, 
profits and fixed assets for the divested memory business are included in 
"Divested Activities" in the note to the financial statements captioned 
"Business Segment and Geographic Area Data" on pages 29-31 of TI's 1998 annual 
report to stockholders.


Other TI Businesses
- -------------------

In addition to semiconductors, TI has two other principal segments.  The 
largest, representing 12% of TI's 1998 revenues when the memory business is 
excluded, is Materials & Controls (M&C).  This business sells electrical and 
electronic controls, electronic connectors, sensors, radio-frequency 
identification systems and clad metals into commercial and industrial markets.
Typically the top supplier in targeted product areas, M&C faces strong 
multinational and regional competitors. The primary competitive factors in 
this business are product reliability, manufacturing costs, and engineering 
expertise.  The products of this business are sold directly to original-


                                       -3-
equipment manufacturers and through distributors.  Revenues generated from 
sales to TI's top three M&C customers accounted for approximately 15% of total 
M&C revenues in 1998.

Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) represents 6% of TI's 1998 
revenues when the memory business is excluded, and is a leading supplier of 
educational and graphing calculators.  This business sells primarily through 
retailers and to schools through instructional dealers.  TI's principal 
competitors in this business are several Japanese companies.  Technology 
expertise, price and infrastructure for education and market understanding are 
primary competitive factors in this business.  Revenues generated from sales 
to TI's top three E&PS customers accounted for approximately 26% of total E&PS 
revenues in 1998.

In addition, TI continues to invest in digital imaging, an emerging business 
that produces micro-mirror-based devices that enable revolutionary brightness 
and clarity in large-screen video displays.  The primary sales route is 
directly to original-equipment manufacturers.  TI faces competition in this 
business primarily from a competing technology known as liquid crystal 
displays from Asian manufacturers. Primary competitive factors in this 
business are price, brightness and performance of the display, and in some 
applications, size and weight.


General Information
- -------------------

TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales 
operations in more than 25 countries.  TI's largest geographic markets are in 
the United States, Asia, Japan and Europe.  TI has been in operation since 1930.

The financial information with respect to TI's business segments 
and operations outside the United States, which is contained in the note to 
the financial statements captioned "Business Segment and Geographic Area Data" 
on pages 29-31 of TI's 1998 annual report to stockholders, is incorporated 
herein by reference to such annual report.


Backlog
- -------
The dollar amount of backlog of orders believed by TI to be firm was $1233 
million as of December 31, 1998 and $1623 million as of December 31, 1997. 
TI's backlog does not represent actual revenues and is only an indication of 
future revenues which may be entered on the books of account of TI.  Backlog 
orders are, under certain circumstances, subject to cancellation by the 
purchaser without penalty and do not reflect any potential adjustments for 
price decreases.


Raw Materials
- -------------
TI  purchases materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers. The 
materials, parts and supplies essential to TI's business are generally 
available at present and TI believes at this time that such materials, parts 
and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future.



                                       -4-
Patents and Trademarks
- ----------------------
TI  owns many patents in the United States and other countries in fields 
relating to its business.  The company  has developed a strong, broad-based 
patent portfolio.  TI also has several agreements with other companies 
involving license rights and anticipates that other licenses may be negotiated 
in the future.  TI  does not consider its business materially dependent upon 
any one patent or patent license, although taken as a whole, the rights of TI  
and the products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important 
to TI's business. 

TI owns trademarks that are used in the conduct of its business.  These 
trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which are "Texas 
Instruments" and TI's corporate monogram. 


Research and Development
- ------------------------
TI's research and development expense was $1206 million in 1998, compared with 
$1536 million in 1997 and $1181 million in 1996.  Included is a charge for the 
value of in-process research and development of $25 million in 1998 as a result
of two business acquisitions; $461 million in 1997 as a result of the 
acquisition of Amati Communications Corporation; and $192 million in 1996 as a 
result of the acquisition of Silicon Systems, Inc. 


Seasonality
- -----------
TI's revenues and operating results are subject to some seasonal variation. 


Employees
- ---------
The information concerning the number of persons employed by TI at December 31,
1998 on page 35 of TI's 1998 annual report to stockholders is incorporated 
herein by reference to such annual report.


Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations
- ------------------------------------------------------------

You should read the following cautionary statements in conjunction with 
discussions of factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of TI's filings 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in materials 
incorporated by reference in these filings.  These cautionary statements are 
intended to highlight certain factors that may affect the financial condition 
and results of operations of TI and are not meant to be an exhaustive 
discussion of risks that apply to companies with broad international 
operations, such as TI.  Like other businesses, TI is susceptible to 
macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the 
general economic climate and performance of TI or its customers.  Similarly, 
the price of TI's securities is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in 
general market conditions, differences in TI's results of operations from 
estimates and projections generated by the investment community and other 
factors beyond TI's control.




                                       -5-
     Significant Delay in the Recovery or Worsening of the Market for 
     ----------------------------------------------------------------
     Semiconductors.  
     ---------------

     TI's semiconductor business represents its largest business segment and 
the principal source of its revenues.  The semiconductor market has 
historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns.  The 
weak semiconductor market in 1998 had an adverse effect on the demand for TI's 
semiconductor products and resulted in a decrease in revenues from TI's sale of
semiconductors compared to 1997.  A significant delay in the recovery of, or a 
prolonged weakening of, the semiconductor market may adversely affect TI's 
results of operations and have an adverse effect on the market price of its 
securities.

     Dependence on Technology and New Product Development and Marketability.  
     -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     TI's results of operations depend in part upon its ability to successfully
develop and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological 
environment.  TI requires significant capital to develop new technologies and 
products to meet changing customer demands that, in turn, may result in 
shortened product lifecycles.   Moreover, expenditures for technology and 
product development are generally made before the commercial viability for such
developments can be assured.  As a result, there can be no assurance that TI 
will successfully develop and market these new products, that the products TI 
does develop and market will be well received by customers or that TI will 
realize a return on the capital expended to develop such products.

     Competition
     -----------

     TI faces intense technological and pricing competition in the markets in 
which it operates.  TI expects that the level of this competition will increase
in the future from large, established semiconductor and related product 
companies, as well as from emerging companies serving niche markets also served
by TI.  Certain of TI's competitors possess sufficient financial, technical and
management resources to develop and market products that may compete favorably 
against those products of TI that currently offer technological and/or price 
advantages over competitive products.  Competition results in price and product 
development pressures, which may result in reduced profit margins and lost 
business opportunities in the event that TI is unable to match price declines 
or technological, product, applications support, software or manufacturing 
advances of its competitors.

     Intellectual Property Rights
     ----------------------------

     TI benefits from royalties generated from various license agreements that 
will be in effect through the year 2005.  Future royalty revenues and access 
to world-wide markets depend on the continued strength of TI's intellectual 
property portfolio.  TI actively enforces and protects its intellectual 
property rights, but there can be no assurance that TI's efforts will be 
adequate to prevent the misappropriation or improper use of the protected 
technology.  Moreover, there can be no assurance that, as TI's business expands
into new areas, TI will be able to independently develop the technology, 
software or know-how necessary to conduct its business and may have to rely 


                                       -6-
increasingly on licensed technology from others.  To the extent that TI relies 
on licenses from others, there can be no assurance that it will be able to 
obtain all of the licenses it desires in the future on terms it considers 
reasonable or at all.

     Decline in Demand for Products in Key Markets
     ---------------------------------------------

     TI's customer base includes companies in a wide range of industries, but 
TI generates a significant amount of revenues from sales to customers in the 
telecommunications and computer industries.  Within these industries, a large 
portion of TI revenues is generated by the sale of digital signal processors 
and analog integrated circuits to customers in the cellular phone, modem and 
hard disk drive segments of these industries.  A significant decline in any 
one or several of these end-user markets could have a material adverse effect 
on the demand for TI's products and its results of operations.

     Impact of Year 2000 Issue
     -------------------------

     As discussed on pages 37-38 of TI's 1998 annual report to  stockholders, 
since 1995 TI has been addressing Year 2000 issues that result from the use of 
two digit, rather than four digit, year dates in software.  TI has  essentially
completed the assessment phase of its Year 2000 effort in the program areas of 
Information Technology, Physical Plant and Products.  Assessment in the 
Extended Enterprise program area is ongoing.  There can be no assurance, 
however, that TI has fully and accurately assessed its Year 2000 readiness or 
the effectiveness of its corrective actions, nor can there be any assurance 
that TI's customers and suppliers will timely complete their respective Year 
2000 efforts and avoid Year 2000 disruption.

     International Operations
     ------------------------

     TI operates in 25 countries worldwide and in 1998 derived in excess of 68%
of its revenues from sales to locations outside the United States.  Operating 
internationally exposes TI to changes in the laws or policies, as well as the 
general economic conditions, of the various countries in which it operates, 
which could result in an adverse effect on TI's business operations in such 
countries and its results of operations. Also, as discussed in more detail on 
pages 22 and 38-39 of TI's 1998 annual report to stockholders, TI uses forward 
currency exchange contracts to minimize the adverse earnings impact from the 
effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the company's non-U.S. dollar net 
balance sheet exposures.  Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar 
strengthens in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which TI transacts 
business, the remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse
effect on TI's non-U.S. business. 


     Dependence on Certain Customers
     -------------------------------

     While TI generates revenues from thousands of customers worldwide, the 
loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by one or more of its top 
customers, including curtailments due to a change in the sourcing policies or 
practices of these customers, may adversely affect TI's results of operations.



                                       -7-
     Dependence on Key Personnel
     ---------------------------

     TI's continued success depends on the retention and recruitment of skilled
personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel.  
Experienced personnel in the electronics industry are in high demand and 
competition for their skills is intense.  There can be no assurance that TI 
will be able to successfully retain and recruit the key personnel that it 
requires.


Available Information
- ---------------------

TI files annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other 
information with the SEC.  You may read and copy any reports, statements and 
other information filed by TI at the SEC's public reference rooms at 450 Fifth 
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549, or at the SEC offices in New York, New 
York and Chicago, Illinois.  Please call (800) SEC-0330 for further information 
on the public reference rooms.  TI's filings are also available to the public 
from commercial document retrieval services and at the web site maintained by 
the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.





































                                       -8-
ITEM 2.   Properties.

TI's principal executive offices are located at 8505 Forest Lane, Dallas, 
Texas.  TI owns and leases plants in the United States and 11 other countries 
for manufacturing and related purposes.  The following table indicates the 
general location of TI's principal plants and the business segments which make 
major use of them.  Except as otherwise indicated, the principal plants are 
owned by TI.

                                        Materials               
                       Semiconductor   & Controls       E&PS    
                       -------------   ------------     ----
Dallas, Texas(1)              X             X             X
Houston, Texas                X
Sherman, Texas(1)(2)          X
Santa Cruz, California        X
Attleboro,                    X             X
  Massachusetts
Freising, Germany             X             X
Baguio,                       X
  Philippines(3)
Hiji, Japan                   X
Kuala Lumpur,                 X             X
  Malaysia(4)   
Miho, Japan                   X
Taipei, Taiwan                X
Aguascalientes, Mexico        X             X
- --------------------
(1)  Certain plants or portions thereof in Dallas and Sherman are leased to 
Raytheon Company or Raytheon-related entities in connection with the sale in 
1997 of TI's defense systems and electronics business. 
(2)  Leased.
(3)  Owned on leased land.
(4)  Approximately half of this site is owned on leased land; the remainder is 
leased.

TI's facilities in the United States contained approximately 17,700,000 square 
feet as of December 31, 1998, of which approximately 3,300,000 square feet were
leased.  TI's facilities outside the United States contained approximately 
5,600,000 square feet as of December 31, 1998, of which approximately 1,300,000
square feet were leased. 

TI believes that its existing properties are in good condition and suitable for
the manufacture of its products.  At the end of 1998, the company utilized 
substantially all of the space in its facilities. 

Leases covering TI's leased facilities expire at varying dates generally within
the next 10 years.  TI anticipates no difficulty in either retaining occupancy 
through lease renewals, month-to-month occupancy or purchases of leased 
facilities, or replacing the leased facilities with equivalent facilities.


ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings.


Beginning May 1, 1998, TI filed lawsuits in United States District Courts in 
Texas and in courts in the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, France, Germany 


                                       -9-
and Japan against Hyundai Electronics Industries Co., Ltd. or related entities 
(collectively, "Hyundai") seeking injunctive relief for alleged infringement 
of over a dozen of TI's patents relating to the manufacture and sale of 
semiconductor devices, including DRAMs.  Hyundai responded by filing lawsuits 
in United States District Courts in Texas and Delaware, seeking injunctive 
relief against TI for alleged infringement of Hyundai's patents relating to the
manufacture and sale of semiconductor devices, including DRAMs.

Approximately $300 million of grants from the Italian government to TI's former
memory operations in Italy are being reviewed in the ordinary course by 
government auditors.  TI understands that these auditors are questioning 
whether some of the grants were applied to purposes outside the scope of the 
grants.  TI's deferred gain on the sale of its memory business may be reduced 
to the extent that any grants are determined to have been misapplied.  Also, TI
understands that an Italian prosecutor is conducting a criminal investigation 
concerning a portion of the grants relating to specified research and 
development activities.  The company believes that the grants were obtained and
used in compliance with applicable law and contractual obligations.

TI is involved in various investigations and proceedings conducted by the 
federal Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental 
agencies regarding disposal of waste materials.  Although the factual 
situations and the progress of each of these matters differ, the company 
believes that the amount of its liability will not have a material adverse 
effect upon its financial position or results of operations and, in most cases,
TI's liability will be limited to sharing clean-up or other remedial costs with
other potentially responsible parties.


ITEM 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

          Not applicable.


                                    PART II


ITEM 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder 
          Matters.

The information which is contained in the note to the financial statements 
captioned "Common Stock Prices and Dividends" on page 41 of TI's 1998 annual 
report to stockholders, and the information concerning the number of 
stockholders of record at December 31, 1998 on page 35 of such annual report, 
are incorporated herein by reference to such annual report. 


ITEM 6.   Selected Financial Data.

The "Summary of Selected Financial Data" for the years 1994 through 1998 which 
appears on page 35 of TI's 1998 annual report to stockholders is incorporated 
herein by reference to such annual report.







                                       -10-
ITEM 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
          Results of Operations.

The information contained under the headings "Financial Highlights," 
"Semiconductor," "Materials & Controls," "Educational & Productivity 
Solutions," "Digital Imaging" and the first two paragraphs under the heading 
"Building a Real Time Advantage" on pages 3-4, and the information contained 
under the caption "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations" on pages 36-41 of TI's 1998 annual report to 
stockholders are incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.


ITEM 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Information concerning market risk is contained on pages 38 and 39 of TI's 
1998 annual report to stockholders and is incorporated by reference to such 
annual report.


ITEM 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The consolidated financial statements of the company at December 31, 1998 and 
1997 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998, and 
the report thereon of the independent auditors, on pages 14-34 of TI's 1998 
annual report to stockholders, are incorporated herein by reference to such 
annual report.

The "Quarterly Financial Data" on pages 42-43 of TI's 1998 annual report to 
stockholders is also incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.


ITEM 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
          Financial Disclosure.

Not applicable.


                                   PART III


ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

The information with respect to directors' names, ages, positions, 
term of office and periods of service, which is contained under the caption 
"Nominees for Directorship" in the company's proxy statement for the 1999 
annual meeting of stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference to such 
proxy statement.












                                       -11-
The following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the executive 
officers of the company and the positions or offices with the company presently
held by each person named: 

       Name                   Age                     Position


Richard J. Agnich             55          Senior Vice President, Secretary
                                          and General Counsel

William A. Aylesworth         56          Senior Vice President,
                                          Treasurer and Chief Financial
                                          Officer 

Thomas J. Engibous            46          Director; Chairman of the 
                                          Board, President and Chief Executive
                                          Officer 

Stephen H. Leven              47          Senior Vice President

Keh-Shew Lu                   52          Senior Vice President

John Scarisbrick              46          Senior Vice President

Richard Schaar                53          Senior Vice President
                                          (President, Educational &
                                          Productivity Solutions)

M. Samuel Self                59          Senior Vice President and Controller
                                          (Chief Accounting Officer)

Elwin L. Skiles, Jr.          57          Senior Vice President

Richard K. Templeton          40          Executive Vice President 
                                          (President, Semiconductor)

Teresa L. West                38          Senior Vice President

Delbert A. Whitaker           55          Senior Vice President

Thomas Wroe                   48          Senior Vice President
                                          (President, Materials & Controls)


The term of office of the above listed officers is from the date of their 
election until their successor shall have been elected and qualified, and the 
most recent date of election of each of them was April 16, 1998.  Messrs. 
Agnich, Aylesworth, Engibous and Skiles have served as officers of the company 
for more than five years.  Mr. Templeton has served as an officer of the 
company since 1996, and he has been an employee of the company for more than 
five years.  Ms. West and Messrs. Leven, Lu, Scarisbrick, Schaar, Self, 
Whitaker and Wroe have served as officers of the company since March 19, 1998 
and have been employees of the company for more than five years.






                                       -12-
ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation.

The information which is contained under the caption "Directors Compensation," 
"Executive Compensation" in the company's proxy statement for the 1999 annual 
meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy 
statement.


ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

The information concerning (a) the only persons that have reported beneficial 
ownership of more than 5% of the common stock of TI, and (b) the ownership of 
TI's common stock by the Chief Executive Officer and the five other most highly
compensated executive officers, and all executive officers and directors as a 
group, which is contained under the caption "Voting Securities" in the 
company's proxy statement for the 1999 annual meeting of stockholders, is 
incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.  The information 
concerning ownership of TI's common stock by each of the directors, which is 
contained under the caption "Nominees for Directorship" in such proxy 
statement, is also incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.




ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

Not applicable.






                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K. 

          (a)  1 and 2.  Financial Statements and Financial Statement 
                         Schedules:

          The financial statements and financial statement schedules are 
          listed in the index on page 21 hereof.

               3.  Exhibits:

             Designation of
              Exhibit in
              this Report              Description of Exhibit
            --------------   -------------------------------------------------

                3(a)         Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the 
                             Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
                             3(a) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                             10-K for the year 1993).




                                       -13-
                3(b)         Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate 
                             of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated 
                             by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Registrant's 
                             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

                3(c)         Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate 
                             of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated 
                             by reference to Exhibit 3(c) to the Registrant's 
                             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

                3(d)         Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate 
                             of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated 
                             by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's 
                             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                             ended June 30, 1996).

                3(e)         Certificate of Ownership Merging Texas 
                             Instruments Automation Controls, Inc. into the 
                             Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
                             3(e) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                             10-K for the year 1993).

                3(f)         Certificate of Elimination of Designations of 
                             Preferred Stock of the Registrant (incorporated 
                             by reference to Exhibit 3(f) to the Registrant's 
                             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

                3(g)         Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging 
                             Tiburon Systems, Inc. into the Registrant 
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(g) to the 
                             Registrant's Registration Statement No. 
                             333-41919 on Form S-8).

                3(h)         Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging 
                             Tartan, Inc. into the Registrant (incorporated by 
                             reference to Exhibit 4(h) to the Registrant's 
                             Registration Statement No. 333-41919 on Form 
                             S-8).

                3(i)         Certificate of Designation relating to the 
                             Registrant's Participating Cumulative Preferred 
                             Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) 
                             to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                             for the quarter ended September 30, 1998).

                3(j)         Certificate of Elimination of Designation of 
                             Preferred Stock of the Registrant.

                3(k)         By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by 
                             reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's 
                             Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
                             December 4, 1997).

                4(a)(i)      Rights Agreement dated as of June 18, 1998
                             between the Registrant and Harris Trust and 
                             Savings Bank as Rights Agent, which includes as
                             Exhibit B the form of Rights Certificate 


                                       -14-
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the 
                             Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A 
                             dated June 23, 1998).
                             
                4(a)(ii)     Amendment dated as of September 18, 1998 to the 
                             Rights Agreement (incorporated by reference to 
                             Exhibit 2 to the Registrant's Amendment No. 1 to 
                             Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated September
                             23, 1998).

                4(b)         The Registrant agrees to provide the Commission, 
                             upon request, copies of instruments defining the 
                             rights of holders of long-term debt of the 
                             Registrant and its subsidiaries.

                10(a)(i)     TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by 
                             reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the 
                             Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
                             year 1994).*

                10(a)(ii)    Amendment No. 1 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(iii) 
                             to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                             for the year 1994).*

                10(a)(iii)   Amendment No. 2 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
                             (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's 
                             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                             ended June 30, 1997).*

                10(a)(iv)    Amendment No. 3 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan
                             (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's 
                             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                             ended September 30, 1997).*

                10(b)        Texas Instruments Long-Term Incentive Plan 
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) 
                             to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                             for the year 1993).*

                10(c)        Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the 
                             Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
                             the quarter ended June 30, 1996).*

                10(d)        Texas Instruments Executive Officer Performance 
                             Plan (incorporated by reference to the 
                             Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
                             the quarter ended March 31, 1997).*

                10(e)        Texas Instruments Restricted Stock Unit Plan for 
                             Directors (incorporated by reference to 
                             Exhibit 10(e) to the Registrant's Quarterly 
                             Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
                             March 31, 1998).




                                       -15-
                10(f)        Texas Instruments Directors Deferred Compensation 
                             Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) 
                             to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
                             for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).

                10(g)        Texas Instruments Stock Option Plan for 
                             Non-Employee Directors.

                10(h)        Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of January 4, 
                             1997 between the Registrant and Raytheon Company
                             (exhibits and schedules omitted) (incorporated by
                             reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's 
                             Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4, 
                             1997).

                10(i)        Acquisition Agreement dated as of June 18, 1998 
                             between Texas Instruments Incorporated and Micron
                             Technology, Inc. (exhibit C omitted) (incorporated
                             by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's 
                             Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 18, 1998).

                10(j)        Second Amendment to Acquisition Agreement dated as
                             of September 30, 1998 between Texas Instruments 
                             Incorporated and Micron Technology, Inc. 
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the 
                             Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
                             October 15, 1998).

                10(k)        Securities Rights and Restrictions Agreement dated
                             as of September 30, 1998 between Texas Instruments
                             Incorporated and Micron Technology, Inc.

                11           Computation of Earnings Per Common and Dilutive
                             Potential Common Share.

                12           Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

                13           Portions of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to 
                             Stockholders Incorporated by Reference Herein.

                21           List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

                23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

                24           Powers of Attorney.

                27           Financial Data Schedule.

- ----------------
*Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:
                              
          TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
          10(a)(ii) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
          year 1994).

          Amendment No. 1 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10(a)(iii) to Registrant's Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K for the year 1994).

                                       -16-

          Amendment No. 2 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
          quarter ended June 30, 1997).

          Amendment No. 3 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
          quarter ended September 30, 1997).

          Texas Instruments Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the Registrant's Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K for the year 1993).

          Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
          10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996).

          Texas Instruments Executive Officer Performance Plan (incorporated 
          by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
          the quarter ended March 31, 1997).

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

The Registrant filed the following reports on Form 8-K with the Securities and
Exchange Commission during the quarter ended December 31, 1998:  Form 8-K dated
September 30, 1998, which included pro forma financial statements relating to 
the Registrant's sale of the memory business to Micron Technology, Inc.; Form 
8-K dated October 1, 1998, relating to completion of the sale of the 
Registrant's memory business.


"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995:

This report includes "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the 
safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements generally can be 
identified by phrases such as TI or its management "believes," "expects," 
"anticipates," "foresees," "forecasts," "estimates" or other words or phrases 
of similar import.  Similarly, statements herein that describe TI's business 
strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-
looking statements.  All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those in forward-looking statements.

We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or its 
management:

- -   Market demand for semiconductors, particularly for digital signal 
    processors and analog integrated circuits in key markets, such as 
    telecommunications and computers.

- -   TI's ability to develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a 
    rapidly changing technological environment.




                                       -17-
- -   TI's ability to compete in products and prices in an intensely competitive 
    industry.

- -   TI's ability to maintain and enforce a strong intellectual property 
    portfolio and obtain needed licenses from third parties.

- -   Timely completion by customers and suppliers of their Year 2000 programs, 
    as well as accurate assessment of TI's Year 2000 readiness and effective 
    implementation of corrective actions.

- -   Global economic, social and political conditions in the countries in which 
    TI and its customers and suppliers operate, including fluctuations in 
    foreign currency exchange rates.

- -   Losses or curtailments of purchases from key customers or the timing of 
    customer inventory corrections.

- -   TI's ability to recruit and retain skilled personnel.

- -   Availability of raw materials and critical manufacturing equipment.

- -   Realization of savings from announced worldwide corporate restructuring 
    efforts and consolidation of manufacturing operations.

For a more detailed discussion of these factors see the text under the heading 
"Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Operations" in Item 1 of this report.  
The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the 
date of this report and TI undertakes no obligation to publicly update the 
forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.






























                                       -18-
                                SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its 
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED



                                             By: /s/WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH
                                                ------------------------------
                                                William A. Aylesworth
                                                Senior Vice President,
                                                Treasurer and Chief 
                                                Financial Officer

Date:  February 19, 1999

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 19th day of February, 1999.

              Signature                                Title


         /s/JAMES R. ADAMS*                          Director
- ------------------------------------
           James R. Adams

         /s/DAVID L. BOREN*                          Director
- ------------------------------------
           David L. Boren

         /s/JAMES B. BUSEY IV*                       Director
- ------------------------------------
          James B. Busey IV

         /s/DANIEL A. CARP*                          Director
- ------------------------------------
          Daniel A. Carp

       /s/THOMAS J. ENGIBOUS*              Chairman of the Board; President;
- ------------------------------------       Chief Executive Officer; Director
          Thomas J. Engibous 

       /s/GERALD W. FRONTERHOUSE*                    Director
- ------------------------------------
        Gerald W. Fronterhouse

         /s/DAVID R. GOODE*                          Director
- ------------------------------------
           David R. Goode






                                       -19-
                                                     Director
- ------------------------------------
           Wayne R. Sanders

                                                     Director
- ------------------------------------
          Gloria M. Shatto

       /s/CLAYTON K. YEUTTER*                        Director
- ------------------------------------
         Clayton K. Yeutter

      /s/WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH           Senior Vice President; Treasurer;
- ------------------------------------       Chief Financial Officer 
        William A. Aylesworth 


       /s/ M. SAMUEL SELF
- ------------------------------------       Senior Vice President; Controller;
           M. Samuel Self                  Chief Accounting Officer

*By:
     /s/WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH
    -----------------------------
        William A. Aylesworth       
          Attorney-in-fact

































                                       -20-
                TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                 (Item 14(a))

                                                         Page Reference
                                                         --------------
                                                                     Annual
                                                                   Report to
                                                    Form 10-K     Stockholders
                                                    ---------     ------------
Information incorporated by reference
to the Registrant's 1998 Annual Report
to Stockholders:

Consolidated Financial Statements:

            Income for each of the three 
            years in the period ended
            December 31, 1998                                          14

            Balance sheet at December 31, 
            1998 and 1997                                              15

            Cash flows for each of the
            three years in the period
            ended December 31, 1998                                    16-17

            Stockholders' equity for each of
            the three years in the period
            ended December 31, 1998                                    18

            Notes to financial statements                              19-33

            Report of Independent Auditors                             34

Consolidated Schedule for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1998:

            II.   Allowance for Losses and
                  Cash-Related Special Charges          22

All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is 
not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the 
schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated 
financial statements or the notes thereto.










                                       -21-


                                                                Schedule II
                                                                -----------


















                                       -22-


Exhibit Index

Designation of
 Exhibit in                                                          Electronic
 this Report       Description of Exhibit                            or Paper  
- --------------     ----------------------                            ----------


      3(a)         Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the 
                   Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
                   3(a) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                   10-K for the year 1993).

      3(b)         Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate 
                   of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated 
                   by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Registrant's 
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

      3(c)         Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate 
                   of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated 
                   by reference to Exhibit 3(c) to the Registrant's 
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

      3(d)         Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate 
                   of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated 
                   by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's 
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                   ended June 30, 1996).

      3(e)         Certificate of Ownership Merging Texas 
                   Instruments Automation Controls, Inc. into the 
                   Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
                   3(e) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                   10-K for the year 1993).

      3(f)         Certificate of Elimination of Designations of 
                   Preferred Stock of the Registrant (incorporated 
                   by reference to Exhibit 3(f) to the Registrant's 
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

      3(g)         Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging 
                   Tiburon Systems, Inc. into the Company 
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(g) to 
                   the Registrant's Registration Statement No. 
                   333-41919 on Form S-8).

      3(h)         Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging 
                   Tartan, Inc. into the Company (incorporated by 
                   reference to Exhibit 4(h) to the Registrant's 
                   Registration Statement No. 333-41919 on Form 
                   S-8).

      3(i)         Certificate of Designation relating to the 
                   Registrant's Participating Cumulative Preferred 
                   Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) 
                   to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                   for the quarter ended September 30, 1998).

      3(j)         Certificate of Elimination of Designation of 
                   Preferred Stock of the Registrant.

      3(k)         By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by 
                   reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's 
                   Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
                   December 4, 1997).

      4(a)(i)      Rights Agreement dated as of June 18, 1998
                   between the Registrant and Harris Trust and 
                   Savings Bank as Rights Agent, which includes as
                   Exhibit B the form of Rights Certificate 
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the 
                   Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A 
                   dated June 23, 1998).

      4(a)(ii)     Amendment dated as of September 18, 1998 to the 
                   Rights Agreement (incorporated by reference to 
                   Exhibit 2 to the Registrant's Amendment No. 1 to 
                   Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated September
                   23, 1998).

      4(b)         The Registrant agrees to provide the Commission, 
                   upon request, copies of instruments defining the 
                   rights of holders of long-term debt of the 
                   Registrant and its subsidiaries.

      10(a)(i)     TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by 
                   reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the 
                   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
                   year 1994).*

      10(a)(ii)    Amendment No. 1 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(iii) 
                   to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                   for the year 1994).*

      10(a)(iii)   Amendment No. 2 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
                   (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's 
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                   ended June 30, 1997).*

      10(a)(iv)    Amendment No. 3 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan
                   (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's 
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                   ended September 30, 1997).*

      10(b)        Texas Instruments Long-Term Incentive Plan 
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) 
                   to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                   for the year 1993).*

      10(c)        Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the 
                   Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
                   the quarter ended June 30, 1996).*

      10(d)        Texas Instruments Executive Officer Performance 
                   Plan (incorporated by reference to the 
                   Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
                   the quarter ended March 31, 1997).*

      10(e)        Texas Instruments Restricted Stock Unit Plan for 
                   Directors (incorporated by reference to 
                   Exhibit 10(e) to the Registrant's Quarterly 
                   Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
                   March 31, 1998).

      10(f)        Texas Instruments Directors Deferred Compensation 
                   Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) 
                   to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
                   for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).

      10(g)        Texas Instruments Stock Option Plan for 
                   Non-Employee Directors.

      10(h)        Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of January 4, 
                   1997 between the Registrant and Raytheon Company
                   (exhibits and schedules omitted) (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's 
                   Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4, 
                   1997).

      10(i)        Acquisition Agreement dated as of June 18, 1998 
                   between Texas Instruments Incorporated and Micron
                   Technology, Inc. (exhibit C omitted) (incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's 
                   Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 18, 1998).

      10(j)        Second Amendment to Acquisition Agreement dated as
                   of September 30, 1998 between Texas Instruments 
                   Incorporated and Micron Technology, Inc. 
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the 
                   Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
                   October 15, 1998).

      10(k)        Securities Rights and Restrictions Agreement dated
                   as of September 30, 1998 between Texas Instruments
                   Incorporated and Micron Technology, Inc.

      11           Computation of Earnings Per Common and Dilutive
                   Potential Common Share.

      12           Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

      13           Portions of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to 
                   Stockholders Incorporated by Reference Herein. 

      21           List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

      23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

      24           Powers of Attorney.

      27           Financial Data Schedule.

- ----------------
      *Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

          TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
the year 1994).

          Amendment No. 1 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(iii) to Registrant's Annual Report 
on Form 10-K for the year 1994).

          Amendment No. 2 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
(incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

          Amendment No. 3 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
(incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997).

          Texas Instruments Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the Registrant's Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the year 1993).

          Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996).

          Texas Instruments Executive Officer Performance Plan 
(incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997).


