
10-K


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                           Washington, D. C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1997
                        Commission File Number 1-3761

                         TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
            -----------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

              Delaware                            75-0289970      
      ------------------------       ------------------------------------
      (State of Incorporation)       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

          8505 Forest Lane, P.O. Box 660199, Dallas, Texas 75266-0199
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   (Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code 972-995-3773

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange on
Title of each class                                     which registered
- -----------------------------                        ------------------------
Common Stock, par value $1.00                        New York Stock Exchange
                                                     The Swiss Exchange 
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                      New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No     

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K.

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the 
Registrant was approximately $17,423,000,000 as of December 31, 1997.


                                  389,498,552
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 1997)

Parts I, II and IV hereof incorporate information by reference to the 
Registrant's 1997 annual report to stockholders.  Part III hereof incorporates 
information by reference to the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1998 
annual meeting of stockholders. 





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   Business. 

Semiconductors
- --------------

Texas Instruments Incorporated ("TI," or the "Registrant," including 
subsidiaries except where the context indicates otherwise) is a global 
semiconductor company and the world's leading designer and supplier of digital 
signal processing solutions, the engines driving the digitization of 
electronics.  These digital signal processing solutions consist primarily of 
digital signal processors and mixed-signal/analog devices that convert the 
analog signals of the real world into digital data, then back again as analog 
output.  They enable a wide range of new products and features for TI's more 
than 30,000 customers in industrial, commercial and government end-equipment 
markets.

TI also is a world leader in the design and manufacturing of other 
semiconductor products.  Those products include application-specific 
integrated circuits, reduced instruction-set microprocessors, 
microcontrollers, standard logic, and memories. 

Semiconductors comprised 83% of TI's total revenues in 1997.  TI's 
semiconductor products are used in a diverse range of electronic systems, 
including digital cell phones, pagers, computers, printers, mass storage 
devices, modems, networking equipment, digital cameras and video recorders, 
motor controls, autos, and home appliances.  Products are sold primarily to 
original-equipment manufacturers and through distributors.  In addition, TI's 
semiconductor patent portfolio has been established as an ongoing contributor 
to semiconductor revenues.

The semiconductor business is intensely competitive, subject to rapid 
technological change, and requires high rates of investment.  TI faces strong 
competition in all of its semiconductor product lines.  The rapid pace of 
change and technological breakthroughs constantly create new opportunities for 
existing competitors and start-ups, which can quickly render existing 
technologies less valuable.

In digital signal processors, TI competes with a growing number of large and 
smaller companies, both U.S.-based and international.  New product development 
capabilities, applications support, software knowledge and advanced technology 
are the primary competitive factors in this business. 

The market for mixed-signal/analog devices is highly fragmented.  TI competes 
with many large and smaller companies, both U.S.-based and international.   
Primary competitive factors in this business are the availability of 
innovative designs, a broad range of process technologies and applications 
support and in the standard products area, price. 

In memory, TI competes with a number of very large companies, primarily in 
Japan and Korea.  TI is among the smaller competitors in this highly volatile 
market. Competitive factors in this business are primarily price and 
performance.

Acquisitions and Divestitures
- -----------------------------

From time to time TI considers acquisitions and divestitures that may 
strengthen its business portfolio.  TI may effect one or more of these 
transactions at such time or times as it determines to be appropriate. In 


1997, as TI tightened its focus on digital signal processing solutions, it 
announced the acquisition of technology companies that brought unique 
expertise to its core business.  In the first quarter, TI acquired Intersect 
Technologies, Inc., a developer and designer of hardware, software and 
firmware for the mass storage market, a market that increasingly uses digital 
signal processing solutions.  In the fourth quarter, TI acquired Amati 
Communications Corporation, the leading developer of technology for high-speed 
Internet connections, a market expected to reach $6 billion over the next 
decade.  TI also acquired GO DSP Corporation, a developer of software for 
digital signal processors, in the first quarter of 1998. 

In 1997 TI divested various business units.  These divestitures included the 
sale of the mobile computing business to The Acer Group in the first quarter, 
the software business to Sterling Software, Inc. in the second quarter, and 
the defense systems and electronics business (DSE) to Raytheon Company 
("Raytheon") in the third quarter. In accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, the consolidated financial statements have been 
restated to classify DSE as discontinued operations.  Operating results, net 
asset and other information for discontinued operations appear in the note to 
the financial statements captioned "Discontinued Operations" on pages 20-21 of 
TI's 1997 annual report to stockholders; unless otherwise indicated, the 
financial amounts in this Form 10-K have been adjusted to reflect continuing 
operations only.

Other TI Businesses
- -------------------

In addition to semiconductors, TI has two other principal segments.   The 
largest, representing 10% of TI's revenues, is materials and controls.  This 
business sells electrical and electronic controls, electronic connectors, 
sensors, radio-frequency identification systems and clad metals into markets 
such as automotive, heating and air conditioning, and home appliances.   While 
the top supplier in some product areas, TI faces strong multinational 
competitors. The primary competitive factors in this business are product 
reliability, manufacturing costs, and engineering expertise.  The products of 
this business are sold directly to original-equipment manufacturers and 
through distributors.

Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) represents 5 percent of TI's 
revenues and consists largely of educational and graphing calculators. This 
business sells primarily through retailers and to schools through 
instructional dealers.  TI's principal competitors in this business are 
several Japanese companies.  Technology expertise, price and infrastructure 
for education and market understanding are primary competitive factors in this 
business.

In addition, TI continues to invest in digital imaging, an emerging business 
that produces micro-mirror-based devices that enable revolutionary brightness 
and clarity in large-screen video displays.  The primary sales route is 
directly to original-equipment manufacturers.  TI faces competition in this 
business primarily from a competing technology known as liquid crystal 
displays from Asian manufacturers. Primary competitive factors in this 
business are price, brightness and performance of the display, and in some 
applications, size and weight.

General Information
- -------------------

TI is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales 
operations in more than 25 countries.  TI's largest geographic markets are in 
the United States, Japan and Europe.  TI has been in operation since 1930.


           The financial information with respect to TI's business segments 
and operations outside the United States, which is contained in the note to 
the financial statements captioned "Business Segment and Geographic Area Data" 
on pages 30-32 of  TI's 1997 annual report to stockholders, is incorporated 
herein by reference to such annual report.

Backlog
- -------
          The dollar amount of backlog of orders believed by the Registrant to 
be firm was $1623 million as of December 31, 1997 and 1996. The Registrant's 
backlog does not represent actual revenues and is only an indication of future 
revenues which may be entered on the books of account of the Registrant. 
Backlog orders are, under certain circumstances, subject to cancellation by 
the purchaser without penalty and do not reflect any potential adjustments for 
price decreases.

Raw Materials
- -------------
          The Registrant purchases materials, parts and supplies from a number 
of suppliers. The materials, parts and supplies essential to the Registrant's 
business are generally available at present and the Registrant believes at 
this time that such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the 
foreseeable future.

Patents and Trademarks
- ----------------------
          The Registrant owns many patents in the United States and other 
countries in fields relating to its business.  The Registrant has developed a 
strong, broad-based patent portfolio.  The Registrant also has several 
agreements with other companies involving license rights and anticipates that 
other licenses may be negotiated in the future.  The Registrant does not 
consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent 
license, although taken as a whole, the rights of the Registrant and the 
products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to the 
Registrant's business. The Registrant's patent portfolio has been established 
as an ongoing contributor to the revenues of the Registrant.  

          The Registrant owns trademarks that are used in the conduct of its 
business.  These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which 
are "Texas Instruments" and the Registrant's corporate monogram. 

Research and Development
- ------------------------
          The Registrant's research and development expense was $1536 million 
in 1997, compared with $1181 million in 1996 and $842 million in 1995. 
Included is a charge for the value of in-process research and development of 
$461 million in 1997 and $192 million in 1996 as a result of the acquisitions 
of Amati Communications Corporation and Silicon Systems, Inc., respectively. 

Seasonality
- -----------
          The Registrant's revenues are subject to some seasonal variation. 

Employees
- ---------
          The information concerning the number of persons employed by the 
Registrant, at December 31, 1997 on page 35 of the Registrant's 1997 annual 
report to stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such annual 
report.





ITEM 2.   Properties.

          The Registrant's principal executive offices are located at 8505 
Forest Lane, Dallas, Texas.  The Registrant owns and leases plants in the 
United States and 15 other countries for manufacturing and related purposes.  
The following table indicates the general location of the principal plants of 
the Registrant and the business segments which make major use of them.  Except 
as otherwise indicated, the principal plants are owned by the Registrant.

                                        Materials               
                       Semiconductor   and Controls     E&PS    
                       -------------   ------------     ----
Dallas, Texas(1)              X             X             X
Houston, Texas                X
Lubbock, Texas                X
Sherman, Texas(1)(2)          X
Santa Cruz, California        X
Attleboro,                    X             X
  Massachusetts
Freising, Germany             X             X
Avezzano, Italy(3)            X  
Baguio,                       X
  Philippines(4)
Hiji, Japan                   X
Kuala Lumpur,                 X             X
  Malaysia(2)   
Miho, Japan                   X
Singapore(4)                  X
Taipei, Taiwan                X
Aguascalientes, Mexico        X             X
____________________
(1)  Certain plants or portions thereof in Dallas and Sherman are leased to 
Raytheon or Raytheon-related entities in connection with the sale of DSE. 
(2)  Leased or primarily leased.
(3)  Owned, subject to mortgage.
(4)  Owned on leased land.


          The Registrant's facilities in the United States contained 
approximately 17,900,000 square feet as of December 31, 1997, of which 
approximately 3,700,000 square feet were leased.  The Registrant's facilities 
outside the United States contained approximately 7,000,000 square feet as of 
December 31, 1997, of which approximately 1,700,000 square feet were leased. 

          The Registrant believes that its existing properties are in good 
condition and suitable for the manufacture of its products.  At the end of 
1997, the Registrant utilized substantially all of the space in its 
facilities. 

          Leases covering the Registrant's leased facilities expire at varying 
dates generally within the next 10 years.  The Registrant anticipates no 
difficulty in either retaining occupancy through lease renewals, month-to-
month occupancy or purchases of leased facilities, or replacing the leased 
facilities with equivalent facilities.








ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings.


          On July 19, 1991, the Registrant filed a lawsuit in Tokyo District 
Court against Fujitsu Limited of Japan ("Fujitsu") seeking injunctive relief, 
alleging that Fujitsu's manufacture and sale of certain DRAMs infringe the 
Registrant's Japanese patent on the invention of the integrated circuit (the 
"Kilby" patent).  Concurrently, Fujitsu brought a lawsuit in the same court 
against the Registrant, seeking a declaration that Fujitsu is not infringing 
the Kilby patent.  On August 31, 1994, the district court ruled that Fujitsu's 
production of 1-megabit and 4-megabit DRAMs and 32K EPROMs does not infringe 
the Kilby patent.  The Registrant appealed the court's decision to the 
Tokyo High Court.

          In September 1997, the Tokyo High Court upheld the decision that 
Fujitsu's production of such products does not infringe TI's Kilby patent.  
The Registrant has appealed the ruling to the Japan Supreme Court.  In 
November, the Japan Patent Office invalidated the Kilby patent. The Registrant 
plans to appeal this decision to the Tokyo High Court.  Since the Kilby patent 
expires in 2001, the Registrant does not expect the outcome of either appeal 
to be material.

          The Registrant is involved in various investigations and proceedings 
conducted by the federal Environmental Protection Agency and certain state 
environmental agencies regarding disposal of waste materials.  Although the 
factual situations and the progress of each of these matters differ, the 
Registrant believes that the amount of its liability will not have a material 
adverse effect upon its financial position or results of operations and, in 
most cases, the Registrant's liability will be limited to sharing clean-up or 
other remedial costs with other potentially responsible parties.

ITEM 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

          Not applicable.





























Executive Officers of the Registrant

          The following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the 
executive officers of the Registrant and the positions or offices with the 
Registrant presently held by each person named: 

       Name                   Age                     Position

James R. Adams                58          Director; Chairman of the Board

Richard J. Agnich             54          Senior Vice President, Secretary
                                          and General Counsel

William A. Aylesworth         55          Senior Vice President,
                                          Treasurer and Chief Financial
                                          Officer (Chief Accounting 
                                          Officer)

Gary D. Clubb                 51          Executive Vice President
                                          (President, Digital Imaging)

Thomas J. Engibous            45          Director; President and 
                                          Chief Executive
                                          Officer 
                                          
David D. Martin               58          Executive Vice President

Charles F. Nielson            60          Vice President

Elwin L. Skiles, Jr.          56          Vice President

Richard K. Templeton          39          Executive Vice President 
                                          (President, Semiconductor Group)

William P. Weber              57          Director; Vice Chairman

          The term of office of each of the above listed officers is from the 
date of his election until his successor shall have been elected and 
qualified, and the most recent date of election of each of them was April 17, 
1997.  Mr. Adams, who has been a director of the Registrant since 1989, was 
Group President of SBC Communications Inc. from 1992 until his retirement in 
1995, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Southwestern Bell Telephone 
Company from 1988 to 1992.  Messrs. Agnich, Aylesworth, Martin, Nielson, 
Skiles and Weber have served as officers of the Registrant for more than five 
years.  Messrs. Clubb and Engibous have served as officers of the Registrant 
since 1993.  Messrs. Adams and Templeton have served as officers of the 
Registrant since 1996.  Messrs. Clubb, Engibous and Templeton have been 
employees of the Registrant for more than five years.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder 
          Matters.

          The information which is contained in the note to the financial 
statements captioned "Common Stock Prices and Dividends" on page 41 of the 
Registrant's 1997 annual report to stockholders, and the information 
concerning the number of stockholders of record at December 31, 1997 on 
page 35 of such annual report, are incorporated herein by reference to such 
annual report. 



ITEM 6.   Selected Financial Data.

          The "Summary of Selected Financial Data" for the years 1993 through 
1997 which appears on page 35 of the Registrant's 1997 annual report to 
stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.

ITEM 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
          Results of Operations.

          The information contained under the caption "Management Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 36-41 
of such annual report are incorporated herein by reference to such annual 
report.

ITEM 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

          The consolidated financial statements of the Registrant at December 
31, 1997 and 1996 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 1997, and the report thereon of the independent auditors, on pages 14-34 
of the Registrant's 1997 annual report to stockholders, are incorporated 
herein by reference to such annual report.

          The "Quarterly Financial Data" on page 42-43 of the Registrant's 
1997 annual report to stockholders is also incorporated herein by reference to 
such annual report.

ITEM 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
          Financial Disclosure.

          Not applicable.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

          The information with respect to directors' names, ages, positions, 
term of office and periods of service, which is contained under the caption 
"Nominees for Directorship" in the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1998 
annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such 
proxy statement.

          Information concerning executive officers is set forth in Part I 
hereof under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation.

          The information which is contained under the captions "Directors 
Compensation,"  "Executive Compensation" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial 
Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Registrant's proxy statement for the 
1998 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to 
such proxy statement.

ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

          The information concerning (a) the only persons that have reported 
beneficial ownership of more than 5% of the common stock of the Registrant, 
and (b) the ownership of the Registrant's common stock by the Chief Executive 
Officer and the four other most highly compensated executive officers, and all 
executive officers and directors as a group, which is contained under the 
caption "Voting Securities" in the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1998 
annual meeting of stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference to such 
proxy statement.  The information concerning ownership of the Registrant's 

common stock by each of the directors, which is contained under the caption 
"Nominees for Directorship" in such proxy statement, is also incorporated 
herein by reference to such proxy statement.

          The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of 
the Registrant shown on the cover page hereof excludes the shares held by the 
Registrant's directors, some of whom disclaim affiliate status, executive vice 
presidents and senior vice presidents.  These holdings were considered to 
include shares credited to certain individuals' profit sharing accounts.

ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

          Not applicable.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K. 

          (a)  1 and 2.  Financial Statements and Financial Statement 
                         Schedules:

          The financial statements and financial statement schedules are 
          listed in the index on page 16 hereof.

                     3.  Exhibits:

             Designation of
              Exhibit in
              this Report              Description of Exhibit
            --------------   -------------------------------------------------

                2            Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of January 4, 
                             1997 between the Registrant and Raytheon Company
                             (exhibits and schedules omitted) (incorporated by
                             reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's 
                             Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4, 
                             1997).

                3(a)         Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the 
                             Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
                             3(a) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                             10-K for the year 1993).

                3(b)         Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate 
                             of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated 
                             by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Registrant's 
                             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

                3(c)         Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate 
                             of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated 
                             by reference to Exhibit 3(c) to the Registrant's 
                             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

                3(d)         Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate 
                             of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated 
                             by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's 
                             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                             ended June 30, 1996).



                3(e)         Certificate of Designations relating to the 
                             Registrant's Participating Cumulative Preferred 
                             Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(d) 
                             to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                             for the year 1993).

                3(f)         Certificate of Ownership Merging Texas 
                             Instruments Automation Controls, Inc. into the 
                             Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
                             3(e) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                             10-K for the year 1993).

                3(g)         Certificate of Elimination of Designations of 
                             Preferred Stock of the Registrant (incorporated 
                             by reference to Exhibit 3(f) to the Registrant's 
                             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

                3(h)         Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging 
                             Tiburon Systems, Inc. into the Company 
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(g) to the 
                             Registrant's Registration Statement No. 
                             333-41919 on Form S-8).

                3(i)         Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging 
                             Tartan, Inc. into the Company (incorporated by 
                             reference to Exhibit 4(h) to the Registrant's 
                             Registration Statement No. 333-41919 on Form 
                             S-8).

                3(j)         By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by 
                             reference to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's 
                             Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
                             December 4, 1997).

                4(a)(i)      Rights Agreement dated as of June 17, 1988 
                             between the Registrant and First Chicago Trust 
                             Company of New York, formerly Morgan Shareholder 
                             Services Trust Company, as Rights Agent, which 
                             includes as Exhibit B the form of Rights 
                             Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
                             4(a)(i) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                             10-K for the year 1993).

                4(a)(ii)     Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated as of 
                             September 24, 1992 among the Registrant, First 
                             Chicago Trust Company of New York, formerly 
                             Morgan Shareholder Services Trust Company, and 
                             Harris Trust and Savings Bank (incorporated by 
                             reference to Exhibit 4(a)(i) to the Registrant's 
                             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                             ended September 30, 1992).

                4(b)         The Registrant agrees to provide the Commission, 
                             upon request, copies of instruments defining the 
                             rights of holders of long-term debt of the 
                             Registrant and its subsidiaries.

                10(a)(i)     TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by 
                             reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the 
                             Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
                             year 1994).*


                10(a)(ii)    Amendment No. 1 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(iii) 
                             to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                             for the year 1994).*

                10(a)(iii)   Amendment No. 2 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
                             (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's 
                             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                             ended June 30, 1997).*

                10(a)(iv)    Amendment No. 3 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan
                             (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's 
                             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                             ended September 30, 1997).*

                10(b)        Texas Instruments Long-Term Incentive Plan 
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) 
                             to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                             for the year 1993).*

                10(c)        Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
                             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the 
                             Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
                             the quarter ended June 30, 1996).*

                10(d)        Texas Instruments Executive Officer Performance 
                             Plan (incorporated by reference to the 
                             Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
                             the quarter ended March 31, 1997).*

                10(e)        Texas Instruments Restricted Stock Unit Plan for 
                             Directors (incorporated by reference to 
                             Exhibit 10(c) to the Registrant's Quarterly 
                             Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
                             June 30, 1996).

                10(f)        Texas Instruments Directors Deferred Compensation 
                             Plan (incorporated by reference to the 
                             Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
                             the quarter ended September 30, 1997).

                10(g)        Statement of Policy of Registrant's Board of 
                             Directors on Top Officer and Board Member 
                             Retirement Practices (incorporated by reference 
                             to Exhibit 10(b)(vi) to the Registrant's Annual 
                             Report on Form 10-K for the year 1993).*

                11           Computation of earnings per common and dilutive
                             potential common share.

                12           Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
                             and Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges 
                             and Preferred Stock Dividends.

                13           Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders. 
                             (With the exception of the items listed in the 
                             index to financial statements and financial 
                             statement schedules herein, and the items 
                             referred to in ITEMS 1, 5, 6, 7 and 8 hereof, the 
                             1997 Annual Report to Stockholders is not to be 
                             deemed filed as part of this report.)


                21           List of subsidiaries of the Registrant.

                23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

                24           Powers of Attorney.

                27           Financial Data Schedule.

________________
      *Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:
                              
          TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
          10(a)(ii) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
          year 1994).

          Amendment No. 1 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10(a)(iii) to Registrant's Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K for the year 1994).

          Amendment No. 2 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
          quarter ended June 30, 1997).

          Amendment No. 3 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
          quarter ended September 30, 1997).

          Texas Instruments Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the Registrant's Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K for the year 1993).

          Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
          10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996).

          Texas Instruments Executive Officer Performance Plan (incorporated 
          by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on form 10-Q for 
          the quarter ended March 31, 1997).

          Statement of Policy of Registrant's Board of Directors on Top 
          Officer and Board Member Retirement Practices (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10(b)(vi) to the Registrant's Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K for the year 1993).

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

          None.

"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995:

          With the exception of historical information, the matters discussed 
or incorporated by reference in this Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking 
statements that involve risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, 
global economic conditions, product demand and industry capacity, competitive 
products and pricing, manufacturing efficiencies, new product development, 
ability to enforce patents, availability of raw materials and critical 
manufacturing equipment, new plant startups and continuity of DRAM joint 
venture manufacturing operations, timely completion of announced acquisitions, 
the regulatory and trade environment, timely completion of Year 2000 software 
modifications, and other risks indicated in filings with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission.

                                SIGNATURE

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report 
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED



                                             By: /s/ WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH 
                                                ------------------------------
                                                William A. Aylesworth
                                                Senior Vice President,
                                                Treasurer and Chief 
                                                Financial Officer
Date:  February 23, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 23rd day of February, 1998.

              Signature                                Title


          *JAMES R. ADAMS                  Chairman of the Board; Director
- ------------------------------------
           James R. Adams

          *DAVID L. BOREN                  Director
- ------------------------------------
           David L. Boren

         *JAMES B. BUSEY IV                Director
- ------------------------------------
          James B. Busey IV

         *DANIEL A. CARP                   Director
- ------------------------------------
          Daniel A. Carp

         *THOMAS J. ENGIBOUS               President; Chief Executive Officer;
- ------------------------------------       Director
          Thomas J. Engibous

       *GERALD W. FRONTERHOUSE             Director
- ------------------------------------
        Gerald W. Fronterhouse

          *DAVID R. GOODE                  Director
- ------------------------------------
           David R. Goode

          *WAYNE R. SANDERS                Director
- ------------------------------------
           Wayne R. Sanders

         *GLORIA M. SHATTO                 Director
- ------------------------------------
          Gloria M. Shatto




         *WILLIAM P. WEBER                 Vice Chairman; Director
- ------------------------------------
          William P. Weber

        *CLAYTON K. YEUTTER                Director
- ------------------------------------
         Clayton K. Yeutter

    /s/ WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH              Senior Vice President; Treasurer;
- ------------------------------------       Chief Financial Officer; Chief 
        William A. Aylesworth              Accounting Officer


*By:
    /s/ WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH
    -----------------------------
        William A. Aylesworth       
          Attorney-in-fact












































                TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                 (Item 14(a))

                                                         Page Reference
                                                         --------------
                                                                     Annual
                                                                   Report to
                                                    Form 10-K     Stockholders
                                                    ---------     ------------
Information incorporated by reference
to the Registrant's 1997 Annual Report
to Stockholders:

Consolidated Financial Statements:

            Income for each of the three                               14
            years in the period ended
            December 31, 1997 

            Balance sheet at December 31,                              15
            1997 and 1996

            Cash flows for each of the                                 16-17
            three years in the period
            ended December 31, 1997

            Stockholders' equity for each of                           18
            the three years in the period
            ended December 31, 1997

            Notes to financial statements                              19-33

            Report of Independent Auditors                             34

Consolidated Schedule for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1997:

            II.   Allowance for losses                  16

     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is 
not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the 
schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated 
financial statements or the notes thereto.

















                                                                   Schedule II
                                                                   -----------

                TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                              ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES
                            (IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
                 Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995

                                                            Additions
             Balance at     Charged to                       Balance
             Beginning      Costs and                        at End
              of Year       Expenses       Deductions        of Year

1997          $90             $133            $150             $73
- ----          ====            ====            ====             ====

1996          $45             $163            $118             $90
- ----          ====            ====            ====             ====

1995          $37             $113            $105             $45
- ----          ====            ====            ====             ====

Allowances for losses from uncollectible accounts, returns, etc., are deducted 
from accounts receivable in the balance sheet.







































Exhibit Index

        Designation of
        Exhibit in                                          Electronic
        this Report        Description of Exhibit            or Paper   
        --------------     ----------------------             ---------


            2           Asset Purchase Agreement dated as 
                        of January 4, 1997 between the 
                        Registrant and  Raytheon Company 
                        (exhibits and schedules omitted) 
                        (incorporated by reference to 
                        Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's 
                        Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
                        January 4, 1997).

            3(a)        Restated Certificate of Incorporation 
                        of the Registrant (incorporated by 
                        reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the 
                        Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                        10-K for the year 1993).

            3(b)        Certificate of Amendment to Restated 
                        Certificate of Incorporation of the 
                        Registrant (incorporated by reference 
                        to Exhibit 3(b) to the Registrant's 
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
                        1993).

            3(c)        Certificate of Amendment to Restated 
                        Certificate of Incorporation of the 
                        Registrant (incorporated by reference 
                        to Exhibit 3(c) to the Registrant's 
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
                        Year 1993).

            3(d)        Certificate of Amendment to Restated 
                        Certificate of Incorporation of the 
                        Registrant (incorporated by reference 
                        to Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's 
                        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
                        the quarter ended June 30, 1996).

            3(e)        Certificate of Designations relating
                        to the Registrant's Participating 
                        Cumulative Preferred Stock 
                         (incorporated by reference 
                        to Exhibit 3(d) to the Registrant's 
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
                        year 1993).

            3(f)        Certificate of Ownership Merging Texas 
                        Instruments Automation Controls, Inc.
                        into the Registrant (incorporated by 
                        reference to Exhibit 3(e) to the 
                        Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                        10-K for the year 1993).

            3(g)        Certificate of Elimination of 
                        Designations of Preferred Stock of the
                        Registrant (incorporated by reference 
                        to Exhibit 3(f) to the Registrant's 
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
                        year 1993).

            3(h)        Certificate of Ownership and Merger 
                        Merging Tiburon Systems, Inc. into
                        the Company (incorporated by reference 
                        to Exhibit 4(g) to the Registrant's 
                        Registration Statement No. 333-41919
                        on Form S-8).

            3(i)        Certificate of Ownership and Merger 
                        Merging Tartan, Inc. into the Company
                        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
                        4(h) to the Registrant's Registration 
                        Statement No. 333-41919 on Form S-8).


            3(j)        By-Laws of the Registrant 
                        (incorporated by reference to 
                        Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's 
                        Current Report on Form 8-K 
                        dated December 4, 1997).

            4(a)(i)     Rights Agreement dated as of 
                        June 17, 1988 between the Registrant
                        and First Chicago Trust Company 
                        of New York, formerly Morgan 
                        Shareholder Services Trust Company, 
                        as Rights Agent, which includes as 
                        Exhibit B the form of Rights 
                        Certificate (incorporated by 
                        reference to Exhibit 4(a)(i) 
                        to the Registrant's Annual Report 
                        on Form 10-K for the year 1993).

            4(a)(ii)    Assignment and Assumption Agreement 
                        dated as of September 24, 1992 
                        among the Registrant, First Chicago 
                        Trust Company of New York, formerly 
                        Morgan Shareholder Services Trust 
                        Company, and Harris Trust and 
                        Savings Bank (incorporated by 
                        reference to Exhibit 4(a)(i) to 
                        the Registrant's Quarterly Report 
                        on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                        ended September 30, 1992).

            4(b)        The Registrant agrees to provide 
                        the Commission, upon request, copies 
                        of instruments defining the rights 
                        of holders of long-term debt of 
                        the Registrant and its subsidiaries.

            10(a)(i)    TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
                        (incorporated by reference to 
                        Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the 
                        Registrant's Annual Report on 
                        Form 10-K for the year 1994).*

            10(a)(ii)   Amendment No. 1 to TI Deferred 
                        Compensation Plan (incorporated 
                        by reference to Exhibit 
                        10(a)(iii) to the Registrant's 
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                        for the year 1994).*

            10(a)(iii)  Amendment No. 2 to TI Deferred 
                        Compensation Plan (incorporated 
                        by reference to the Registrant's 
                        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
                        for the quarter ended 
                        June 30, 1997).*

            10(a)(iv)   Amendment No. 3 to TI Deferred 
                        Compensation Plan (incorporated 
                        by reference to the Registrant's 
                        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
                        for the quarter ended 
                        September 30, 1997).*

            10(b)       Texas Instruments Long-Term 
                        Incentive Plan (incorporated 
                        by reference to Exhibit 
                        10(a)(ii) to the Registrant's 
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K 
                        for the year 1993).*

            10(c)       Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term 
                        Incentive Plan (incorporated by 
                        reference to Exhibit 10 to 
                        the Registrant's Quarterly 
                        Report on Form 10-Q for the 
                        quarter ended June 30, 1996).*

            10(d)       Texas Instruments Executive 
                        Officer Performance Plan 
                        (incorporated by reference 
                        to the Registrant's Quarterly 
                        Report on Form 10-Q for the 
                        quarter ended March 31, 1997).*

            10(e)       Texas Instruments Restricted 
                        Stock Unit Plan for Directors 
                        (incorporated by reference to 
                        Exhibit 10(c) to the 
                        Registrant's Quarterly Report 
                        on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
                        ended June 30, 1996).

            10(f)       Texas Instruments Directors 
                        Deferred Compensation Plan 
                        (incorporated by reference 
                        to the Registrant's Quarterly 
                        Report on Form 10-Q for the 
                        quarter ended September 30, 1997).

            10(g)       Statement of Policy of Registrant's 
                        Board of Directors on Top Officer 
                        and Board Member Retirement 
                        Practices (incorporated by reference 
                        to Exhibit 10(b)(vi) to the 
                        Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
                        10-K for the year 1993).*

            11          Computation of earnings per common            E
                        and dilutive potential common share.

            12          Computation of Ratio of Earnings to           E
                        Fixed Charges and Ratio of Earnings 
                        to Combined Fixed Charges and 
                        Preferred Stock Dividends.

            13          Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to            E
                        Stockholders.  (With the exception 
                        of the items listed in the index 
                        to financial statements and 
                        financial statement schedules 
                        herein, and the items referred to 
                        in ITEMS 1, 5, 6, 7 and 8 hereof, 
                        the 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders 
                        is not to be deemed filed as part 
                        of this report.)

            21          List of subsidiaries of the Registrant.       E

            23          Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.                 E

            24          Powers of Attorney.                           E

            27          Financial Data Schedule.                      E

________________
      *Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

          TI Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
the year 1994).

          Amendment No. 1 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(iii) to Registrant's Annual Report 
on Form 10-K for the year 1994).

          Amendment No. 2 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
(incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

          Amendment No. 3 to TI Deferred Compensation Plan 
(incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 
1997).

          Texas Instruments Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10(a)(ii) to the Registrant's Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the year 1993).

          Texas Instruments 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996).

          Texas Instruments Executive Officer Performance Plan 
(incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on form 
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997).

          Statement of Policy of Registrant's Board of Directors on Top 
Officer and Board Member Retirement Practices (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10(b)(vi) to the Registrant's Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the year 1993).

