
10-K405


                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION             
                           Washington, D. C.  20549

                                 FORM 10-K

               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1994
                       Commission File Number 1-3761

                      TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
           -----------------------------------------------------
          (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                           75-0289970      
    ------------------------       ------------------------------------
    (State of Incorporation)       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 13500 North Central Expressway, P.O. Box 655474, Dallas, Texas,75265-5474
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
 (Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)
                                                                              
      Registrant's telephone number, including area code 214-995-3773

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange on
Title of each class                                     which registered
- -------------------------------                      ------------------------
Common Stock, par value $1.00                        New York Stock Exchange
                                                     London Stock Exchange
                                                     Tokyo Stock Exchange
                                                     The Stock Exchanges of
                                                       Zurich, Basle and
                                                       Geneva
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                      New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X  No
                                                   ---   ---
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $7,195,000,000 as of February 28, 1995.

                                92,840,206  
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 1995)

Parts I, II and IV hereof incorporate information by reference to the
Registrant's 1994 annual report to stockholders.  Part III hereof incorporates
information by reference to the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1995
annual meeting of stockholders. 
                                  PART I


ITEM 1.     Business. 

General
- -------
            Texas Instruments Incorporated (hereinafter the "Registrant,"
including subsidiaries except where the context indicates otherwise) is
engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a variety of products
in the electrical and electronics industry for industrial, government and
consumer markets.  These products consist of components, defense
electronics and digital products.  The Registrant also produces metallurgical
materials. In addition, the Registrant s patent portfolio has been established
as an ongoing contributor to the Registrant s revenues.  The Registrant's
business is based principally on its broad semiconductor technology and
application of this technology to selected electronic end-equipment
markets. The Registrant from time to time considers acquisitions and
divestitures which may alter its business mix.  The Registrant may effect
one or more such transactions at such time or times as the Registrant
determines to be appropriate.  

            The information with respect to net revenues, profit and
identifiable assets of the Registrant's industry segments and operations
outside the United States, which is contained in the note to the financial
statements captioned "Industry Segment and Geographic Area Operations" on
pages 37-38 of the Registrant's 1994 annual report to stockholders, is
incorporated herein by reference to such annual report. 

Components
- ----------
            Components consist of semiconductor integrated circuits (such
as microprocessors/microcontrollers, applications processors, memories, and
digital and linear circuits), semiconductor discrete devices, semiconductor
subassemblies (such as custom modules for specific applications), and
electrical and electronic control devices (such as motor protectors, starting
relays, circuit breakers, thermostats, sensors, and radio-frequency
identification systems).

            These components are used in a broad range of products for
industrial end-use (such as computers, data terminals and peripheral
equipment, telecommunications, instrumentation, and industrial motor controls
and automation equipment), consumer end-use (such as televisions, cameras,
automobiles, home appliances, and residential air conditioning and heating
systems) and government end-use (such as defense and space equipment). The
Registrant sells these components primarily to original equipment
manufacturers principally through its own marketing organizations and to a
lesser extent through distributors. 

Defense Electronics
- -------------------
            Defense electronics consist of radar systems, navigation systems,
infrared surveillance and fire control systems, defense suppression missiles,
other weapon systems (including antitank and interdiction weapons), missile
guidance and control systems, electronic warfare systems, and other defense
electronic equipment.  Sales are made to the U.S. government (either directly
or through prime contractors) and to international customers approved by the
U.S. government.
                                     


Digital Products
- ----------------
            Digital products include software productivity tools, notebook
computers, printers, electronic calculators, and custom engineering and
manufacturing services.

            Digital products are used in a broad range of enterprise-wide,
work group and personal information-based applications.  The Registrant
markets these products through various channels, including system suppliers,
business equipment dealers, distributors, retailers, and direct sales to end-
users and original equipment manufacturers.

Metallurgical Materials
- -----------------------
            Metallurgical materials include clad metals, precision-engineered
parts and electronic connectors for use in a variety of applications such as
appliances, automobiles, electronic components, and industrial and
telecommunications equipment.  These metallurgical materials are primarily
sold directly to original equipment manufacturers.  This segment also includes
development costs associated with solar cells; the Registrant has announced
its intention to sell its solar cell technology.

Competition
- -----------
            The Registrant is engaged in highly competitive businesses.  Its
competitors include several of the largest companies in the United States,
East Asia, particularly Japan, and elsewhere abroad as well as many small,
specialized companies.  The Registrant is a significant competitor in each of
its principal businesses.  Generally, the Registrant's businesses are
characterized by rapidly changing technology which has, throughout the
Registrant's history, intensified the competitive factors, primarily
performance and price. 

Government Sales
- ----------------
            Net revenues directly from federal government agencies in the
United States, principally related to the defense electronics segment,
accounted for approximately 10% of the Registrant's net revenues in 1994.

            Contracts for government sales generally contain provisions for
cancellation at the convenience of the government.  In addition, companies
engaged in supplying military equipment to the government are dependent on
congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, and may be
affected by changes in government policies resulting from various military and
political developments.  See "ITEM 3.  Legal Proceedings."

Backlog
- -------
            The dollar amount of backlog of orders believed by the Registrant
to be firm was $3913 million as of December 31, 1994 and $3805 million as of
December 31, 1993.  Approximately 24% of the 1994 backlog (involving defense
electronics) is not expected to be filled within the current fiscal year.  The
backlog is significant in the business of the Registrant only as an indication
of future revenues which may be entered on the books of account of the
Registrant. 
 



Raw Materials
- -------------
            The Registrant purchases materials, parts and supplies from a
number of suppliers.  In addition, the Registrant produces some materials,
parts and supplies, such as silicon wafers used in the manufacture of
semiconductors, for its own use.  The materials, parts and supplies essential
to the Registrant's business are generally available at present and the
Registrant believes at this time that such materials, parts and supplies will
be available in the foreseeable future.

Patents and Trademarks
- ----------------------
            The Registrant owns many patents in the United States and other
countries in fields relating to its businesses.  The Registrant has developed
a strong, broad-based patent portfolio.  The Registrant also has several
agreements with other companies involving license rights and anticipates that
other licenses may be negotiated in the future.  The Registrant does not
consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent
license, although taken as a whole, the rights of the Registrant and the
products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to the
Registrant's business.  As noted above, the Registrant's patent portfolio has
been established as an ongoing contributor to the revenues of the Registrant. 
See "ITEM 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" and "ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings."

            The Registrant owns trademarks that are used in the conduct of its
business.  These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which
are "Texas Instruments" and the Registrant's corporate monogram.

Research and Development
- ------------------------
            Expenditures for research and development were $1045 million in
1994 compared with $981 million in 1993 and $891 million in 1992.  Of these
amounts, $689 million was company funded in 1994, ($590 million in 1993 and
$470 million in 1992), and $356 million in 1994 ($391 million in 1993 and $421
million in 1992) was funded by others, principally the U.S. government.

Seasonality
- -----------
            The Registrant's revenues are subject to some seasonal variation.

Employees
- ---------
            The information concerning the number of persons employed by the
Registrant at December 31, 1994 on page 41 of the Registrant's 1994 annual
report to stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such annual
report.

                                      






ITEM 2.     Properties.

            The Registrant's principal offices are located at 13500 North
Central Expressway, Dallas, Texas.  The Registrant owns and leases plants in
the United States and 17 other countries for manufacturing and related
purposes.  The following table indicates the general location of the principal
plants of the Registrant and the industry segments which make major use of
them.  Except as otherwise indicated, the principal plants are owned by the
Registrant. 


            The Registrant's facilities in the United States contained
approximately 18,500,000 square feet as of December 31, 1994, of which
approximately 4,400,000 square feet were leased.  The Registrant's facilities
outside the United States contained approximately 6,500,000 square feet as of
December 31, 1994, of which approximately 1,600,000 square feet were leased. 

            The Registrant believes that its existing properties are in good
condition and suitable for the manufacture of its products. The Registrant's
facility in Denton, Texas is being marketed for sale.  Otherwise, at the end
of 1994, the Registrant utilized substantially all of the space in its
facilities. 

            Leases covering the Registrant's leased facilities expire at
varying dates generally within the next 15 years.  The Registrant anticipates
no difficulty in either retaining occupancy through lease renewals, month-to-
month occupancy or purchases of leased facilities, or replacing the leased
facilities with equivalent facilities.







ITEM 3.     Legal Proceedings.

            On July 19, 1991, the Registrant filed a lawsuit in Tokyo District
Court against Fujitsu Limited ( Fujitsu ) seeking injunctive relief, alleging
that Fujitsu's manufacture and sale of certain DRAMs infringe the Registrant's
Japanese patent on the invention of the integrated circuit (the  Kilby 
patent).  Concurrently, Fujitsu brought a lawsuit in the same court against
the Registrant, seeking a declaration that Fujitsu is not infringing the Kilby
patent. On August 31, 1994, the district court ruled that Fujitsu's production
of 1-megabit and 4-megabit DRAMs and 32K EPROMs does not infringe the Kilby
patent.  The Registrant has appealed the court's decision to the Tokyo High
Court.

            The Registrant is included among a number of U.S. defense
contractors which are currently the subject of U.S. government investigations
regarding alleged procurement irregularities.  The Registrant is unable to
predict the outcome of the investigations at this time or to estimate the
kinds or amounts of claims or other actions that could be instituted against
the Registrant.  Under present government procurement regulations, such
investigations could lead to a government contractor's being suspended or
debarred from eligibility for awards of new government contracts for an
initial period of up to three years.  In the current environment, even
matters that seem limited to disputes about contract interpretation can result
in criminal prosecution.  While criminal charges against contractors have
resulted from such investigations, the Registrant does not believe such
charges would be appropriate in its case and has not, at any time, lost its
eligibility to enter into government contracts or subcontracts under these
regulations.

            The Registrant is involved in various investigations and
proceedings conducted by the federal Environmental Protection Agency and
certain state environmental agencies regarding disposal of waste materials.
Although the factual situations and the progress of each of these matters
differ, the Registrant believes that in each case its liability will be
limited to sharing clean-up or other remedial costs with other potentially
responsible parties, in amounts that will not have a material adverse effect
upon its financial position or results of operations.



ITEM 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. 

             Not applicable.

                   Executive Officers of the Registrant

            The following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the
executive officers of the Registrant and the positions or offices with the
Registrant presently held by each person named:

       Name                   Age        Position

Richard J. Agnich             51           Senior Vice President, Secretary
                                           and General Counsel

William A. Aylesworth         52           Senior Vice President, Treasurer
                                           and Chief Financial Officer

Nicholas K. Brookes           47           Vice President (President,
                                           Materials & Controls Group)

Gary D. Clubb                 48           Executive Vice President(President,
                                           Defense Systems & Electronics
                                           Group)

Thomas J. Engibous            42           Executive Vice President           

                                           (President, Semiconductor Group)

William F. Hayes              51           Executive Vice President

Jerry R. Junkins              57           Director; Chairman of the Board,
                                           President and Chief Executive
                                         Officer

Marvin M. Lane, Jr.           60           Vice President and Corporate
                                           Controller

David D. Martin               55           Executive Vice President

William B. Mitchell           59           Director; Vice Chairman

Charles F. Nielson            57           Vice President

Elwin L. Skiles, Jr.          53           Vice President

William P. Weber              54           Director; Vice Chairman



     The term of office of each of the above listed officers is from the date
of his election until his successor shall have been elected and qualified and
the most recent date of election of each of them was April 21, 1994.   Messrs.
Agnich, Aylesworth, Junkins, Lane, Martin, Mitchell and Weber   have served as
officers of the Registrant for more than five years.  Messrs. Hayes, Nielson
and Skiles have served as officers of the Registrant since 1991, 1990 and
1992, respectively; and they and Messrs. Brookes, Clubb and Engibous have been
employees of the Registrant for more than five years.




                                  PART II

ITEM 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters.

          The information which is contained under the caption "Common Stock
Prices and Dividends" on page 45 of the Registrant's 1994 annual report to
stockholders, and the information concerning the number of stockholders of
record at December 31, 1994 on page 41 of such annual report, are incorporated
herein by reference to such annual report. 

ITEM 6.   Selected Financial Data.

          The "Summary of Selected Financial Data" for the years 1990
through 1994 which appears on page 41 of the Registrant's 1994 annual report
to stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such annual report.

ITEM 7.     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
            Results of Operations.

          The Letter to the Stockholders on pages 3-5 of the Registrant's
1994 annual report to stockholders and the information contained under the
caption "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" on pages 42-44  of such annual report are incorporated herein
by reference to such annual report.

          On March 1, 1995, the Registrant announced it expects the
worldwide semiconductor market to grow 21 percent to $124 billion in 1995.
The semiconductor market grew 32 percent in 1994 to $102 billion.



          
ITEM 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

          The consolidated financial statements of the Registrant at
December 31, 1994 and 1993 and for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1994 and the report thereon of the independent auditors, on pages
26-40 of the Registrant's 1994 annual report to stockholders, are incorporated
herein by reference to such annual report.

          The "Quarterly Financial Data" on page 45 of the Registrant's 1994
annual report to stockholders is also incorporated herein by reference to such
annual report.

ITEM 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure.

          Not applicable.

                                 PART III

ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

          The information with respect to directors' names, ages, positions,
term of office and periods of service, which is contained under the caption
"Nominees for Directorship" in the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1995
annual meeting of stockholders, and the information contained in the first two
paragraphs under the caption "Other Matters" in such proxy statement, are
incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.

          Information concerning executive officers is set forth in Part I
hereof under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation.

          The information which is contained under the captions "Directors
Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" in the Registrant's proxy statement
for the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference to such proxy statement.

ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

          The information concerning (a) the only persons that have reported
beneficial ownership of more than 5% of the common stock of the Registrant,
and (b) the ownership of the Registrant's common stock by the Chief Executive
Officer and the four other most highly compensated executive officers, and all
executive officers and directors as a group, which is contained under the
caption "Voting Securities" in the Registrant's proxy statement for the 1995
annual meeting of stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference to such
proxy statement. The information concerning ownership of the Registrant's
common stock by each of the directors, which is contained under the caption
"Nominees for Directorship" in such proxy statement, is also incorporated
herein by reference to such proxy statement.

          The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the Registrant shown on the cover page hereof excludes the shares held by
the Registrant's directors, some of whom disclaim affiliate status, executive
vice presidents and senior vice presidents. These holdings were considered to
include shares credited to certain individuals' profit sharing accounts.

ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

          Not applicable.



                                  PART IV

ITEM 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

         (a)  1 and 2.  Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule

                        The financial statements and financial statement
                        schedule are listed in the index on page 15 hereof.

               3.  Exhibits

               (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

                    None.
                                       






                              SIGNATURE

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED

                                             By:  JERRY R. JUNKINS    
                                                  ---------------------
                                                  Jerry R. Junkins
                                                  Chairman of the Board,
                                                  President and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

Date:  March 16, 1995




         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 16th day of March, 1995.




          JAMES R. ADAMS                           DAVID M. RODERICK
- ------------------------------------      ------------------------------------
          James R. Adams                           David M. Roderick
            Director                                    Director
                            
       
          DAVID L. BOREN                             GLORIA M. SHATTO
- ------------------------------------      ------------------------------------
          David L. Boren                             Gloria M. Shatto
            Director                                     Director
                                                
  
                                                     WILLIAM P. WEBER
- ------------------------------------      ------------------------------------
        James B. Busey IV                            William P. Weber
            Director                            Vice Chairman; Director


     GERALD W. FRONTERHOUSE                        CLAYTON K. YEUTTER
- ------------------------------------      ------------------------------------
     Gerald W. Fronterhouse                        Clayton K. Yeutter
           Director                                     Director


        JERRY R. JUNKINS                          WILLIAM A. AYLESWORTH
- -------------------------------------     ------------------------------------
        Jerry R. Junkins                          William A. Aylesworth
Chairman of the Board; President;           Senior Vice President; Treasurer;
Chief Executive Officer; Director                Chief Financial Officer


         WILLIAM S. LEE                           MARVIN M. LANE, JR.
- -------------------------------------     ------------------------------------
         William S. Lee                           Marvin M. Lane, Jr.
            Director                      Vice President; Corporate Controller
                                               

         WILLIAM B. MITCHELL                                      
- ------------------------------------
         William B. Mitchell
       Vice Chairman; Director
       





                                        





         



                 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                                  (Item 14(a))



     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is
not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.

                                                            

                                                       SCHEDULE II
                                                       ------------


             TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES
                        (In Millions of Dollars)
              Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992







                                                                  
            



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX




