Item 1.Business



General Development of Business



Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (also referred to in this document as “Thermo Fisher,” “we,” the “company,” or the “registrant”) is the world leader in serving science. Our mission is to enable our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner and safer by providing analytical instruments, equipment, reagents and consumables, software and services for research, manufacturing, analysis, discovery and diagnostics.



In November 2006, Thermo Electron Corporation (also referred to in this document as “Thermo,” which is the predecessor to Thermo Fisher) merged with Fisher Scientific International Inc. (also referred to in this document as “Fisher”) to create Thermo Fisher. Thermo Fisher has approximately 38,900 employees and serves more than 350,000 customers within pharmaceutical and biotech companies, hospitals and clinical diagnostic labs, universities, research institutions and government agencies, as well as environmental, industrial quality and process control settings.



We serve our customers through three premier brands, Thermo Scientific, Fisher Scientific and Unity Lab Services:



•Thermo Scientific is our technology brand, offering customers a complete range of high-end analytical instruments as well as laboratory equipment, software, services, consumables and reagents. Our portfolio of products includes innovative technologies for mass spectrometry, elemental analysis, molecular spectroscopy, sample preparation, informatics, chemical research and analysis, cell culture, bioprocess production, cellular, protein and molecular biology research, allergy testing, drugs-of-abuse testing, therapeutic drug monitoring testing, microbiology, anatomical pathology, transplant diagnostics, as well as environmental monitoring and process control.



•Fisher Scientific is our channels brand, offering customers a complete portfolio of laboratory equipment, chemicals, supplies and services used in scientific research, healthcare, safety and education markets. These products are offered through an extensive network of direct sales professionals, industry-specific catalogs, e-commerce capabilities and supply-chain management services. We also offer a range of biopharma services for clinical trials management and biospecimen storage.



•Unity Lab Services is our services brand, offering a complete portfolio of services from enterprise level engagements to individual instruments and laboratory equipment, regardless of the original manufacturer. Our services are designed to help our customers improve productivity, reduce costs and drive decisions with better data and information. Unity Lab Services offers a network of world-class service and support personnel with proven expertise to provide our customers with solutions that improve their laboratory operations.



In addition to our three premier brands, we offer a number of specialty brands that cover a range of products.



We continuously increase our depth of capabilities in technologies, software and services, and leverage our extensive global channels to address our customers’ emerging needs. Our goal is to make our customers more productive in an increasingly competitive business environment, and to allow them to solve their challenges, from complex research to improved patient care, environmental and process monitoring, and consumer safety.



Thermo Fisher is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1956. The company completed its initial public offering in 1967 and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1980.





Financial Statement Index3


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)



Forward-looking Statements



Forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), are made throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. While the company may elect to update forward-looking statements in the future, it specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if the company’s estimates change, and readers should not rely on those forward-looking statements as representing the company’s views as of any date subsequent to the date of the filing of this report.



A number of important factors could cause the results of the company to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including those detailed under the heading, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.



Business Segments and Products



We report our business in three segments: Analytical Technologies; Specialty Diagnostics; and Laboratory Products and Services. For financial information about these segments, including domestic and international operations, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which begin on page F-1 of this report.



Analytical Technologies Segment



Through our Analytical Technologies Segment, we provide a broad offering of instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that are used for a range of applications in the laboratory, on the production line and in the field. These products are used by customers in all four of our key end markets: pharmaceutical and biotechnology; academic and government; industrial and applied; and healthcare and diagnostics. This segment includes four primary businesses – Chromatography and Mass Spectrometry, Chemical Analysis, Environmental and Process Instruments, and Biosciences.



Chromatography and Mass Spectrometry



Our chromatography and mass spectrometry business provides analytical instrumentation for organic and inorganic sample analysis. These products are complemented by laboratory information management systems (LIMS); chromatography data systems (CDS); database analytical tools; automation systems; and a range of consumables, such as a full line of chromatography columns.



Mass spectrometry (MS) is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming charged ions that are then analyzed according to their mass-to-charge ratios. In addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. Our comprehensive offering includes life sciences mass spectrometry systems; inorganic mass spectrometry systems; and elemental analysis instrumentation; as well as a range of sample preparation and separation products including auto-samplers and multiplexing systems.



•Life Sciences Mass Spectrometersinclude three major product lines: triple quadrupole, ion trap and hybrid systems. Our triple quadrupole systems provide high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. They are also used by the pharmaceutical industry for targeted quantitation during drug discovery. Our ion trap systems are used for in-depth structural analysis of large biomolecules, such as proteins, as well as structural characterization of small molecules, such as drugs and drug metabolites. Our hybrid (LC/MS/MS) mass spectrometers combine linear ion trap, quadrupole and Orbitrap technologies to provide high resolution and accurate mass capabilities for both research and applied markets and are well suited for drug metabolism, proteomics, environmental analysis, food safety, toxicology and clinical research applications.





Financial Statement Index4


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

•Inorganic Mass Spectrometersinclude four product lines: isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS); multi-collector mass spectrometry (MC/IRMS); inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP/MS); and high resolution trace mass spectrometry (HR Trace/MS). These products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications, including environmental analysis, materials science and earth sciences.



Chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on their specific physical and chemical characteristics. Our chromatography product line includes high performance liquid chromatography, ion chromatography and gas chromatography systems, all of which are supported by our Chromeleon chromatography data system software. Our comprehensive array of consumables and environmental sampling products complete the workflow solution.



•Liquid Chromatography (LC) Systemsanalyze complex sample matrices in liquids. Our high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and ultrahigh pressure liquid chromatography (UHPLC) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity and are sold either as stand-alone systems or integrated with our mass spectrometers (LC/MS and LC/MS/MS). These systems are used for a range of applications, from complex proteomic analyses to routine industrial QA/QC.



•Ion Chromatography (IC) Systemsseparate ionic (charged) or highly polar molecules (e.g., sugars and carbohydrates), usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detect them based on their electrical conductivity. Our IC products are used in a wide range of applications, including scientific research, and environmental testing, as well as quality control in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and other industrial processes.



•Gas Chromatography (GC) Systemsanalyze complex sample matrices in gases, comprising both separation and detection technology. Separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (GC) or with different types of mass spectrometers (GC/MS). Our GC/MS offering includes a triple stage quadrupole, a single stage quadrupole, and an ion trap, for a range of applications, including food safety testing, quantitative screening of environmental samples, and complex molecular analyses.



Our elemental analysis spectrometers include two product lines: atomic absorption (AA) and inductively coupled plasma (ICP) systems, which use atomic spectroscopy techniques to identify trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples primarily in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology research applications. These products are widely used in growth markets such as China, India and Latin America to support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations.



Chemical Analysis



Our chemical analysis products fall into three main categories: materials and minerals; molecular spectroscopy; and portable analytical instruments. Customers use these products to quickly and accurately analyze the composition of materials in small samples to optimize workflows in academic, life sciences, pharmaceutical, and industrial applications. Our product lines range from those used in the laboratory for research or forensics, to those used on the production line to improve quality and efficiency, to portable systems for rapid and real-time identification in the field.



•Materials and Minerals Productsinclude bench-top, production line, and stand-alone systems for a range of industrial applications. For example, our laboratory elemental analyzers use X-ray fluorescence (XRF), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and arc spark optical emission (OES) techniques for accurate and precise analysis of bulk materials in the metals, cement, minerals, and petrochemicals industries. We also offer on line analyzers that employ neutron activation and measurement of gamma rays to analyze bulk materials non-invasively and in real time, as well as systems that enable high-speed weighing during bulk materials handling. We also offer gauging systems that employ ionizing and non-ionizing technologies to measure the total thickness, basis weight and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as steel, plastics, foil, rubber and glass.





Financial Statement Index5


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

•Molecular Spectroscopy Productsare divided into four primary techniques: Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), Raman, near-infrared (NIR) and ultraviolet/visible (UV/Vis) spectroscopy. These technologies are typically used in the laboratory to provide information on the structure of molecules to identify, verify and quantify organic materials in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical, and forensic sciences. Our material analysis products include rheometers and extruders that measure viscosity, elasticity, processability, and temperature-related mechanical changes of various materials. We also provide a range of surface analysis products commonly used in the semiconductor, metals, coatings, and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis tool.



•Portable Analytical Instrumentsare rugged handheld products that provide rapid, precise, real-time analysis at the point of need. Our two main product categories are elemental and optical analyzers. Our portable elemental analyzers use XRF technology for identifying metal alloys in scrap metal recycling; QA/QC; precious metals analysis; environmental analysis; and lead screening in a range of consumer products. Our portable optical analyzers utilize Raman, FTIR and NIR technologies for use in the field by first responders, and law enforcement and military personnel who need to quickly and accurately identify chemicals and explosives in critical safety and security situations. Other applications include QA/QC in pharmaceutical production and identification of counterfeit drugs.



Environmental and Process Instruments



Our environmental and process instruments help our customers comply with government regulations and industry safety standards; analyze, measure or respond to hazardous situations; and improve product quality or increase process efficiency.



Our environmental analysis instruments include portable and fixed instrumentation that help our customers protect people and the environment, with particular focus on environmental compliance, product quality, and worker safety and security.



•Radiation Measurement and Security Instrumentsare used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation and trace explosives in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical, and security applications. Our primary customers include national, regional, and local government agencies responsible for monitoring cargo, vehicles and people traveling across borders. These products are also used by first-responders in safety and security situations, and for worker safety in the nuclear power and other industrial markets.



•Environmental and Process Monitoring Instrumentsare used by environmental regulatory agencies and power plant operators to measure ambient air, stack gas emissions, and particulates to comply with regulated emissions standards. Our products are also used in process monitoring applications by customers in natural gas, petrochemical, refining, and a wide variety of other industrial markets to provide measurements that improve efficiency, provide process and quality control, and increase worker safety.



For environmental monitoring, we provide single instruments as well as customized Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems that monitor, collect and report data from multiple locations. Our gas detection instruments detect criteria pollutants, such as nitrogen oxide, at the parts-per-trillion level. In addition, we offer particulate and gas detection monitoring instruments for worker protection used by industrial hygienists, first responders and homeland security personnel.



For process monitoring, our instruments allow process optimization and control by providing real-time direct and remote data collection, analysis, and local control functions using a variety of technologies, including radiation, radar, ultrasonic and vibration measurement principles, gas chromatography, and mass spectrometry.





Financial Statement Index6


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

•Water Analysis Instrumentsinclude meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of pH, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key parameters in the lab and production line. Based upon electrochemical and optical sensing technologies, these products are used wherever the quality of water and water-based products or processes are critical, such as QA/QC in the food and beverage industry, chemical and pharmaceutical production, and for environmental compliance.



•Product Inspectionproducts help customers monitor processes and operations in the food and beverage, pharmaceutical production and packaging industries to maintain safety and quality standards. Based on a variety of technologies such as X-ray imaging and ultra-trace chemical detection, these products are used to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts on line and at high speeds.



Biosciences



Our biosciences offerings include reagents, instruments and consumables that help our customers conduct biological and medical research, discover and produce new drugs and vaccines, and diagnose disease. These products fall into three main categories: life science research, chemicals and bioprocess production.



•Life Science Researchreagents, instruments, and consumables are used for cell culture, protein, biology, molecular biology, and cell biology research and applied testing. The portfolio includes cell culture serum and media; antibodies and products for protein purification, detection, modification, and analysis; products for nucleic acid sequencing, detection and purification, cloning and analysis, RNA interference and gene expression; and cellular imaging instruments and software reagents for high content analysis. Many of these products are also used in applied markets, including agriculture, forensics, diagnostics product development, and toxicology research.



•Chemicalscomprises a broad range of chemicals, solvents and reagents supporting virtually every laboratory application – from research to drug discovery and development and manufacturing. This portfolio includes organic chemicals used to synthesize new materials; essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products; high purity analytical reagents, bioreagents used in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis; and novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries used to accelerate drug discovery. We provide bulk volumes of many products for scale-up from research to development and customized services for chemical procurement, processing, production, testing, and packaging.



•BioProcess Productionproducts include customized, single-use containers and single-use bioreactor systems, liquid and dry powder cell-culture media (serum-free, chemically defined, protein-free, and animal derived component-free media), sera and process liquids. These products are used in the production of human and animal vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, protein-based therapeutics and products for wound healing. Available in turnkey and open architecture formats, these systems have been specifically qualified for bioprocess production applications in the biopharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries. Custom services are also available for media and feed formulation media optimization, analytical services, production method development and optimization, rapid prototyping, and supply chain management.



Specialty Diagnostics Segment



Our Specialty Diagnostics Segment offers a wide range of diagnostic test kits, reagents, culture media, instruments and associated products in order to serve customers in healthcare, clinical, pharmaceutical, industrial, and food safety laboratories. Our healthcare products are used to increase the speed and accuracy of diagnoses, which





Financial Statement Index7


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

improves patient care in a more cost efficient manner. This segment has six primary businesses – ImmunoDiagnostics, Clinical Diagnostics, Transplant Diagnostics, Microbiology, Anatomical Pathology, and our Healthcare Market Channel.



ImmunoDiagnostics



Our immunodiagnostics offerings include developing, manufacturing and marketing complete blood-test systems to support the clinical diagnosis and monitoring of allergy, asthma and autoimmune diseases. Unlike skin prick tests, ourin vitroallergy diagnostic tests utilize flexible systems which provide for convenient and accurate allergy diagnoses on low and high-throughput automation. In addition, we now can offer antibody tests for approximately 20 indications to help diagnose autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, lupus and scleroderma. These allergy and autoimmunity product lines operate on a common instrument platform which supports both productivity and cost efficiencies in clinical laboratories around the world. Our products include ImmunoCAP for allergy and asthma tests and EliA for autoimmunity tests.



Clinical Diagnostics



Our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostic reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. In particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; first trimester screening; tumor markers testing; and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. We also private label many of our reagents and controls for majorin vitrodiagnostics companies through OEM arrangements. In many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms.



We have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays. We also offer a line of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers.



Our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. Our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. We also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis, and specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening.



Transplant Diagnostics



With our recent acquisition of One Lambda, we acquired the world leader in human leukocyte antigen (“HLA”) typing and testing for the organ transplant market. Our diagnostic tests are used by transplant centers for tissue typing, primarily to determine the compatibility of donors and recipients pre-transplant, and to detect the presence of antibodies post-transplant that can lead to transplant rejection. These transplant diagnostic tests are widely used across the transplant-testing workflow to improve patient outcomes. Our transplant diagnostic offerings include several lines of HLA typing and antibody detection assays utilizing serological, molecular, ELISA, flow, and Luminex xMAP technologies.



Microbiology



Our microbiology offerings include dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, instrumentation and consumables to detect pathogens in blood, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. Our products help customers worldwide to diagnose infectious disease; determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy; implement effective infection control programs; and detect microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities.





Financial Statement Index8


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

Within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments; raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination; and animal health in the dairy industry.



Anatomical Pathology



Our anatomical pathology offerings include a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. These products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. Reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity; tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing; blades and paraffin used to section tissue; and a wide range of leading stains. Also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls.



We also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing; tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing; superior reagent management and higher lab efficiency; embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue; and automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. In cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented EZ cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology. We manufacture high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass, and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics, and scientific communities. We also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive, and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques.



Healthcare Market Channel



Our Healthcare Market channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians’ offices and other clinical testing facilities. These products are manufactured by Thermo Fisher and third parties.



Healthcare Market products and solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples. Major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic, and cardiac risk management solutions; blood collection devices; and an extensive portfolio of rapid diagnostic testing kits.



Laboratory Products and Services Segment



Our Laboratory Products and Services segment offers virtually everything needed for the laboratory. Our unique combination of self-manufactured and sourced products and extensive service offering enables our customers to focus on their core activities and helps them to be more efficient, productive and cost effective. We serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory through four key businesses: Laboratory Equipment, Laboratory Consumables, Research and Safety Market Channel, and BioPharma Services.



Laboratory Equipment



Our Laboratory Equipment products are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance quality of life. This offering consists of equipment, accessories, and services for sample preparation, storage and protection, and analysis, with product categories including:



•Sample Preparation and Preservation Equipmentprotects our customers’ chemical and biological samples and supports the growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions such as temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity. This offering includes a comprehensive range of incubators and other related products.





Financial Statement Index9


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

•Cold Storage Equipmentsuch as our leading laboratory refrigerators and freezers, ultralow-temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks maintain samples in a cold environment to protect them from degradation.



•Centrifugation Productsare used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials. Our broad range includes microcentrifuges, which are used primarily for the purification of nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory; general use bench-top centrifuges for processing clinical samples such as blood and urine; and our floor models, which are used for large-volume blood processing or in laboratories with high-throughput needs. Our super-speed and ultra-speed models are used for applications such as protein purification.



•Biological Safety Cabinetsenable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. These cabinets, equipped with filtered-air ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source, can be used for tissue culture; handling of infectious samples; forensic analysis; bioterrorism research; and other applications.



•Temperature Control Productsinclude heated bath circulators, immersion coolers, recirculating chillers, water baths, and dry baths in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality-control applications.



•Other Laboratory Equipmentincludes water purification systems, shakers, vacuum concentrators, microbiological incubators, ovens, furnaces, hotplates, stirrers, stirring hotplates, and other related products.



Laboratory Consumables



Our laboratory consumables products include plastics, glass and related equipment, which customers use every day to support their scientific research; drug discovery and development; quality and process control; and clinical and basic research and development needs. Our product categories include cell culture and bioproduction; sample preparation and storage; liquid handling; detection instruments; and specialty products and services.



•Cell Culture and Bioproduction Productssupport customers in research to production-scale activities. We offer a broad range of surface technologies for different application needs, including applications with traditional stem cell and human stem cell lines. Products include chamber slides, dishes, multidishes, flasks and gas permeable technologies. We also offer a complete line of serological pipettes and conical tubes to address cell-culture sample handling, as well as cell factories and roller bottles, which are widely used in the manufacture of vaccines and biotherapeutics.



•Sample Preparation and Storage Productsinclude a full line of centrifugation consumables as well as vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, with specific products designed for low protein binding and low DNA binding. We also offer containers for packaging life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients.



•Liquid Handling Productsinclude a leading offering of laboratory pipette tips and a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems, supporting low- through high-throughput activity. These products optimize productivity and ergonomics, and ensure accurate results.



•Detection Instrumentsinclude microplate readers, washers, purification systems, and PCR and qPCR instruments. These instruments offer researchers in the fields of cancer research, drug development, proteomics, and genomics efficiency, high-quality performance and accurate results.



•Specialty Products and Servicesinclude a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, drug-of-abuse collection kits and environmental and food-safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers. We also manufacture plastic transfer pipettes and general purpose clinical laboratory consumables.





Financial Statement Index10


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

We also offer containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists. In addition, we provide OEM and custom kit assembly services for clinical and drugs-of-abuse test kits.



Research and Safety Market Channel



Our Research and Safety Market channel serves academic, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, government and industrial customers. We go to market through our broad sales force, more than 3 million printed catalogs in eight different languages, a state-of-the-art website, www.fishersci.com, containing full product content for more than 370,000 products, and our global network of resellers and distributors. The Fisher Scientific catalog has been published for more than 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource.



We have an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. With specialized product vaults and warehouse management systems, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. Our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. Throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems allowing for automated catalog search, product order and invoicing and payment capabilities.



Our channel offers a mix of products that are manufactured by Thermo Fisher, by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. We also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis.



We offer a wide range of products and services from a single source designed to enable our customers to engage more accurately, efficiently and safely in laboratory research and development, manufacturing, testing and other services throughout the world. Our research products include all forms of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. Our safety products include clean-room and controlled-environment supplies, personal protective equipment, firefighting, military, and first responder equipment and supplies, and environmental monitoring and sampling equipment. Our education products include science-related and laboratory products for the K – 12 and secondary education market.



Our Cole-Parmer offerings include a wide variety of laboratory and industrial fluid-handling products, instrumentation, equipment, and supplies for the industrial, government, academic, biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare markets.



Our Doe & Ingalls offerings include chemical distribution and supply chain services that help life science and advanced technology manufacturers have reliable, secure supply chains for their chemical raw materials.



In addition to our broad product offerings, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our Unity Lab Services team, including training, equipment servicing and asset management, and dedicated supply management personnel that manage the procurement, movement and inventory of laboratory supplies to streamline processes, increase resource availability and reduce inventory management costs. Available scientific support services include desktop delivery, coordination of instrument calibration and service, and on-site customer service. By providing these services, we enable our customers to focus on their core research and business activities.



BioPharma Services



Our BioPharma Services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including specialized packaging; over-encapsulation; multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase I through phase IV clinical trials; biological-specimen management; specialty pharmaceutical logistics; and clinical supply-chain management. Thermo Fisher’s biorepository business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. Our biorepository services business stores pharmacological and



Financial Statement Index11


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)biospecimen samples at commercial sites. Additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities, resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution.



Sales and Marketing



We market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs.



We have approximately 12,600 sales and service personnel including over 1,000 highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. We also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs.



New Products and Research and Development



Our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. We are not currently committed to any new products that require the investment of a material amount of our funds, nor do we have any definitive plans to enter new businesses that would require such an investment.



During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we spent $376 million, $340 million and $284 million, respectively, on research and development.



Raw Materials



Our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. We do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business.



Raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. We employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results.



Patents, Licenses and Trademarks



Patents are important in all three segments of our business. No particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel and incorporated into our products or otherwise falling within our fields of interest. Patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts.



We protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. We also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how.



Seasonal Influences



Revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. Sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of flu season. Sales of allergy tests vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of airborne pollen allergens.



Working Capital Requirements



There are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital.





Financial Statement Index12


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

Dependency on a Single Customer



There is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. No customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years.



Backlog



Our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2012 and 2011 was as follows:



(In millions)20122011Analytical Technologies$1,025.0$972.0Specialty Diagnostics187.0166.7Laboratory Products and Services381.0368.0Eliminations(15.4)(17.5)$1,577.6$1,489.2



We believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2012 will be filled during 2013.



Government Contracts



Although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial results.



Competition



The company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. Because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. Our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. In general, competitive climates in the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. Our success in these markets primarily depends on the following factors:



·technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios;



·product differentiation, availability and reliability;



·the depth of our capabilities;



·our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services;



·customer service and support;



·active research and application-development programs; and



·relative prices of our products and services.



Environmental Matters



We are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the United States and other countries. U.S. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). We are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations.





Financial Statement Index13


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements.



A number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. Consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses.



Our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. Based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. For historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures.



Our Fair Lawn and Somerville, New Jersey, facilities are the subject of administrative consent orders issued by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection in 1984. Our Rockford, Illinois, facility is subject to a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) corrective action program administered by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. We are required to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites. As the owner of the Fair Lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the Fair Lawn Wellfields Superfund Site.



We record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. We calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management’s knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. We include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. Accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $23 million at December 31, 2012. The liability for environmental matters associated with Fisher was recorded at the date of merger at its fair value and as such was discounted to its net present value.



These environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. We believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. As a result, we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, we may be subject to additional remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



Regulatory Affairs



Our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Food and Drug Administration, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. As Thermo Fisher’s businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the U.S. Departments of Commerce, State and Treasury. In addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the Department of Transportation, the Federal Aviation Administration and similar foreign agencies. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. To date, none has had a material impact on our operations.





Financial Statement Index14


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment.



Number of Employees



As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 38,900 employees.



Financial Information About Geographic Areas



Financial information about geographic areas is summarized in Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which begin on page F-1 of this report.



Available Information



The company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Exchange Act. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its Investor Relations Department at our principal executive office located at 81 Wyman Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451.





Financial Statement Index15


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Business (continued)

Executive Officers of the Registrant



NameAgePresent Title (Fiscal Year First Became Executive Officer)Marc N. Casper44President and Chief Executive Officer (2001)Alan J. Malus53Executive Vice President (2006)Seth H. Hoogasian58Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (2001)Thomas W. Loewald49Senior Vice President (2012)Edward A. Pesicka45Senior Vice President (2008)Andrew J. Thomson48Senior Vice President (2012)Peter M. Wilver53Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2003)Peter E. Hornstra53Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (2001)



Mr. Casper was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in October 2009. He was Chief Operating Officer from May 2008 to October 2009 and Executive Vice President from November 2006 to October 2009. He was Senior Vice President from December 2003 to November 2006. From December 2001 to December 2003 he was Vice President.



Mr. Malus was appointed Executive Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President, Analytical Technologies in January 2012. He was President, Laboratory Products from July 2008 to January 2012 and was appointed Senior Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific in November 2006. Prior to Thermo’s merger with Fisher, Mr. Malus was group president of distribution and services for Fisher, where he focused on growing the company’s customer channel businesses serving research, healthcare, education and safety markets. Mr. Malus joined Fisher in 1998 and served in a variety of management roles.



Mr. Hoogasian was appointed Senior Vice President in November 2006, Secretary in 2001 and General Counsel in 1992. He was Vice President from 1996 to November 2006.



Mr. Loewald was appointed Senior Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President, Laboratory Products in January 2012. He was appointed President of the Laboratory Equipment business in August 2008, and was President of the Environmental Instruments business from October 2006 until August 2008.



Mr. Pesicka was appointed Senior Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President, Customer Channels in July 2008. He was President, Research Market from November 2006 to July 2008. Prior to Thermo’s merger with Fisher, Mr. Pesicka was Vice President and General Manager of Fisher’s U.S. research market business from January 2004 to November 2006.



Mr. Thomson was appointed Senior Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President, Specialty Diagnostics in February 2012. He was President of the Clinical Diagnostics business from October 2009 to May 2012 and was Vice President and General Manager for North America for the Microbiology business from January 2009 until October 2009. Before joining Thermo Fisher Scientific, Mr. Thomson spent the prior fifteen years in the diagnostics industry in a variety of marketing and commercial roles of increasing responsibility with Roche Diagnostics and prior to that, Dade Behring.



Mr. Wilver was appointed Senior Vice President in November 2006 and Chief Financial Officer in October 2004. He was Vice President from October 2004 to November 2006.



Mr. Hornstra was appointed Vice President in February 2007 and Chief Accounting Officer in January 2001. He was Corporate Controller from January 1996 to February 2007.





Financial Statement Index16


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



