Item
1.Business



General
Development of Business



Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (also
referred to in this document as “Thermo Fisher,” “we,” the “company,” or the
“registrant”) is the world leader in serving science.Weenable our customers to
make the world healthier, cleaner and safer by providing analytical instruments,
equipment, reagents and consumables, software and services for research,
manufacturing, analysis, discovery and diagnostics.



In November 2006, Thermo Electron
Corporation (also referred to in this document as “Thermo,” which is the
predecessor to Thermo Fisher) merged with Fisher Scientific International Inc.
(also referred to in this document as “Fisher”) to create Thermo Fisher. Thermo
Fisher has approximately 35,400 employees and serves more than 350,000 customers
within pharmaceutical and biotech companies, hospitals and clinical diagnostic
labs, universities, research institutions and government agencies, as well as
environmental, industrial quality and process control settings.



We serve our customers through two
principal brands, Thermo Scientific and Fisher Scientific:



·Thermo
      Scientific is ourtechnologybrand,
      offering customers a complete range of high-end analytical instruments as
      well as laboratory equipment, software, services, consumables and reagents
      to enable integrated laboratory workflow solutions. Our portfolio of
      products includes innovative technologies for mass spectrometry, elemental
      analysis, molecular spectroscopy, sample preparation, informatics, fine-
      and high-purity chemistry production, cell culture, protein analysis,
      RNA-interference techniques, immunodiagnostic testing, microbiology, as
      well as environmental monitoring and process
  control.



·Our
      Fisher Scientific brand offerschoiceandconvenience, providing
      a complete portfolio of laboratory equipment, chemicals, supplies and
      services used in healthcare, scientific research, safety and education
      markets. These products are offered through an extensive network of direct
      sales professionals, industry-specific catalogs, e-commerce capabilities
      and supply-chain management services. We also offer a range of biopharma
      services for clinical trials management, biospecimen storage and
      analytical testing.



In addition to the two principal
brands, we offer a number of specialty brands that cover a range of consumable
products primarily for the life and laboratory sciences industry.



We are continuously advancing the
capabilities of our technologies, software and services, and leveraging our
9,800 sales and service personnel around the world to address our customers’
emerging needs. Our goal is to make our customers more productive, and to allow
them to solve their analytical challenges, from complex research and discovery
to routine testing.



Thermo Fisher is a Delaware corporation
and was incorporated in 1956. The company completed its initial public offering
in 1967 and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1980.



Forward-looking
Statements



Forward-looking statements, within the
meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange
Act), are made throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any statements
contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be
forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words
“believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. While the
company may elect to update forward-looking statements in the future, it
specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if the company’s estimates
change, and readers should not relyon those
forward-looking statements as representing the company’s views as of any date
subsequent to the date of the filing of this report.





Financial Statement Index3


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)



A number of
important factors could cause the results of the company to differ materially
from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including those
detailed under the heading, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.



Business
Segments and Products



We report our business in two
segments: Analytical Technologies and Laboratory Products and Services. For
financial information about segments, including domestic and international
operations and export sales, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements, which begin on page F-1 of this report.



Analytical
Technologies Segment



Through our Analytical Technologies
segment, we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and
other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory and
healthcare industries. This segment has three primary growth platforms –
Analytical Instruments, Specialty Diagnostics and Biosciences – and provides a
broad range of instruments, software and services, bioscience reagents and
diagnostic assays to address various scientific, healthcare, environmental, and
process optimization challenges in laboratories, manufacturing and the
field.



·Analytical
      Instruments include analytical instruments used in the laboratory to
      analyze prepared samples, software interpretation tools, laboratory
      information management systems, and laboratory automation equipment and
      systems; environmental instruments, integrated systems, and services used
      in industrial environments, in the lab, and in the field for continuous
      environmental monitoring, safety and security applications; and process
      instruments, integrated systems and measurement solutions, and services
      used in process environments and in the field to enable real-time process
      control and optimization and materials
analysis.



·Specialty
      Diagnostics products and services are used by healthcare and other
      laboratories to prepare and analyze patient samples to detect and diagnose
      diseases. Microbiology products include high-quality reagents and
      diagnostic kits used in the diagnosis of infectious disease or for testing
      for bacterial contamination to assure the safety and quality of consumer
      products such as food and
pharmaceuticals.



·Biosciences
      products include leading reagents, tools and services used in life science
      research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical
  production.



Analytical
Instruments



Scientific
Instruments





Chromatography
is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical
components of substances based on physical and chemical characteristics specific
to each component. Optical spectroscopy is a technique for analyzing individual
chemical components of substances based on the absorption or emission of
electromagnetic radiation of a specific wavelength of light, for example,
visible (light), ultraviolet or infra-red. We complement our product
technologies with laboratory information management systems (LIMS),
chromatography data systems (CDS), database analytical tools, automation
systems, and a broad portfolio of reagents and consumables from the rest of the
company to deliver integrated work flow solutions that improve the quality and
productivity of research.





Financial Statement Index4


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.

Item 1.Business
(continued)



Our instruments, software, and
workflow solutions are used in a variety of regulated and unregulated industries
in life sciences applications such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, clinical
and food safety, in chemical analysis applications such as environmental,
petrochemicals, chemicals, semiconductor, steel and basic materials, and
geology, as well as in academic and government research. To support our global
installations, we provide implementation, validation, training, maintenance and
support from our large global services network.



Life Science Mass Spectrometry
(LSMS).The company’s Life Sciences Mass Spectrometry product line
features high performance instrumentation for a wide spectrum of markets and
applications. The triple quadrupole, ion trap and hybrid mass spectrometry
(LC/MS/MS) product lines offer tiered portfolios for both qualitative and
quantitative analysis across a broad range of markets including pharmaceutical,
academic research, clinical research, food safety, environmental and toxicology
markets. Applications range in complexity from routine compound identification
in regulated fields such as food safety and environmental screening, to
sophisticated analysis of low-abundance components in complex biological
matrices.



Our triple quadrupole portfolio
provides high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological
fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. Applications for the
pharmaceutical industry include the targeted quantitation of drug candidates in
discovery absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) studies, and
in support of development phase clinical trials where sensitivity, specificity,
precision and accuracy are requirements for submission of pharmacokinetic data
for regulatory approval. The triple quadrupole portfolio is also used for
targeted analysis of pesticides and food contaminants to support regulatory
requirements.



Our ion trap portfolio provides
hardware and software for in depth structural analysis of large bio-molecules,
such as proteins, to structural characterization of small molecules, such as
drugs and drug metabolites.



Hybrid Mass Spectrometers combine
linear ion trap technology, Fourier Transform Ion Cyclotron Resonance Mass
spectrometry (FTICR) and Orbitrap technology, providing high resolution and
accurate mass capabilities in a single mass spectrometry system. The combination
of two powerful capabilities permits sensitive and accurate identification of
compounds in complex matrices. Our Hybrid mass spectrometers are suited for
analysis of complex biological problems such as cellular pathway analysis,
investigation of protein sequence modifications, biomarker discovery for
potential disease markers, evaluation of complex metabolomic systems, and
metabolite identification because of their enhanced selectivity capabilities
from high resolution and accurate mass. This advanced technology has enabled
customers to perform broader biological system analysis which they were
previously unable to perform using other hybrid LC/MS/MS
technologies.



Inorganic Mass Spectrometry
(IOMS).Inorganic MS products are comprised of four product segments:
Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometry (IRMS), Multi-Collector Mass Spectrometry
(MC-IRMS), Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) and High
Resolution Trace Mass Spectrometry (HR Trace-MS). IOMS products are primarily
used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of
applications including environmental analysis, materials science, climate
research, earth science as well as nuclear safeguard and fuel control. All of
our IOMS products are based on sophisticated magnetic sector mass spectrometers,
which are customized to meet the needs of a broad range of
applications.





Financial Statement Index5


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)



In addition, we supply a range of
sample preparation and separation product-lines for mass spectrometry including
auto-samplers, liquid and gas chromatography instruments and columns, and
multi-plexing systems.



Molecular Spectroscopy.Thermo Fisher’s molecular spectroscopy products are divided into four primary
techniques: Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR), Raman, Near-infrared (NIR) and
ultraviolet/visible (UV/Vis) spectroscopy. All four techniques provide
information regarding the structure of molecules and hence provide the means for
the identification, verification and quantification of primarily organic
materials. The instrumentation comprises interferometric and dispersive
spectrometers combined with software that extracts both qualitative and
quantitative information from the raw data. The major applications are found in
pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical and forensic sciences. The
instrumentation is used in research, analytical services and quality control
laboratories. Near-infrared spectroscopy is used in both laboratory QC and
process control applications, making it a technique of choice in process
analytical technology (PAT).



Liquid Chromatography.Our
standard HPLC (High Pressure Liquid Chromatography) systems and high speed UHPLC
(Ultra High Pressure Liquid Chromatography) systems offer high throughput and
sensitivity in the analysis of liquid samples. They are sold either in
stand-alone configurations or as systems-integrated with our mass spectrometers
(LC-MS and LC-MS/MS). The company also has a fast scanning single quadrupole
LC-MS system used primarily in pharmaceutical laboratories as a UHPLC detector,
providing chromatographers the ability to run routine HPLC applications more
efficiently with real-time mass confirmation. These products utilize our
comprehensive line of HPLC columns.



Gas Chromatography.Gas
chromatography (GC) is a separation technique that analyzes complex sample
matrices in gases. GC comprises both separation and detection technology.
Separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is
paired with either a conventional detector (GC) or with different types of mass
spectrometers (GC-MS). Thermo Scientific’s gas chromatographs (GCs) includes a
full range of detectors, injectors, and valve systems for chemical and
petrochemical analysis; and its GCxGC product is used for analysis of target
compounds in complex matrices. Our GC-MS offering includes a triple stage
quadrupole GC-MS, for routine analysis of pesticide residues in food; a single
stage quadrupole MS for quantitative product screening of environmental and
toxicology samples; and an ion trap MS for analysis of target components in
complex matrices. We also offer a wide range of auto samplers that fully
automate GC or GC-MS.



Bulk Elemental Analysis.Thermo Fisher also provides a full range of instrumentation for elemental
analysis of bulk materials such as metals, cement, minerals and petrochemicals
using X-ray fluorescence (XRF), X-Ray diffraction (XRD) and arc spark optical
emission (OES) techniques. Our OES product line is ideal for use in
process/quality control for the direct, elemental analysis of solid
metals.



Our benchtop and standalone XRF
systems for analysis of conductive or non-conductive solids and liquids are used
in many industrial and research laboratories, for monitoring of specific
elements in oils, polymers, cement or quarry materials to the full analysis of
glasses, metals, ores, refractories and geological materials. Our XRD equipment
allows analysis of phases or compounds in crystalline materials. Both XRF and
XRD techniques are integrated into one instrument to provide total analysis
capabilities to the cement, metals and mining industries.



Trace Elemental Analysis.Thermo Fisher offers a line of elemental analysis instrumentation for the
analysis of trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples. Our
atomic absorption (AA) instruments and inductively coupled plasma (ICP)
spectrometers are used for trace elemental analysis of liquid samples in
environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and
clinical/toxicology applications. These products are widely used in growth
markets such as China, India and Latin America and support compliance with
increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety
regulations.





Financial Statement Index6


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)Informatics.Thermo Fisher develops and provides laboratory information management systems
(LIMS) solutions that provide application-specific, purpose-built functionality
in software targeted for certain industries. These industries include
pharmaceutical, petrochemical, chemical, food and beverage, metals and mining,
environmental and water/wastewater, as well as government and academia. Thermo
Fisher is a leader in developing commercial-off-the-shelf solutions designed for
specific industry applications.



Our portfolio includes enterprise
software solutions used in laboratories at leading companies in the
pharmaceutical, oil and gas, environmental, chemical and food and beverage
industries; as well as a range of LIMS products designed for different
applications including for pharmaceutical bioanalytical laboratories; for ADME
and in-vitro testing in early drug discovery and development; for a range of
industrial applications and increasingly by biotechnology laboratories because
of its configurability, patented workflows and plate-handling capabilities; and
for pharmaceutical manufacturing R&D and QA/QC. In addition, we market a
multi-industry enterprise-class system that is tightly integrated with our LIMS
solutions for greater accuracy and consistent reporting of shared data, as well
as increased productivity.



Microanalysis.Thermo Fisher
provides a range of energy-dispersive (EDS) and wavelength-dispersive (WDS)
x-ray analytical instrumentation for electron microscope users. The additions of
EDS and WDS detectors transform the electron microscope from an imaging tool
into a powerful analytical instrument. These detectors make it possible to
rapidly and accurately analyze the elemental distribution of a sample at
resolutions down to the nanometer scale. X–ray microanalysis is a fundamental
technique in a wide range of disciplines such as material science, metallurgy,
biology, geology, forensics and nanotechnology.



Laboratory Automation Solutions.Thermo Fisher is a supplier of automation systems that provide solutions
for the drug discovery and cell research market. With core competencies in
integration, applications and innovation, we work closely with customers to
develop both turnkey products and tailored systems for genomic/ proteomic,
biochemical/cell based assays and drug discovery applications. Our key
technologies include automated storage and incubation, integration platforms,
robotics and software. Advanced automated storage systems offer both low- and
high-volume capacities with full environmental control. Our platforms range from
stand-alone plate stackers and movers to highly flexible robotic solutions that
incorporate advanced analytical and detection equipment and software for
experiment design, control and analysis. Precise and reliable motion control is
achieved through state-of-the-art robotics that improve throughput and walk-away
time.



Surface Analysis.The
principle technique of the surface analysis product range is X-ray Photoelectron
Spectroscopy (XPS). XPS provides detailed quantitative information about the
chemical composition of solid surfaces and interfaces. The product line features
fully integrated instruments, designed for rapid throughput of samples, as well
as user configured systems and component options. The extreme surface
sensitivity of XPS makes it directly applicable to the development of new
materials whose surfaces are chemically engineered on the nanometer scale. The
application field for XPS is wide and varied. XPS is commonly used in the
semi-conductor, metals, coatings and polymer industries as a product development
and failure analysis tool.



Environmental
Instruments



Our environmental analysis
instrumentation offers innovative technologies that are used for complying with
government regulations and industry safety standards, or to analyze, measure or
respond to a hazardous material situation. Our instruments include portable and
fixed instrumentation used to help our customers protect people and the
environment, with particular focus on environmental compliance, product quality,
worker safety and security. Key end markets include coal, fossil fuel and
nuclear-powered electric generation facilities, industrial markets such as pulp
and paper and petrochemical, water and  wastewater municipalities, federal,
state and local agencies, general commercial and academic laboratories, and
transportation security for sites such as ports and airports. Our
instrumentation is used in three primary applications: air quality monitoring
and gas detection, water quality testing and monitoring and radiation
measurement and protection.





Financial Statement Index7


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Radiation Measurement
and Protection.Our radiation measurement and protection instruments are
used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation and trace
explosives in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical and security
applications. In the nuclear power market, our products are used by employees to
monitor exposure, detect personal and asset contamination as well as monitor the
interior and exterior environment. Our industrial applications include
metal recycling, x-ray, and neutron generation, while our security applications
are focused on scanning suspect cargo, vehicles and people and identifying the
source radiation across a wide array of applications globally.



Air Quality Monitoring and Gas
Detection.We are a leader in air quality instruments for ambient air and
stack gas emissions monitoring. Our primary customers and markets include
environmental regulatory agencies responsible for providing gaseous and
particulate pollutant air quality data and combustion based industrial
operations such as power generation complying with governmentally mandated
emissions standards. Additionally, we manufacture a broad range of portable and
stationary particulate and gas detection monitoring instruments used by
industrial hygienists, first responders and homeland security personnel for
worker exposure protection.



Our gas detection instruments
utilize a broad range of optoelectronic technologies to detect criteria
pollutants such as nitrogen oxide at the parts-per-trillion level. Via
technologies such as tapered element oscillation microbalances, beta attenuation
and light scattering, we offer a comprehensive range of continuous particulate
monitors for use in ambient air monitoring networks. We complement our market
leading instrumentation with customized Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems
(CEMS), offering both hardware and complete solutions along with integration,
installation, support, commissioning, certification and training
services.



Water Quality Testing and
Monitoring.Our water quality products include high-quality meters,
electrodes and solutions for the measurement of pH, ions, conductivity,
dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key water parameters. Our meters,
monitors, electrodes and solutions are sold across a broad range of industries.
Based upon electrochemical and optical sensing technologies, these products are
used for laboratory, field and process applications wherever the quality of
water and water-based products is critical. Primary applications include quality
control and assurance, environmental testing and regulatory compliance in
markets such as water and wastewater, food and beverage, chemical,
pharmaceutical, education and power generation.



Process
Instruments



Our Process Instruments products
include instrumentation solutions and services that provide our customers with
real-time data that help them improve product quality, increase process
efficiency, increase product yield, reduce production downtime and reduce raw
material waste. Our products are typically used in mission-critical
manufacturing applications that require high levels of accuracy, reliability and
robustness. We serve a wide variety of global industries including oil and gas,
petrochemical, pharmaceutical, food and beverage consumer products, power
generation, metal, cement, minerals and mining, semiconductor and polymer. Our
major areas of expertise include online and handheld elemental analysis, flat
sheet thickness measurement, in-motion weighing and monitoring, rheological and
thermal analysis, contaminant detection in packaged materials and flow, level
and density measurement. Our Process Instruments include six principal product
lines: material characterization, materials and minerals, portable elemental
analysis, process systems, compliance testing, and product
inspection.







Financial Statement Index8


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Materials and Minerals.Our
materials and minerals product line includes online bulk material analysis
systems for the coal, cement, minerals and other bulk material handling markets.
These products employ proprietary, ultrahigh-speed, non-invasive measurement
technologies that use neutron activation and measurement of gamma rays to
analyze,



Portable Elemental Analysis.Our line of portable XRF elemental analyzers are state-of-the-art handheld
instruments offering real time high-performance analysis. The product platform
is designed for the rapid on-site testing of metals for numerous industrial
applications, including mining, coatings, precious metals and powder samples.
Our product offering is tailored for specific market applications through a
combination of instrument calibrations, x-ray sources and detectors to best
match the desired speed and sensitivity of the analysis. Our geometrically
optimized silicon drift detector delivers increased sensitivity and allows metal
alloy samples to be measured faster and easier than with our other silicon PIN
detectors. The instruments are used for the analysis of metal alloys for
positive material identification, scrap metal recycling, quality
assurance/quality control (QA/QC) and precious metals analysis, as well as
analysis of soils and sediments, environmental monitoring, lead screening in
consumer products, lead in paint assessment, geochemical mapping and
coatings/plating analysis.



Process Systems.Our process
systems products help oil and gas, refining, steel and other customers optimize
their processes. These instruments provide measurements that help improve
efficiency, provide process and quality control, maintain regulatory compliance
and increase worker safety. For instance, our gas flow computers support custody
transfer applications in the production and transmission of natural gas; our
nuclear interface level gauge is used in extremely harsh coker applications for
petroleum refining; our moisture online analyzer helps our customers measure
moisture in extreme applications like coke used in metal foundries, and our line
of process mass spectrometers helps our customers detect minute constituents in
process gases. These systems provide real-time direct and remote data
collection, analysis and local control functions using a variety of
technologies, including radiation, radar, ultrasonic and vibration measurement
principles, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Our online sulfur analyzer
products, based on pulsed UV fluorescence technology, are used by refiners to
bring clean fuels to consumers. We have extended the applications to include
online sulfur detection in the petrochemical environment, including flare gas
composition and catalyst protection.



Product Inspection.Our
product inspection solutions serve the food and beverage, and pharmaceutical
packaging industries. For the food and beverage and pharmaceutical markets, we
provide solutions to help our customers attain safety and quality standards.
Based on a variety of technologies, such as X-ray imaging and ultratrace
chemical detection, our products are used to inspect packaged goods for physical
contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts.
For example, our line of metal detectors uses non-invasive, high-speed, magnetic
flux technology to inspect packaged products; our line of checkweighers uses
load cell technology to weigh packages on high-speed packaging lines; our line
of inspection systems uses X-ray imaging to enable our customers to inspect
canned or bottled beverages at very high speeds.



Material Characterization.Our material characterization product lines include instruments that help
our customers analyze materials for viscosity, surface tension and thermal
properties. Our products accurately and flexibly measure a wide range of
rheological properties in the lab and in process applications. These measurement
platforms use open standards and have the ability to connect to a range of
sensors and systems. Our extruders and blenders meetR&D,
small-scale production, quality control and pharmaceutical needs. Single screw
and twin screw process extruders with measuring capabilities are used in lab and
pilot scale tests for compounding and processing of polymers and ceramics. In
the pharmaceutical markets, our products are used for quality control of the
continuous mixing process.





Financial Statement Index9


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)Compliance
Testing.Our compliance testing product lines provide simulation and
verification equipment for electronic components and systems. Based on pulsed
EMI (Electromagnetic Interference) technology, our products provide testing of
electromagnetic compatibility, electrostatic discharge and transmission line
pulse for original equipment manufacturers in the semiconductor market and
independent testing labs.



Services



We provide a complete portfolio of
services and management solutions designed to help our customers improve
productivity, reduce total cost of ownership of analytical instruments and
ensure compliance. From instrument and equipment acquisition to disposition, we
provide an extensive global service network to support our installed base of
instruments.



From instrument support plans,
preventive and corrective maintenance to instrument qualifications, our product
services are designed to remove the hassle and worry from instrument maintenance
allowing our customers to focus on their goals while increasing positive results
in the lab. Furthermore, our parts, accessories, software and instrument
upgrades provide our customers with the tools necessary to improve productivity
and quality. In addition, our multi-vendor laboratory instrument services
provide our customer complete laboratory support. Certified and experienced
multi vendor service engineers provide instrument qualifications, preventive and
corrective maintenance, validation, regulatory compliance and metrology services
allowing our customer to expand our high quality cost effective instrument
support throughout their operations.



We also provide our customers
enterprise management solutions that streamline the services processes, increase
operational efficiencies while reducing expenses and decreasing total cost of
ownership. With integrated capabilities consisting of equipment maintenance
management, physical inventory tracking and enterprise-wide maintenance
reporting, coupled with direct and multi-vendor service capabilities, our asset
management solutions are customizable to meet the business needs of our
customers. Our asset management solutions model proactively manages all of our
customers’ instruments and equipment so they have visibility to all of their
assets and gain assurance that services are being delivered and performed on
time.



Specialty
Diagnostics



Our Specialty Diagnostics products
and services are used by healthcare laboratories in hospitals, academic and
research institutes, to prepare and analyze patient samples such as blood,
urine, body fluids or tissue sections, to detect and diagnose diseases, such as
cancer. We also provide diagnostic testing services for certain neurological,
renal and endocrine disorders to physicians, hospital laboratories and reference
laboratories.



Microbiology



Our Microbiology offerings include
high-quality microbiology laboratory products, including dehydrated and prepared
culture media, collection and transport systems, diagnostic and rapid direct
specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the
microbiology laboratory. Our products focus on aiding customers in the diagnosis
of infectious disease, implementing effective infection control programs or in
detecting microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing
facilities.





Financial Statement Index10


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

These products are used by
microbiologists worldwide to grow and identify bacteria and to detect viruses
and parasites. Within the clinical field, these products are used to facilitate
a rapid and accurate diagnosis of infectious disease, to determine appropriate
antimicrobial therapy and to aid in the implementation of infection control
programs. Key clinical customers include hospitals, public health and reference
laboratories, clinics and physician offices. Within the food and pharmaceutical
industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer
products by monitoring production environments, raw materials and end products
for bacterial contamination. Industrial customers are comprised of quality
control and quality assurance functions within food, beverage, personal care,
pharmaceutical and biotech companies.



Clinical
Diagnostics



Our clinical diagnostics products
include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized
immunodiagnostics reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration
verification fluids. In particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse
testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing;
thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology;
hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; monitoring and toxicology;
first trimester screening, tumor markers testing and biomarkers testing for
sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. We also
private label many of our immunoassay reagents and controls for major in-vitro
diagnostics companies through OEM arrangements. In many instances, we will work
with customers or partners to develop new products and applications for their
instrument platforms.



We have developed one of the
broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays, including those for newer drugs
such as Oxycodone, Heroin Metabolite and Buprenorphine. We also offer a line of
immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical
chemistry analyzers.



Our clinical chemistry systems
include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine
chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific
proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. Our diagnostic test
range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. We also
provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens
before and after analysis.



In other analytical laboratory
fields, our reagents and automated photometric analyzers are used for
colorimetric and enzymatic analysis and quality control in food and beverage,
wine and pharmaceutical production. In addition to our own sales channels, our
laboratory automation systems are distributed by some of the leading diagnostic
manufacturers, such as Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics (OCD).



In October 2009, the company
completed the acquisition of B.R.A.H.M.S. AG, a leading provider of specialty
diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and
pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening.
BRAHMS increased the breadth of the company’s diagnostics portfolio and provided
a significant reagent manufacturing center in Europe.



Anatomical Pathology
(AP)



We provide a broad portfolio of
products for use primarily in histology, cytology and hematology applications.
These products include consumables for specimen collection, tissue processing,
embedding and staining, such as reagents, stains, slides, cover glass,
microarray substrates, detection kits and antibodies. We also provide a range of
AP instruments including an autostaining immunohistochemistry slide staining
system; a robot stainer used in slide staining of histology and cytological
specimens; along with other equipment such as tissue processors for preparation
of tissue samples; microtomes and cryostats for sectioning of processed tissues;
embedding centers, slide stainers to highlight abnormal cells for microscopic
examination and diagnosis; coverslippers, which place glass slipcovers on slides
at a high capacity of approximately 450 slides per hour; and cassette and slide
labelers for identifying specimens. Our cytocentrifuges use low-speed
centrifugation technology to





Financial Statement Index11


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

concentrate
and deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell
capture and better preservation of cell morphology. Our tissue processors
provide a fully automatic solution for tissue processing and reagent
storage/handling. For efficient handling and accurate identification of
histology and cytology specimens, we offer a comprehensive line of cassette and
slide labelers, including a laser microwriter developed specifically for
anatomical pathology which prints 1D and 2D barcodes, text, logos and graphics
in 26 different fonts at a speed of 1 to 2 seconds per slide and is designed to
handle high-volume workloads in clinical or research laboratories. Other
histology products include a line of microtomes for paraffin or resin
sectioning, cryostats for frozen sections and slide stainers for cell morphology
highlights.



Thermo Fisher manufactures
high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as
microscope slides, plates, cover glass and microarray substrates serving the
medical, diagnostics and scientific communities. We also offer specialized
hydrophobic, adhesive and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating
techniques.



Biosciences



Our broad range of Biosciences
products and services includes fine and high-purity chemistry products; nucleic
acid synthesis reagents; polymerase chain reaction and quantitative polymerase
chain reaction reagents and related products; molecular biology reagents and
consumables; RNA interference (RNAi) reagents; high-quality antibodies;
proprietary protein analysis reagents and kits; high content screening (HCS) and
analysis (HCA) products; cell-culture products and sterile liquid-handling
systems. These products are used across the general chemistry and life sciences
arenas primarily for scientific research and drug discovery, as well as
biopharmaceutical research and production.



Global
Chemicals



Our Global Chemicals products
provide solutions for chemistry-based applications to scientists involved in
analysis, research and development, and manufacturing — primarily in the
pharmaceutical, life sciences and high technology markets. We offer reliable,
industry leading products and services through internal expertise and through
partnerships with leading providers of chemical technology. We deliver these
products and solutions through our extensive global distribution network. Our
broad portfolio includes organic chemicals used in basic research applications
to synthesize new materials. We also provide a comprehensive line of essential
laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify
and manufacture products. Our broad range of bioreagents is used in many
different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis. In
addition, our offering of novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates
and screening libraries are used by medicinal and organic chemists to accelerate
drug discovery. We also provide bulk volumes of many of our products when
customers scale up from research to development.



Life Science
Research



Our Life Science Research products
provide innovative technologies, services and support to our global research and
business partners. Focusing on genomics, proteomics and cell biology
applications, these products are used in academic, government, diagnostic,
biotechnology and pharmaceutical laboratories globally to understand biological
processes and the basis of human diseases and to shorten the drug discovery and
development process.





Financial Statement Index12


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Our Genomics products are focused on
gene silencing, gene expression and nucleic acid amplification and detection.
Our gene modulation product lines include synthetic small interfering RNA
(siRNA) and viral vectors containing short hairpin RNA (shRNA) for gene
silencing and complementary DNA (cDNA) vectors for gene expression. Together
these technologies allow researchers to control the expression of specific genes
in order to understand their function. Scientists use our PCR and QPCR reagents
along with PCR reaction plates and sealingproducts to amplify and
measure nucleic acids with high precision and sensitivity, enabling them to gain
a better understanding of the control mechanisms inside a cell. We supply a
number of stock and custom products through business-to-business relationships
including high purity RNA and DNA synthesis reagents, high purity nucleotides,
novel fluorescent dyes, dye-labeled compounds, customized PCR plastics and other
molecular biology reagents. Our synthesis products are used by oligo nucleotides
manufacturers in both research and the rapidly emerging nucleic acid therapeutic
markets. Our Genomics offering also has a wide range of highly advanced services
including genome-wide RNAi screening, RNAi in vivo technology development,
high-content screening and cell line development, micro RNA profiling and custom
chemical synthesis.



Our Proteomics products enable the
effective and efficient study of the biology of proteins and offer cell-based
assays and services for high-content pathway analysis. Scientists use our
reagents and kits for protein purification, protein detection and quantitation,
protein sample preparation, protein labeling, protein interaction, and related
studies, providing new capabilities and sensitive and accurate results more
efficiently. Our extensive offering includes more than 30,000 high-quality
antibodies, peptides and proteins, including many antibodies labeled with novel
fluorescent dyes. Complementing the company’s technology leadership in mass
spectroscopy (MS), some of our products support a complete protein analysis
workflow in MS analysis, including innovative stable isotope-based reagents. Our
specialized reagent kits and assays are powerful tools for fluorescence
cell-based screening and analysis of specific molecular targets and biological
parameters. Together, they comprise a wide range of high content analysis (HCA)
and high content screening (HCS) assays.



Our Cellular Imaging and Analysis
technologies provide complete systems for high-content imaging of cells, tissues
and whole organisms. This total platform includes automated imaging instruments,
image analysis software, data management and bioinformatics software, coupled
with reagents, laboratory automation and services to provide the life science
researcher with a quantitative, automated approach to understanding the biology
of cells, including stem cells, and cell systems. Applications include all
aspects of the drug discovery process as well as academic and systems biology
research.



BioProcess
Production



Our BioProcess Production offerings
include cell-culture and bioprocessing products used in the production of animal
and human viral vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, protein-based therapeutics and
wound healing. These products and technologies continue to lead the industry in
innovation and quality, encompassing preeminent cell-culture products (sera,
classical media, serum-free and protein-free media, and process liquids) and
bioprocessing systems, including flexible, single-use BioProcess Container (BPC)
systems, which are sterile, disposable bags specifically designed for
transporting, mixing, dispensing, and storing sterile liquids and powders. In
particular, the innovative Single-Use Bioreactor (S.U.B.) product line offers a
single-use alternative to conventional stirred tank bioreactors currently used
in animal cell culture. The S.U.B. emulates the scalability and operating
parameters of the conventional stirred tank bioreactors yet is disposable,
offering numerous process and regulatory advantages. The rapid acceptance of
this technology is changing the landscape of the bioprocessing industry. These
products are used in industrial and academic research markets for biotherapeutic
discovery, cellular interaction studies, toxicity testing, antiviral and
anticancer studies, as well as in biopharmaceutical manufacturing processes,
where they have been specifically qualified for use in bioscience applications
in the biopharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries.







Financial Statement Index13


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Laboratory
Products and Services Segment



Through our Laboratory Products and
Services segment, we offer a combination of products and services that allows
our customers to engage in their core business functions of research,
development, manufacturing, clinical diagnosis and drug discovery more
accurately, rapidly and cost effectively. We serve the pharmaceutical,



In the Research Market Channel, the
Fisher Scientific catalog has been published for over 100 years and is an
internationally recognized scientific supply resource. In the Research,
Healthcare and Safety Market Channels, we publish more than 3 million
copies of our various catalogs each year in eight different languages. Our
e-commerce product references are showcased by our website,www.fishersci.com,
which is a leading e-commerce site supporting the scientific research community.
The website contains full product content for more than 340,000 products. We
maintain an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through
which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. With
specialized product vaults and temperature controlled storage capacity, we are
able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our
customers. Our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of
delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely
integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. Throughout the product
delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to
comprehensive electronic systems allowing for automated catalog search, product
order and invoicing and payment capabilities.



We deliver our products through
third-party carriers and our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles. Third-party
carriers include United Parcel Service (UPS), Federal Express, DHL and other
carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier
services and the U.S. Postal Service.



Laboratory
Products



Laboratory
Equipment



Our Laboratory Equipment products
and integrated solutions are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug
discovery and development, and by biotechnology companies and universities for
life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance
the quality of life.



We provide a broad range of
equipment that is used for the preparation and preservation of chemical and
biological samples, primarily for pharmaceutical, academic, clinical and
government customers. Products include incubators that are used in biological
experiments to allow growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions of
temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity.



We are leaders in cold temperature
storage equipment, ranging from laboratory refrigerators and freezers to
ultralow temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks, which are used
primarily for storing samples in a cold environment to protect from degradation.
These systems may be customized to accommodate specific equipment, allowing
reactions (such as chromatography) to be run under low-temperature
conditions.





Financial Statement Index14


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

We also offer a wide range of
centrifuges, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic
materials. Our microcentrifuges are primarily used for the purification of
nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory, our general use benchtop
centrifuges are suitable for processing clinical samples such as blood and
urine, and our floor models are used for large volume blood processing or in
laboratories with high-throughput needs. Our super-speed and ultra-speed models
are used for applications such as protein purification.



Our biological safety cabinets
enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their
environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. Equipped with
filtered air ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source,
biological safety cabinets can be used for tissue culture, IVF, infectious
samples, forensic analysis or bioterrorism research.



We offer a wide variety of
microplate instruments for drug discovery, assay development, enzyme linked
immunosorbent assay and applied testing markets. Our portfolio includes
microplate detection instruments, multichannel reagent dispensing, magnetic
particle purification systems, microplate washer and incubation equipment.
Microplate detection instruments include UV, fluorescence, luminescence and
multimode reader technologies. These instruments are designed for the analysis
and optimization of assays, such as binding assays; absorption, distribution,
metabolism and excretion toxicity; molecular biology assays; enzyme kinetic
studies; ion-channel; and cell signaling assays. Multichannel reagent dispensing
is critical to the efficiency and reproducibility of assays and we offer a
flexible sample preparation system to meet the stringent requirements of reagent
dispensing in pharmaceutical and biotechnology laboratories. We provide
products for the purification of proteins, nucleic acids and cells in a
convenient, rapid and reproducible manner using a patented magnetic particle
method. The system consists of instruments, specially designed plastics and
software to provide a total purification solution for customer
applications.



We offer a variety of other
laboratory products such as water purification systems, chillers, shakers,
stirrers, hotplates, water baths, ovens, furnaces, vacuum concentrators and in a
range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical
chemistry, manufacturing and quality control applications where temperature
uniformity and control are critical.



We supply internet, phone and field
technical support and service for laboratory equipment including installation,
maintenance, repair and training on a worldwide basis via a network of internal
phone support technicians and field-based service technicians as well as
third-party service providers.



Laboratory
Consumables



We manufacture and sell plastics and
glass consumables and certain related equipment to entities conducting
scientific research, including drug discovery and drug development, quality and
process control, clinical and basic research and development.



We sell sample tubes, containers and
vessels, in a variety of plastics and glass and in a wide range of volumes for
all types of life science, analytical and clinical analysis. Included in this
offering are microwell plates ranging from a single well to 1,536 wells for
applications ranging from tissue culture to primary and secondary screening in
drug discovery. The geometry of the wells, the type of plastic resin, the
surface treatments or filtration membrane in the devices vary to serve a number
of applications for maximizing cell growth, sample concentration within the well
or reduce background fluorescence or non-specific binding.



Accurate measurement and dispensing
of samples and reagents is critical in a variety of industrial, academic,
government, and clinical laboratories. We have a wide variety of single and
multiple channel pipetting tools from manual to highly automated, covering a
wide volume range. The ergonomics of these devices are important to thecomfort
of researchers handling numerous samples and pipetting steps on a daily basis.
Due to sample cross-contamination concerns, the tips of the pipettes are
disposable and a separate tip is used for each sample.





Financial Statement Index15


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

We have tubes
specific to centrifugation in various sizes to fit the volume and centrifugal
speed requirements of the sample. In addition, we sell sample storage vials and
organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage, offering
specific products for low protein binding and low DNA binding.



We also provide tissue culture
filtration and growth vessels. Our products are used by researchers for growth
of tissue culture and can be scaled up to biomanufacturing of vaccines or
monoclonal antibodies using Cell Factory products. The sterility of samples and
growth media is critical to the viability of the cells.



We sell a broad range of
chromatography consumables for both liquid and gas chromatography. These
consumables represent a complete consumable workflow solution from sample
collection to sample preparation to sample handling to sample analysis. These
products include HPLC columns, GC columns, auto-sampler vials and general
chromatography accessories.



Laboratory
Workstations



We are a major supplier of
laboratory workstations and fume hoods for either new construction or laboratory
renovation. Our product offerings include steel, wood and plastic laminate
casework systems, adaptable furniture systems, chemical ventilation fume hoods
and chemical storage cabinets and various other laboratory fixtures and
accessories.



Customer
Channels







We go to market through our broad
sales force, global network of resellers and distributors, printed catalogs, and
state-of-the-art website. We maintain a global sales force of over 1,500
personnel, augmented by a large global network of resellers and distributors.
Our print catalogs range from hardcopy volumes that include detailed
descriptions of over 45,000 products to industry-specific catalogs targeted to
customers in such industries as wine-testing, food safety and controlled
environments. In addition to our print catalogs, we maintain an on-line catalog
via ourwww.fishersci.comwebsite that allows our customers to search our product portfolio and purchase
over 870,000 products on-line.





Financial Statement Index16


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Research Market
Channel



Our Research Market Channel
offerings include a wide range of products and services from a single source
designed to allow our customers to engage more accurately and efficiently in
laboratory research and development throughout the world. Our customers
represent all industries requiring any level of laboratory research, including
but not limited to the medical research, pharmaceutical, biotech, food and
agriculture, government, academic and manufacturing industries.



Our products include all forms of
laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals
to consumable products. We offer a mix of products that are manufactured by
Thermo Fisher, that are manufactured by third parties for us on a private-label
basis, and that are manufactured by third parties under their brand but offered
for sale exclusively through us. We also offer a broad range of third-party
products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive
basis.



Our print catalog consists of more
than 45,000 products. Beyond this catalog, we offer our customers access to an
additional 829,000 products. Our e-commerce website,www.fishersci.com,
has been an industry-leading online ordering and reference tool since its
inception in the 1990s.



In addition to our broad product
offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through
our Managed Services team. Services provided to customers include dedicated
logistics personnel who manage inventory and provide desktop delivery,
coordinate instrument calibration and service, facilitate glass washing, provide
on-site customer service and deliver other services that allow our customers to
focus on their core research activities.



Healthcare Market
Channel



Our Healthcare Market Channel
offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents,
equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical
laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians’ offices and other clinical
testing facilities. These products are manufactured by Thermo Fisher and third
parties.



Healthcare Market products and
solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological
samples. Major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic
and cardiac risk management solutions, along with blood collection devices,
consumable vials and transportation devices, as well as an extensive portfolio
of rapid diagnostic testing devices for drugs-of-abuse testing and diagnosis and
monitoring of cancer, endocrine function and cardiovascular, gastrointestinal,
nervous system, respiratory and sexually transmitted diseases. The Healthcare
Market core product offering also includes high-end diagnostic instruments and
equipment together with the reagents used in those instruments and equipment to
perform diagnostic tests. Sales in the healthcare market are fueled by the
administration and evaluation of diagnostic tests. We believe that the aging
population, as well as the increased demand for the development of new specialty
diagnostic tests, will result in increased market growth.



In addition to our broad product
offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through
our Managed Services team. Services provided to customers include dedicated
logistics personnel that manage inventory, provide on-site customer service, and
deliver other services that allow our customers to focus on their core
responsibilities.







Financial Statement Index17


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Safety Market
ChannelThrough our Safety Market Channel we
supply safety-related products to various industries including laboratory
research, industrial manufacturing, healthcare, universities, food/agriculture,
environmental and petrochemical as well as government and municipal agencies,
fire departments and military units. Products offered to these markets include:cleanroom and controlled-environment supplies; personal protective
equipment such as respirators, clothing, gloves, hardhats, hearing protection
and eyewear; fall protection harnesses and restraints; self-contained breathing
apparatus; specialized firefighting and military equipment and supplies;
environmental monitoring and sampling equipment; and first responder supplies
and equipment such as decontamination tents, bio-isolation systems, chemical
protective suits and emergency response trailers. We offer products mainly
manufactured by third parties as well as those manufactured by Thermo
Fisher.



We also provide access to a broad
offering of training, equipment servicing and on-site inventory management
support through our dedicated safety sales professionals, equipment service
employees and on-site customer support teams. Our goal is to provide a total
solution of products, training and support to our customers.



BioPharma
Services



Our BioPharma Services offerings
include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged
in clinical trials, including specialized packaging, over-encapsulation,
multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase I through
phase IV clinical trials, analytical testing, biological-specimen
management, as well as specialty pharmaceutical logistics and clinical
supply-chain management. Thermo Fisher’s biorepository business provides
temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology,
university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. Our
biorepository services business stores millions of pharmacological and
biospecimen samples at commercial sites. Additional services include inventory
management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and
transportation capabilities resulting in a complete cold chain sample management
solution.



Services are offered throughout the
world, with operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Switzerland, India,
Latin America, China, Ireland, Singapore, Japan and Russia.



Sales
and Marketing



We market and sell our products and
services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals,
electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs.



We have approximately 9,800 sales
and service personnel including over 1,000 highly trained technical specialists
who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. We also
provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management
services to reduce procurement costs.



New
Products and Research and Development



Our business includes the
development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new
business segments. We are not currently committed to any new products that
require the investment of a material amount of our funds, nor do we have any
definitive plans to enter new businesses that would require such an
investment.



During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we spent
$246.1 million, $249.1 million and $238.7 million, respectively, on research and
development.



Raw
Materials



Our management team believes that we
have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant
products from various sources. We do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining
the raw materials essential to ourbusiness.
Raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market
conditions. We employ many strategies, including the use of alternative
materials and the use of derivative instruments, to mitigate the effect of these
fluctuations on our results.





Financial Statement Index18


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Patents,
Licenses and Trademarks



Patents are important in both
segments of our business. No particular patent, or related group of patents, is
so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations
as a whole. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and
developments made by our personnel and incorporated into our products or
otherwise falling within our fields of interest. Patent rights resulting from
work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the
company and may be limited by agreements or contracts.



We protect some of our technology as
trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks
used in connection with products. We also enter into license agreements with
others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how.



Seasonal
Influences



Revenues in the fourth calendar
quarter are historically stronger than in the other quarters due to capital
spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. Sales
of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to
year based on the severity and duration of flu season.



Working
Capital Requirements



There are no special inventory
requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material
adverse effect on our working capital.



Dependency
on a Single Customer



There is no single customer the loss
of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. No customer
accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in any of the past three
years.



Backlog



Our backlog of firm orders at
year-end 2009 and 2008 was as follows:



(In
      millions)20092008Analytical
      Technologies$857.0$777.3Laboratory
      Products and Services480.8438.9$1,337.8$1,216.2



We believe that virtually all of our
backlog at the end of 2009 will be filled during 2010.





Financial Statement Index19


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Government
Contracts



Although the company transacts
business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such
magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the
election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the
company’s financial results.



Competition



The company encounters aggressive
and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. Because of the
diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of
competitors and competition. Our competitors include a broad range of
manufacturers and third-party distributors. In general, competitive climates in
the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer
demands that require continuing research and development. Our success in these
markets primarily depends on the following factors:



·technical
      performance and advances in technology that result in new products and
      improved price/performance ratios;



·product
      differentiation, availability and
reliability;



·our
      broad product offering;



·our
      reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and
      services;



·customer
      service and support;



·active
      research and application-development programs;
  and



·relative
      prices of our products and
services.



Environmental
Matters



We are subject to various laws and
governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety
and health in the United States and other countries. U.S. federal
environmental legislation that affects us includes the Toxic Substances Control
Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean
Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental
Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). We are also subject to
regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
concerning employee safety and health matters. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have the authority to
promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations.



In addition to these federal
activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the
aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters
under state laws. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental
and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar
to federal requirements.



A number of our operations involve the
handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be
classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable
laws. Consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our
operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar
businesses.



Our expenses for environmental
requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical
remediation matters. Based on current information, we believe that these
compliance costs are not material. Forhistorical
remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of
permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment
systems and other remedial measures.





Financial Statement Index20


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Our Fair Lawn
and Somerville, New Jersey, facilities are the subject of administrative consent
orders issued by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection in 1984.
Our Rockford, Illinois, facility is subject to a Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA) corrective action program administered by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. We are required to maintain
groundwater-remediation activities at these sites. As the owner of the Fair Lawn
facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation
within an area called the Fair Lawn Wellfields Superfund Site.



We record accruals for environmental
liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and
regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the
amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. We calculate estimates
based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental
specialists and management’s knowledge and experience with these environmental
matters. We include in these estimates potential costs for investigation,
remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. Accrued liabilities
for environmental matters totaled $23 million at December 31, 2009. The
liability for environmental matters associated with Fisher was recorded at the
date of merger at its fair value and as such was discounted to its net present
value.



These environmental liabilities do not
include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. We believe that our
accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to
incur. As a result, we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to
environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. However, we may be subject to
additional remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in
existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement
policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of
our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have
a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.



Regulatory
Affairs



Our operations, and some of the
products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and
regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution
of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and
security standards of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Food and Drug
Administration, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state
and foreign agencies. As Thermo Fisher’s businesses also include export and
import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the
U.S. Departments of Commerce, State and Treasury. In addition, our
logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the
Department of Transportation, the Federal Aviation Administration and similar
foreign agencies. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects
with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial
fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution
services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. To date,
none has had a material impact on our operations.



We are subject to laws and
regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws
and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by
leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. We have
agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a
result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to
companies doing business with the government. We are also subject to
investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government
contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension
of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or
debarment.





Financial Statement Index21


THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Number
of Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had
approximately 35,400 employees.



Financial
Information About Geographic Areas



Financial information about
geographic areas is summarized in Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements, which begin on page F-1 of this report.



Available
Information



The company files annual, quarterly
and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Exchange Act. The public may read and
copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room
at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
Also, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file
electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file
with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge on or through
our own website at www.thermofisher.com our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable,
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the
Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, paper copies of these
documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its
Investor Relations Department at our principal executive office located at 81
Wyman Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451.



Executive
Officers of the Registrant



NameAgePresent
      Title (Fiscal Year First Became Executive Officer)Marc
      N. Casper41President
      and Chief Executive Officer (2001)Gregory
      J. Herrema44Senior
      Vice President (2008)Seth
      H. Hoogasian55Senior
      Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (2001)Alan
      J. Malus50Senior
      Vice President (2006)Edward
      A. Pesicka42Senior
      Vice President (2008)Stephen
      G. Sheehan54Senior
      Vice President, Human Resources (2003)Yuh-Geng
      Tsay61Senior
      Vice President (2008)Peter
      M. Wilver50Senior
      Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2003)Peter
      E. Hornstra50Vice
      President and Chief Accounting Officer
(2001)



Mr. Casper was appointed President and
Chief Executive Officer in October 2009. He was Chief Operating Officer from May
2008 to October 2009 and Executive Vice President from November 2006 to October
2009. He was Senior Vice President from December 2003 to November 2006. He was
President, Life and Laboratory Sciences from December 2001 to March
2005.



Mr. Herrema was appointed Senior Vice
President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President of Analytical Instruments in
May 2008. He was President, Scientific Instruments from May 2006 to October
2009. He was President, Environmental Instruments from January 2002 to May
2006.



Mr. Hoogasian was appointed Senior Vice
President in November 2006, Secretary in 2001 and General Counsel in 1992. He
was Vice President from 1996 to November 2006.





Financial Statement Index22
THERMO
FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.Item 1.Business
(continued)

Mr. Malus was appointed
President of Laboratory Products in July 2008 and Senior Vice President of
Thermo Fisher Scientific in November 2006. Prior to Thermo’s merger with Fisher,
Mr. Malus was group president of distribution and services for Fisher, where he
focused on growing the company’s customer channel businesses serving research,
healthcare, education and safety markets. Mr. Malus joined Fisher in 1998 and
served in a variety of management roles.



Mr. Pesicka was appointed
Senior Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President, Customer
Channels in July 2008. He was President, Research Market from November 2006 to
July 2008. Prior to Thermo’s merger with Fisher, Mr. Pesicka was Vice President
and General Manager of Fisher’s U.S. research business from January 2004 to
November 2006.



Mr. Sheehan was appointed Senior Vice
President, Human Resources in November 2006. He was Vice President, Human
Resources from August 2001 to November 2006.



Dr. Tsay was appointed Senior
Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President, Specialty Diagnostics
in May 2008. He was President, Diagnostics from November 2006 to May 2008. Prior
to Thermo’s merger with Fisher, Dr. Tsay was Fisher’s Group President of
Immunodiagnostics and he previously led the immunodiagnostics business within
Apogent Technologies, which was acquired by Fisher in 2004.



Mr. Wilver was appointed Senior Vice
President in November 2006 and Chief Financial Officer in October 2004. He was
Vice President from October 2004 to November 2006.



Mr. Hornstra was appointed Vice
President in February 2007 and Chief Accounting Officer in January 2001. He was
Corporate Controller from January 1996 to February 2007.



