Item 1.Business



General Development of Business



Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (also referred to in this document as “Thermo Fisher,” “we,” the “company,” or the “registrant”) is the world leader in serving science. We enable our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner and safer by providing analytical instruments, equipment, reagents and consumables, software and services for research, manufacturing, analysis, discovery and diagnostics.



In November 2006, Thermo Electron Corporation (also referred to in this document as “Thermo,” which is the predecessor to Thermo Fisher) merged with Fisher Scientific International Inc. (also referred to in this document as “Fisher”) to create Thermo Fisher. Thermo Fisher has approximately 37,200 employees and serves more than 350,000 customers within pharmaceutical and biotech companies, hospitals and clinical diagnostic labs, universities, research institutions and government agencies, as well as environmental, industrial quality and process control settings.



We serve our customers through two principal brands, Thermo Scientific and Fisher Scientific:



·Thermo Scientific is ourtechnologybrand, offering customers a complete range of high-end analytical instruments as well as laboratory equipment, software, services, consumables and reagents to enable integrated laboratory workflow solutions. Our portfolio of products includes innovative technologies for mass spectrometry, elemental analysis, molecular spectroscopy, sample preparation, informatics, fine- and high-purity chemistry production, cell culture, protein analysis, RNA-interference techniques, immunodiagnostic testing, microbiology, anatomical pathology, as well as environmental monitoring and process control.



·Our Fisher Scientific brand offerschoiceandconvenience, providing a complete portfolio of laboratory equipment, chemicals, supplies and services used in scientific research, healthcare, safety and education markets. These products are offered through an extensive network of direct sales professionals, industry-specific catalogs, e-commerce capabilities and supply-chain management services. We also offer a range of biopharma services for clinical trials management, biospecimen storage and analytical testing.



In addition to the two principal brands, we offer a number of specialty brands that cover a range of consumable products.



We are continuously advancing the capabilities of our technologies, software and services, and leveraging our 10,500 sales and service personnel around the world to address our customers’ emerging needs. Our goal is to make our customers more productive, and to allow them to solve their analytical challenges, from complex research and discovery to routine testing.



Thermo Fisher is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1956. The company completed its initial public offering in 1967 and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1980.



Forward-looking Statements



Forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), are made throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. While the company may elect to update forward-looking statements in the future, it specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if the company’s estimates change, and readers should not rely on those forward-looking statements as 
representing the company’s views as of any date subsequent to the date of the filing of this report.



A number of important factors could cause the results of the company to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including those detailed under the heading, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.



Financial Statement Index3


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)

Business Segments and Products



We report our business in two segments: Analytical Technologies and Laboratory Products and Services. For financial information about segments, including domestic and international operations and export sales, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which begin on page F-1 of this report.



Analytical Technologies Segment



Through our Analytical Technologies segment, we serve the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets, as well as the clinical laboratory and healthcare industries. This segment has three primary growth platforms – Analytical Instruments, Specialty Diagnostics and Biosciences – andprovides a broad range of instruments, software and services, bioscience reagents and diagnostic assays to address various scientific, healthcare, environmental, and process optimization challenges in laboratories, manufacturing and the field.



●Analytical Instruments include scientific instruments used in the laboratory to analyze prepared samples, software interpretation tools and laboratory

information management systems, environmental instruments, integrated systems, and services used in industrial environments, in the lab, and in the

field for continuous environmental monitoring, safety and security applications; and process instruments, integrated systems, measurement solutions, and

services used in process environments and in the field to enable real-time process control and optimization and materials analysis.



●Specialty Diagnostics products and services are used by healthcare and other laboratories to prepare and analyze patient samples to detect and diagnose

diseases. Microbiology products include high-quality reagents and diagnostic kits used in the diagnosis of infectious disease or for testing for bacterial

contamination to assure the safety and quality of consumer products such as food and pharmaceuticals.



●Biosciences products include leading reagents and consumables used in life science research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical production.





Analytical Instruments



Scientific Instruments





, including mass spectrometry (MS), chromatography and optical spectroscopy,

Mass spectrometry is a technique for analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming gas phase charged ions that are then analyzed according to mass-to-charge rati
os. In addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound generates a fragmentation pattern that provides structurally identifiable information. Chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on physical and chemical characteristics specific to each component. Optical spectroscopy is a technique for analyzing individual chemical components of substances based on the absorption or emission of electromagnetic radiation of a specific wavelength of light, for example, visible (light), ultraviolet or infra-red. We complement our product technologies with

,

, database analytical tools, automation systems, and a broad portfolio of reagents and consumables from the rest of the company to deliver integrated work flow solutions that improve the quality and productivity of r
esearch





Financial Statement Index4


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Our instruments, software, and workflow solutions are used in a variety of regulated and unregulated industries in life sciences applications such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, clinical and food safety, in chemical and materials analysis applications such as environmental, petrochemicals, chemicals, semiconductor, steel and basic materials, and geology, as well as in academic and government research.To support our global installations, we provide implementation, validation, training, maintenance and support from our large global services network.



Life Science Mass Spectrometry (LSMS).The company’s Life Sciences Mass Spectrometry product line features high performance instrumentation for a wide spectrum of markets and applications. The triple quadrupole, ion trap and hybrid mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) product lines offer tiered portfolios for both qualitative and quantitative analysis across a broad range of markets including pharmaceutical, academic research, clinical research, food safety, environmental and toxicology markets. Applications range in complexity from routine compound identification in regulated fields such as food safety and environmental screening, to sophisticated analysis of low-abundance components in complex biological matrices.



Our triple quadrupole portfolio provides high performance quantitative analysis of chemicals in biological fluids, environmental samples and food matrices. Applications for the pharmaceutical industry include the targeted quantitation of drug candidates in discovery absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) studies, and in support of development phase clinical trials where sensitivity, specificity, precision and accuracy are requirements for submission of pharmacokinetic data for regulatory approval. The triple quadrupole portfolio is also used for targeted analysis of pesticides and food contaminants to support regulatory requirements.



Our ion trap portfolio includes instruments and software for in depth structural analysis of large bio-molecules, such as proteins, to structural characterization of small molecules, such as drugs and drug metabolites.



Hybrid mass spectrometers combine linear ion trap technology, Fourier Transform Ion Cyclotron Resonance Mass spectrometry (FTICR) and Orbitrap technology, providing high resolution and accurate mass capabilities in a single mass spectrometry system. The combination of two powerful capabilities permits sensitive and accurate identification of compounds in complex matrices. Our Hybrid mass spectrometers are suited for analysis of complex biological problems such as cellular pathway analysis, investigation of protein sequence modifications, biomarker discovery for potential disease markers, evaluation of complex metabolomic systems, and metabolite identification because of their enhanced selectivity capabilities from high resolution and accurate mass.



Inorganic Mass Spectrometry (IOMS).Inorganic MS products are comprised of four product segments: Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometry (IRMS), Multi-Collector Mass Spectrometry (MC-IRMS), Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) and High Resolution Trace Mass Spectrometry (HR Trace-MS). IOMS products are primarily used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic matter in a range of applications including environmental analysis, materials science, climate research, earth science as well as nuclear safeguard and fuel control. All of our IOMS products are based on sophisticated magnetic sector mass spectrometers, which are customized to meet the needs of a broad range of applications.



In addition, we supply a range of sample preparation and separation product-lines for mass spectrometry including auto-samplers, liquid and gas chromatography instruments and columns, and multi-plexing systems.





Financial Statement Index5


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Liquid Chromatography.Liquid Chromatography (LC) is a separation technique that analyzes complex sample matrices in liquids. Our HPLC (High Pressure Liquid Chromatography) systems and UHPLC (Ultra High Pressure Liquid Chromatography) systems offer high throughput and sensitivity in the analysis of liquid samples. They are sold either in stand-alone configurations or as systems-integrated with our mass spectrometers (LC-MS and LC-MS/MS). Our nanoHPLC systems are typically used to separate components of very small biological samples for further analysis with ion trap or hybrid mass spectrometers. The company also has a fast scanning single quadrupole LC-MS system used primarily in pharmaceutical laboratories, providing chromatograph
ers the ability to complete routine LC analysis with real-time mass confirmation. These products utilize our comprehensive line of HPLC columns.



Gas Chromatography.Gas chromatography (GC) is a separation technique that analyzes complex sample matrices in gases. GC comprises both separation and detection technology. Separation technology is common to all gas chromatography analyzers, and is paired with either a conventional detector (GC) or with different types of mass spectrometers (GC-MS). Thermo Scientific’s gas chromatographs (GCs) include a full range of detectors, injectors, and valve systems for chemical and petrochemical analysis, and its GCxGC product is used for analysis of target compounds in complex matrices. Our GC-MS offering includes a triple stage quadrupole GC-MS, for routine analysis of pesticide residues in food; a single stage quadrupole MS for qua
ntitative product screening of environmental and toxicology samples; and an ion trap MS for analysis of target components in complex matrices. We also offer a wide range of auto samplers that fully automate GC or GC-MS analysis.



Molecular Spectroscopy. Thermo Fisher’s molecular spectroscopy products are divided into four primary techniques: Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR), Raman, Near-infrared (NIR) and ultraviolet/visible (UV/Vis) spectroscopy. All four techniques provide information regarding the structure of molecules and hence provide the means for the identification, verification and quantification of primarily organic materials. The instrumentation comprises interferometric and dispersive spectrometers combined with software that extracts both qualitative and quantitative information from the raw data. The major applications are found in pharmaceutical, biotechnology, polymer, chemical and forensic sciences. The instrumentation is used in re
search, analytical services and quality control laboratories. Near-infrared spectroscopy is used in both laboratory QC and process control applications, making it a technique well-suited for process analytical technology (PAT).



Bulk Elemental Analysis.Thermo Fisher provides a full range of instrumentation for elemental analysis of bulk materials such as metals, cement, minerals and petrochemicals using X-ray fluorescence (XRF), X-Ray diffraction (XRD) and arc spark optical emission (OES) techniques. Our OES product line is ideal for use in process/quality control for the direct, elemental analysis of solid metals.



Our benchtop and standalone XRF systems for analysis of conductive or non-conductive solids and liquids are used in many industrial and research laboratories, for monitoring of specific elements in oils, polymers, cement or quarry materials to the full analysis of glasses, metals, ores, refractories and geological materials. Our XRD equipment allows analysis of phases or compounds in crystalline materials. Both XRF and XRD techniques are integrated into one instrument to provide total analysis capabilities to the cement, metals and mining industries.



Trace Elemental Analysis.Thermo Fisher offers a line of elemental analysis instrumentation for the analysis of trace concentrations of elements in liquid and solid samples. Our atomic absorption (AA) instruments and inductively coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometers are used for trace elemental analysis of liquid samples in environmental, petrochemical, food safety, metallurgical, geochemical and clinical/toxicology applications. These products are widely used in growth markets such as China, India and Latin America and support compliance with increasingly stringent international environmental and consumer safety regulations.





Financial Statement Index6


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Surface Analysis. The principle technique of the surface analysis product range is X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS). XPS provides detailed quantitative information about the chemical composition of solid surfaces and interfaces. The product line features fully integrated instruments, designed for rapid throughput of samples, as well as user configured systems and component options. The extreme surface sensitivity of XPS makes it directly applicable to the development of new materials whose surfaces are chemically engineered on the nanometer scale. The application field for XPS is wide and varied. XPS is commonly used in the semi-conductor, metals, coatings and polymer industries as a product development and failure analysis t
ool.



Microanalysis.Thermo Fisher provides a range of energy-dispersive and wavelength-dispersive x-ray detectors for electron microscope users that transform the electron microscope from an imaging tool into an analytical instrument. These detectors make it possible to rapidly and accurately analyze the elemental distribution of a sample at resolutions down to the nanometer scale.



Laboratory Automation Solutions.Thermo Fisher is a supplier of automation systems that provide solutions for the drug discovery and cell research market. Our key technologies include automated storage and incubation, integration platforms, robotics and software. Precise and reliable motion control is achieved through state-of-the-art robotics that improve throughput and walk-away time.



Informatics.Thermo Fisher develops and provides laboratory information management systems solutions that provide application-specific, purpose-built functionality in software targeted for certain industries. These industries include pharmaceutical, petrochemical, chemical, food and beverage, metals and mining, environmental and water/wastewater, as well as government and academia. Thermo Fisher is a leader in developing commercial-off-the-shelf solutions designed for specific industry applications.



Environmental Instruments



Our environmental analysis instrumentation offers innovative technologies that are used for complying with government regulations and industry safety standards, or to analyze, measure or respond to a hazardous material situation. Our instruments include portable and fixed instrumentation used to help our customers protect people and the environment, with particular focus on environmental compliance, product quality, worker safety and security. Key end markets include coal, fossil fuel and nuclear-powered electric generation facilities, industrial markets such as pulp and paper and petrochemical, water and wastewater municipalities, federal, state and local agencies, general commercial and academic laboratories, and transportation security for sites such as ports and airports. Our instrum
entation is used in three primary applications: air quality monitoring and gas detection, water quality testing and monitoring and radiation measurement and protection.



Air Quality Monitoring and Gas Detection.We are a leader in air quality instruments for ambient air and stack gas emissions monitoring. Our primary customers and markets include environmental regulatory agencies responsible for providing gaseous and particulate pollutant air quality data and combustion based industrial operations such as power generation complying with governmentally mandated emissions standards. Additionally, we manufacture a broad range of portable and stationary particulate and gas detection monitoring instruments used by industrial hygienists, first responders and homeland security personnel for worker exposure protection.



Our gas detection instruments utilize a broad range of optoelectronic technologies to detect criteria pollutants such as nitrogen oxide at the parts-per-trillion level. We offer a comprehensive range of continuous particulate monitors for use in ambient air monitoring networks using technologies such as tapered element oscillation microbalances, beta attenuation and light scattering. We complement our market leading instrumentation with customized Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems (CEMS), offering both hardware and complete solutions along with integration, installation, support, commissioning, certification and training services.





Financial Statement Index7


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Water Quality Testing and Monitoring.Our water quality products include high-quality meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement of pH, ions, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and other key water parameters. Our meters, monitors, electrodes and solutions are sold across a broad range of industries. Based upon electrochemical and optical sensing technologies, these products are used for laboratory, field and process applications wherever the quality of water and water-based products is critical. Primary applications include quality control and assurance, environmental testing and regulatory compliance in markets such as water and wastewater, food and beverage, chemical, pharmaceutical, education and power generatio
n.



Radiation Measurement and Protection.Our radiation measurement, protection and security instruments are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms of radiation and trace explosives in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical and security applications. In the nuclear power market, our products are used by employees to monitor exposure, detect personal and asset contamination as well as monitor the interior and exterior environment. Our industrial applications include metal recycling, x-ray, and neutron generation, while our security applications are focused on scanning suspect cargo, vehicles and people and identifying the source radiation across a wide array of applications globally.



Process Instruments



Our Process Instruments products include instrument solutions and services that provide our customers with real-time data that help them improve product quality, increase process efficiency, increase product yield, reduce production downtime, reduce raw material waste and enhance security. Our products are typically used in mission-critical manufacturing applications that require high levels of accuracy, reliability and robustness. We serve a wide variety of global industries including oil and gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, food and beverage consumer products, power generation, metal, cement, minerals and mining, and semiconductor. Our major areas of expertise include online elemental analysis, handheld elemental and optical analysis, flat sheet thickness measurement, in-motion weig
hing and monitoring, rheological and thermal analysis, contaminant detection in packaged materials and flow, level and density measurement. Our Process Instruments include seven principal product lines: materials and minerals, portable elemental analysis, portable optical analysis, process systems, product inspection, material characterization and compliance testing.





Materials and Minerals.



Portable Elemental Analysis.Our line of portable XRF elemental analyzers are state-of-the-art handheld instruments offering real time high-performance analysis. The product platform is designed for the rapid on-site testing of metals for numerous industrial applications, including mining, coatings, precious metals and powder samples. Our product offering is tailored for specific market applications through a combination of instrument calibrations, x-ray sources and detectors to best match the desired speed and sensitivity of the analysis. The instruments are used for the analysis of metal alloys for positive material identification, scrap metal recycling, quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) and precious metals analysis, as w
ell as analysis of soils and sediments, environmental monitoring, lead screening in consumer products, lead in paint assessment, geochemical mapping and coatings/plating analysis.





Financial Statement Index8


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Portable Optical Analysis. Our line of portable optical analyzers are rugged, handheld spectrometers designed for rapid and precise chemical identification, authentication and screening directly at the point of need. These portable analyzers use vibrational spectroscopy— Raman, FTIR and NIR—for quick and accurate identification of substances. First responders, law enforcement and military personnel use our analyzers for chemical and explosives identification in critical safety and security situations. In aviation security, particularly at checkpoint screening, our analyzer enables rapid liquid threat screening. Other applications include quality control and assurance for pharmaceutical and consumer health raw materials,
 identification of counterfeit and substandard drugs, and industrial processing, such as plastics and carpet recycling and food and agriculture analysis.



Process Systems.Our process systems products help oil and gas, refining, steel and other customers optimize their processes. These instruments provide measurements that help improve efficiency, provide process and quality control, maintain regulatory compliance and increase worker safety. For instance, our gas flow computers support custody transfer applications in the production and transmission of natural gas; our nuclear interface level gauge is used in extremely harsh coker applications for petroleum refining; our moisture online analyzer helps our customers measure moisture in extreme applications like coke used in metal foundries, and our line of process mass spectrometers helps our customers detect minute constituents in pr
ocess gases. These systems provide real-time direct and remote data collection, analysis and local control functions using a variety of technologies, including radiation, radar, ultrasonic and vibration measurement principles, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Our online sulfur analyzer products, based on pulsed UV fluorescence technology, are used by refiners to bring clean fuels to consumers and in the petrochemical environment, including flare gas composition and catalyst protection.



Product Inspection.Our product inspection solutions serve the food and beverage, and pharmaceutical packaging industries. For the food and beverage and pharmaceutical markets, we provide solutions to help our customers attain safety and quality standards. Based on a variety of technologies, such as X-ray imaging and ultratrace chemical detection, our products are used to inspect packaged goods for physical contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts. For example, our line of metal detectors uses non-invasive, high-speed, magnetic flux technology to inspect packaged products; our line of checkweighers uses load cell technology to weigh packages on high-speed packaging lines; our line of inspection s
ystems uses X-ray imaging to enable our customers to inspect canned or bottled beverages at very high speeds.



Material Characterization.Our material characterization product lines include instruments that help our customers analyze materials for viscosity, surface tension and thermal properties. Our products accurately and flexibly measure a wide range of rheological properties in the lab and in process applications. These measurement platforms use open standards and have the ability to connect to a range of sensors and systems. Our extruders and blenders address R&D, small-scale production, quality control and pharmaceutical needs. Single screw and twin screw process extruders with measuring capabilities are used in lab and pilot scale tests for compounding and processing of polymers and ceramics. In the pharmaceutical markets, our p
roducts are used for quality control of the continuous mixing process.



Compliance Testing.Our compliance testing product lines provide simulation and verification equipment for electronic components and systems. Based on pulsed EMI (Electromagnetic Interference) technology, our products provide testing of electromagnetic compatibility, electrostatic discharge and transmission line pulse for original equipment manufacturers in the semiconductor market and independent testing labs.





Financial Statement Index9


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Services



We provide a complete portfolio of services and management solutions designed to help our customers improve productivity, reduce total cost of ownership of analytical instruments and ensure compliance. From instrument and equipment acquisition to disposition, we provide an extensive global service network to support our installed base of instruments.



From instrument support plans, preventive and corrective maintenance to instrument qualifications, our product services are designed to remove the hassle and worry from instrument maintenance allowing our customers to focus on their goals while increasing positive results in the lab. Furthermore, our parts, accessories, software and instrument upgrades provide our customers with the tools necessary to improve productivity and quality. In addition, our multi-vendor laboratory instrument services provide our customer complete laboratory support. Certified and experienced multi vendor service engineers provide instrument qualifications, preventive and corrective maintenance, validation, regulatory compliance and metrology services allowing our customer to expan
d our high quality cost effective instrument support throughout their operations.



We also provide our customers enterprise management solutions that streamline the services processes, increase operational efficiencies while reducing expenses and decreasing total cost of ownership. With integrated capabilities consisting of equipment maintenance management, physical inventory tracking and enterprise-wide maintenance reporting, coupled with direct and multi-vendor service capabilities, our asset management solutions are customizable to meet the business needs of our customers. Our asset management solutions business proactively manages all of our customers’ instruments and equipment so they have visibility to all of their assets and gain assurance that services are being delivered and performed on time.



Specialty Diagnostics



Our Specialty Diagnostics products and services are used by healthcare laboratories in hospitals, academic and research institutes, to prepare and analyze patient samples such as blood, urine, body fluids or tissue sections, to detect and diagnose diseases, such as cancer. We also provide diagnostic testing services for certain neurological, renal and endocrine disorders to physicians, hospital laboratories and reference laboratories.



Microbiology



Our Microbiology offerings include high-quality microbiology laboratory products, including dehydrated and prepared culture media, collection and transport systems, diagnostic and rapid direct specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the microbiology laboratory. Our products focus on aiding customers in the diagnosis of infectious disease, implementing effective infection control programs or in detecting microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing facilities.



These products are used by microbiologists worldwide to grow and identify bacteria and to detect viruses and parasites. Within the clinical field, these products are used to facilitate a rapid and accurate diagnosis of infectious disease, to determine appropriate antimicrobial therapy and to aid in the implementation of infection control programs. Key clinical customers include hospitals, public health and reference laboratories, clinics and physician offices. Within the food and pharmaceutical industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer products by monitoring production environments, raw materials and end products for bacterial contamination. Industrial customers are comprised of quality control and quality assurance functions within food, beverage, pe
rsonal care, pharmaceutical and biotech companies.





Financial Statement Index10


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Clinical Diagnostics



Our clinical diagnostics products include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized immunodiagnostics reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration verification fluids. In particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing; thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology; hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; monitoring and toxicology; first trimester screening, tumor markers testing and biomarkers testing for sepsis, acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. We also private label many of our immunoassay reagents and controls for major in-vitro diagnostics companies through OEM arrangements. In many instances, we will work with c
ustomers or partners to develop new products and applications for their instrument platforms.



We have developed one of the broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays, including those for newer drugs such as Oxycodone, Heroin Metabolite and Buprenorphine. We also offer a line of immunosuppressant drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of clinical chemistry analyzers.



Our clinical chemistry systems include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. Our diagnostic test range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. We also provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens before and after analysis.



In addition to our own sales channels, our laboratory automation systems are distributed by some of the leading diagnostic manufacturers, such as Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics. We are also a provider of specialty diagnostic tests based on patented biomarkers for sepsis, cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, as well as intensive care treatments and prenatal screening.



Anatomical Pathology



We provide a broad portfolio of products primarily for cancer diagnosis and medical research in histology, cytology and hematology applications. These products include a wide range of instruments, consumables and reagents for specimen collection and transport, tissue preparation, staining and immunohistochemistry assays and controls. Reagent and consumable products include sample collection and preservation products used to ensure specimen integrity, tissue cassettes and reagents necessary for same-day, high-quality specimen processing, blades and paraffin used to section tissue, and a wide range of leading stains. Also included are a full line of immunohistochemistry antibodies, detection systems, ancillaries and controls.



We also provide a complete range of anatomical pathology instruments including cassette and slide labeling systems, which enable on-demand slide and cassette printing, tissue processors for same-day tissue-processing, superior reagent management and higher lab efficiency, embedding stations, microtomes and cryostats used to section tissue, automated staining and cover slip systems used for primary and immunohistochemistry staining. In cytology, we offer low-speed centrifugation technology coupled with patented EZ cytofunnels to deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell capture and better preservation of cell morphology.



Our key customers include independent and hospital-based diagnostic laboratories engaged in the diagnosis of cancer, medical universities, as well as pharmaceutical and biotech research institutions.



Thermo Fisher manufactures high-quality flat-sheet glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates, cover glass and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics and scientific communities. We also offer specialized hydrophobic, adhesive and fluorescent slides through proprietary coating techniques.





Financial Statement Index11


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Biosciences



Our broad range of Biosciences products and services includes fine and high-purity chemistry products; nucleic acid synthesis reagents; high-performance polymerase chain reaction (PCR) reagents and related products; enzymes, reagents, kits and other consumables for molecular biology; RNA interference (RNAi) and other gene-modulation and gene-expression reagents; high-quality antibodies; proprietary protein analysis reagents and kits; high-content screening and analysis products; cell-culture products and sterile bioprocessing systems. These products are used across the general chemistry and life sciences arenas primarily for scientific research, drug discovery, diagnostics, as well as biopharmaceutical research and production.



Life Science Research



Our Life Science Research products provide innovative technologies, services and support to our global research and business partners. Focusing on genomics, proteomics and cell biology applications, these products are used in academic, government, diagnostic, biotechnology and pharmaceutical laboratories globally to understand biological processes and the basis of human diseases and to shorten the drug discovery and development process.





in vivo



Our Proteomics products enable the effective and efficient study of the biology of proteins and offer cell-based assays and services for high-content pathway analysis. Scientists use our reagents and kits for protein purification, protein detection and quantitation, protein sample preparation, protein labeling, and protein-interaction and related studies. These products provide scientists with new capabilities and help them achieve sensitive and accurate results more efficiently. Our extensive offering includes more than 30,000 high-quality antibodies, peptides and proteins, including many antibodies labeled with novel fluorescent dyes. Complementing the company’s technology leadership in mass spectroscopy, some of our products support a complete protein analysis workflow in MS ana
lysis, including innovative stable isotope-based reagents. Our specialized reagent kits and assays are powerful tools for fluorescent cell-based screening and analysis of specific molecular targets and biological parameters. Together, they comprise a wide range of high-content analysis and high-content screening assays.



Our Cellomics business provides leading technologies and products to advance cell science research, including complete systems for high-content imaging of cells, tissues and whole organisms. This total platform includes automated imaging instruments, image analysis software, data management and bioinformatics software, coupled with reagents, cell-culture media, sera and specialty media formulations, along with laboratory automation and services. This offering provides the life science researcher with a quantitative, automated approach to understanding the biology of cells, including stem cells and cell systems, supporting all aspects of the drug discovery process as well as academic and systems biology research.





Financial Statement Index12


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



BioProcess Production



Our BioProcess Production offerings include cell-culture and bioprocessing products used in the production of animal and human viral vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, protein-based therapeutics and wound healing. These products and technologies continue to lead the industry in innovation and quality, encompassing preeminent cell-culture products (sera, classical media, serum-free and protein-free media, and process liquids) and bioprocessing systems, including flexible, single-use BioProcess Container systems, which are sterile, disposable bags specifically designed for transporting, mixing, dispensing, and storing sterile liquids and powders. In particular, the innovative Single-Use Bioreactor (SUB) product line offers a single-use alternative to conventional stirred tank bioreactors cur
rently used in animal cell culture. The SUB emulates the scalability and operating parameters of the conventional stirred tank bioreactors yet is disposable, offering numerous process and regulatory advantages. The rapid acceptance of this technology is changing the landscape of the bioprocessing industry. These products are used in industrial and academic research markets for biotherapeutic discovery, cellular interaction studies, toxicity testing, antiviral and anticancer studies, as well as in biopharmaceutical manufacturing processes, where they have been specifically qualified for use in bioscience applications in the biopharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries.



Global Chemicals



Our Global Chemicals products provide solutions for chemistry-based applications to scientists involved in analysis, research and development, and manufacturing — primarily in the pharmaceutical, life sciences and high technology markets. We offer reliable, industry leading products and services through internal expertise and through partnerships with leading providers of chemical technology. We deliver these products and solutions through our extensive global distribution network. Our broad portfolio includes organic chemicals used in basic research applications to synthesize new materials. We also provide a comprehensive line of essential laboratory chemicals used by scientists to purify, extract, separate, identify and manufacture products. Our broad range of bioreagents is used
 in many different applications, from cell growth to detailed protein analysis. In addition, our offering of novel chemical building blocks, reactive intermediates and screening libraries are used by medicinal and organic chemists to accelerate drug discovery. We also provide bulk volumes of many of our products when customers scale up from research to development.



Laboratory Products and Services Segment









Financial Statement Index13


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



In the Research Market Channel, the Fisher Scientific catalog has been published for over 100 years and is an internationally recognized scientific supply resource. In the Research, Healthcare and Safety Market Channels, we publish more than 3 million copies of our various catalogs each year in eight different languages. Our e-commerce product references are showcased by our website,www.fishersci.com, which is a leading e-commerce site supporting the scientific research community. The website contains full product content for more than 390,000 products. We maintain an international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. With specialized product vaul
ts and temperature controlled storage capacity, we are able to handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. Our transportation capabilities include our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. Throughout the product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to comprehensive electronic systems allowing for automated catalog search, product order and invoicing and payment capabilities.



We deliver our products through third-party carriers and our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles. Third-party carriers include UPS, Federal Express, DHL and other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the U.S. Postal Service.



Laboratory Products



Laboratory Equipment



Our Laboratory Equipment products and integrated solutions are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and development, and by biotechnology companies and universities for life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance the quality of life.



We provide a broad range of equipment that is used for the preparation and preservation of chemical and biological samples, primarily for pharmaceutical, academic, clinical and government customers. Products include incubators that are used in biological experiments to allow growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions of temperature, carbon dioxide and humidity.



We are leaders in cold temperature storage equipment, ranging from laboratory refrigerators and freezers to ultralow temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks, which are used primarily for storing samples in a cold environment to protect from degradation. These systems may be customized to accommodate specific equipment, allowing reactions (such as chromatography) to be run under low-temperature conditions.



We also offer a wide range of centrifuges, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic materials. Our microcentrifuges are primarily used for the purification of nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory, our general use benchtop centrifuges are suitable for processing clinical samples such as blood and urine, and our floor models are used for large volume blood processing or in laboratories with high-throughput needs. Our super-speed and ultra-speed models are used for applications such as protein purification.



Our biological safety cabinets enable technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. Equipped with filtered air ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source, biological safety cabinets can be used for tissue culture, IVF, infectious samples, forensic analysis or bioterrorism research.





Financial Statement Index14


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



We offer a wide variety of microplate instruments for drug discovery, assay development, enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and applied testing markets. Our portfolio includes microplate detection instruments, multichannel reagent dispensing, magnetic particle purification systems, microplate washer and incubation equipment. Microplate detection instruments include UV, fluorescence, luminescence and multimode reader technologies. These instruments are designed for the analysis and optimization of assays, such as binding assays; absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion toxicity; molecular biology assays; enzyme kinetic studies; ion-channel; and cell signaling assays. Multichannel reagent dispensing is critical to the efficiency and reproducibility of assays and we offer a flexibl
e sample preparation system to meet the stringent requirements of reagent dispensing in pharmaceutical and biotechnology laboratories. We provide products for the purification of proteins, nucleic acids and cells in a convenient, rapid and reproducible manner using a patented magnetic particle method. The system consists of instruments, specially designed plastics and software to provide a total purification solution for customer applications.



We offer a variety of other laboratory products such as water purification systems, chillers, shakers, stirrers, hotplates, water baths, ovens, furnaces, vacuum concentrators and in a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical chemistry, manufacturing and quality control applications where temperature uniformity and control are critical.



We supply internet, phone and field technical support and service for laboratory equipment including installation, maintenance, repair and training on a worldwide basis via a network of internal phone support technicians and field-based service technicians as well as third-party service providers.



Laboratory Consumables



We manufacture and sell solutions consisting of plastics and glass consumables and related equipment to entities enhancing their scientific research, including drug discovery and development, quality and process control, clinical and basic research and development. The product configurations, material choice, surface treatments and cleaning methods are specifically selected to meet the demands of a vast array of life science applications. Our broad portfolio of laboratory consumables provides quality products that range from sample collection and preparation to sample handling and analysis.



Our scalable cell culture platforms are used for life science research, analysis and discovery. We offer a broad range of surface technologies to meet the different application needs from traditional stem cell to Human stem cell lines. We provide a complete range of cell culture products from laboratory research to production scale. Our formats include chamber slides, dishes, multidishes, flasks and gas permeable technologies. We also offer a complete line of serological pipettes and conical tubes to address sample handling within the cell culture process. Our cell factory product line and roller bottles are widely used in the manufacture of vaccines and biotherapeutics.



We have a full line of centrifugation consumables for applications ranging from sample preparation though downstream bioprocessing. Additionally, we manufacture sample storage vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage that offer specific products for low protein binding and low DNA binding functionality. We offer a wide selection of containers for packaging of life science and diagnostic reagents as well for the storage and transport of bulk intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients. Many of our containers are produced in ISO Class 7 Cleanrooms and carry specific certifications to meet increasing industry requirements.



We are a leading manufacturer of laboratory pipette tips and offer a complementary range of handheld and automated pipetting systems. This offering satisfies the liquid handling demands from low (manual) through high (automated) throughput levels. This diverse product portfolio is designed to optimize productivity, ergonomics, and ensure accurate results. Our detection instruments portfolio includes microplate readers, washers, purification systems, and PCR and qPCR instruments. These instruments offer researchers in the fields of cancer research, drug development, proteomics and genomics efficiency, high quality performance and accurate results.





Financial Statement Index15


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



We offer a complete selection of clinical specimen collection, Drug of Abuse collection kits and environmental and food safety glass and plastic vials, bottles and containers. We are a market leader in the manufacture of plastic transfer pipettes and general purpose clinical laboratory consumables. We also offer containers for breast milk collection, storage and feeding primarily used in neo-natal units and by lactation specialists.



We provide chromatography consumables for both liquid and gas chromatography including HPLC columns, GC columns, fittings, tubing, injection liners, GC septa, auto-sampler vials, closures and general chromatography accessories. Our chromatography sample preparation products range from syringe filter and solid phase extraction consumables to manual and automated chromatography glass syringes.



In addition, we provide OEM and custom kit assembly services for clinical test kits and drug of abuse. Our custom cleaning services and specialty coatings include sterilization, depyrogenation, low particulate, low TOC, silanization and siliconization used in drug discovery.



Laboratory Workstations



We are a major supplier of laboratory workstations and fume hoods for either new construction or laboratory renovation. Our product offerings include steel, wood and plastic laminate casework systems, adaptable furniture systems, chemical ventilation fume hoods and chemical storage cabinets and various other laboratory fixtures and accessories.



Customer Channels







We go to market through our broad sales force, global network of resellers and distributors, printed catalogs, and state-of-the-art website. We maintain a global sales force of over 1,500 personnel, augmented by a large global network of resellers and distributors. Our print catalogs range from hardcopy volumes that include detailed descriptions of over 40,000 products to industry-specific catalogs targeted to customers in such industries as wine-testing, food safety and controlled environments. In addition to our print catalogs, we maintain an on-line catalog via ourwww.fishersci.comwebsite that allows our customers to search our product portfolio and purchase over 1,000,000 products on-line.





Financial Statement Index16


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Research Market Channel



Our Research Market Channel offerings include a wide range of products and services from a single source designed to allow our customers to engage more accurately and efficiently in laboratory research and development throughout the world. Our customers represent all industries requiring any level of laboratory research, including but not limited to the medical research, pharmaceutical, biotech, food and agriculture, government, academic and manufacturing industries.



Our products include all forms of laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals to consumable products. We offer a mix of products that are manufactured by Thermo Fisher, that are manufactured by third parties for us on a private-label basis, and that are manufactured by third parties under their brand but offered for sale exclusively through us. We also offer a broad range of third-party products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive basis.



Our print catalog consists of more than 40,000 products. Beyond this catalog, we offer our customers access to an additional 900,000 products. Our e-commerce website,www.fishersci.com, has been an industry-leading online ordering and reference tool since its inception in the 1990s.



In addition to our broad product offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our Managed Services team. Services provided to customers include dedicated logistics personnel who manage inventory and provide desktop delivery, coordinate instrument calibration and service, facilitate glass washing, provide on-site customer service and deliver other services that allow our customers to focus on their core research activities.



Healthcare Market Channel



Our Healthcare Market Channel offerings include a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment, instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, physicians’ offices and other clinical testing facilities. These products are manufactured by Thermo Fisher and third parties.



Healthcare Market products and solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological samples. Major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic and cardiac risk management solutions, along with blood collection devices, consumable vials and transportation devices, as well as an extensive portfolio of rapid diagnostic testing devices for drugs-of-abuse testing and diagnosis and monitoring of cancer, endocrine function and cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, nervous system, respiratory and sexually transmitted diseases. The Healthcare Market core product offering also includes high-end diagnostic instruments and equipment together with the reagents used in those instruments and equipment to perform diagnostic tests. Sales in the healthcare market a
re fueled by the administration and evaluation of diagnostic tests. We believe that the aging population, as well as the increased demand for the development of new specialty diagnostic tests, will result in increased market growth.



In addition to our broad product offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through our Managed Services team. Services provided to customers include dedicated logistics personnel that manage inventory, provide on-site customer service, and deliver other services that allow our customers to focus on their core responsibilities.





Financial Statement Index17


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Safety Market Channel



Through our Safety Market Channel we supply safety-related products to various industries including laboratory research, industrial manufacturing, healthcare, universities, food/agriculture, environmental and petrochemical as well as government and municipal agencies, fire departments and military units. Products offered to these markets include: cleanroom and controlled-environment supplies; personal protective equipment such as respirators, clothing, gloves, hardhats, hearing protection and eyewear; fall protection harnesses and restraints; self-contained breathing apparatus; specialized firefighting and military equipment and supplies; environmental monitoring and sampling equipment; and first responder supplies and equipment such as decontamination tents, bio-isolation systems, chemi
cal protective suits and emergency response trailers. We offer products mainly manufactured by third parties as well as those manufactured by Thermo Fisher.



We also provide access to a broad offering of training, equipment servicing and on-site inventory management support through our dedicated safety sales professionals, equipment service employees and on-site customer support teams. Our goal is to provide a total solution of products, training and support to our customers.



BioPharma Services



Our BioPharma Services offerings include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in clinical trials, including specialized packaging, over-encapsulation, multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase I through phase IV clinical trials, analytical testing, biological-specimen management, as well as specialty pharmaceutical logistics and clinical supply-chain management. Thermo Fisher’s biorepository business provides temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. Our biorepository services business stores pharmacological and biospecimen samples at commercial sites. Additional services include inventory management, validation, business continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities resulting in a complete cold chain sample management solution.



Services are offered throughout the world, with operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Switzerland, India, Latin America, China, Ireland, Singapore, Japan and Russia.



Sales and Marketing



We market and sell our products and services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals, electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs.



We have approximately 10,500 sales and service personnel including over 1,000 highly trained technical specialists who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. We also provide customers with product standardization and other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs.



New Products and Research and Development



Our business includes the development and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business segments. We are not currently committed to any new products that require the investment of a material amount of our funds, nor do we have any definitive plans to enter new businesses that would require such an investment.



During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we spent $287.2 million, $246.1 million and $249.1 million, respectively, on research and development.



Financial Statement Index18


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Raw Materials



Our management team believes that we have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant products from various sources. We do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining the raw materials essential to our business. Raw-material and fuel prices are subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. We employ many strategies, including the use of alternative materials and the use of derivative instruments, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our results.



Patents, Licenses and Trademarks



Patents are important in both segments of our business. No particular patent, or related group of patents, is so important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a whole. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel and incorporated into our products or otherwise falling within our fields of interest. Patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the company and may be limited by agreements or contracts.



We protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with products. We also enter into license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how.



Seasonal Influences



Revenues in the fourth quarter are historically stronger than in other quarters due to the capital spending patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers. Sales of flu tests and related diagnostic products vary quarter to quarter and year to year based on the severity and duration of flu season.



Working Capital Requirements



There are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital.



Dependency on a Single Customer



There is no single customer the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. No customer accounted for more than 5% of our total revenues in any of the past three years.



Backlog



Our backlog of firm orders at year-end 2010 and 2009 was as follows:



(In millions)20102009Analytical Technologies$925.2$857.0Laboratory Products and Services488.2480.8$1,413.4$1,337.8



We believe that virtually all of our backlog at the end of 2010 will be filled during 2011.



Government Contracts



Although the company transacts business with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial results.





Financial Statement Index19
THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.

Item 1.            Business (continued)



Competition



The company encounters aggressive and able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. Because of the diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competitors and competition. Our competitors include a broad range of manufacturers and third-party distributors. In general, competitive climates in the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer demands that require continuing research and development. Our success in these markets primarily depends on the following factors:



·technical performance and advances in technology that result in new products and improved price/performance ratios;



·product differentiation, availability and reliability;



·the depth of our capabilities;



·our reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and services;



·customer service and support;



·active research and application-development programs; and



·relative prices of our products and services.



Environmental Matters



We are subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the United States and other countries. U.S. federal environmental legislation that affects us includes the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). We are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations.



In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters under state laws. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements.



A number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. Consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses.



Our expenses for environmental requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical remediation matters. Based on current information, we believe that these compliance costs are not material. For historical remediation obligations, our expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial measures.



Our Fair Lawn and Somerville, New Jersey, facilities are the subject of administrative consent orders issued by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection in 1984. Our Rockford, Illinois, facility is subject to a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) corrective action program administered by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. We are required to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these sites. As the owner of the Fair Lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially responsible party for remediation within an area called the Fair Lawn Wellfields Superfund Site.





Financial Statement Index20


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



We record accruals for environmental liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. We calculate estimates based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental specialists and management’s knowledge and experience with these environmental matters. We include in these estimates potential costs for investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. Accrued liabilities for environmental matters totaled $22 million at December 31, 2010. The liability for environmental matters associated with Fisher was recorded at the date of merger at its fair value and as such was discounted to its net present 
value.



These environmental liabilities do not include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. We believe that our accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to incur. As a result, we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, we may be subject to additional remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results 
of operations or cash flows.



Regulatory Affairs



Our operations, and some of the products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and security standards of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Food and Drug Administration, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. As Thermo Fisher’s businesses also include export and import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the U.S. Departments of Commerce, State and Treasury. In addition, our logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the Department 
of Transportation, the Federal Aviation Administration and similar foreign agencies. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. To date, none has had a material impact on our operations.



We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment.



Number of Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 37,200 employees.



Financial Information About Geographic Areas



Financial information about geographic areas is summarized in Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which begin on page F-1 of this report.





Financial Statement Index21


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Available Information



The company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Exchange Act. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge on or through our own website at www.thermofisher.com our A
nnual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its Investor Relations Department at our principal executive office located at 81 Wyman Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



NameAgePresent Title (Fiscal Year First Became Executive Officer)Marc N. Casper42President and Chief Executive Officer (2001)Kenneth Berger48Senior Vice President (2010)Gregory J. Herrema45Senior Vice President (2008)Seth H. Hoogasian56Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (2001)Alan J. Malus51Senior Vice President (2006)Edward A. Pesicka43Senior Vice President (2008)Peter M. Wilver51Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2003)Peter E. Hornstra51Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (2001)



Mr. Casper was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in October 2009. He was Chief Operating Officer from May 2008 to October 2009 and Executive Vice President from November 2006 to October 2009. He was Senior Vice President from December 2003 to November 2006. He was President, Life and Laboratory Sciences from December 2001 to March 2005.



Mr. Berger was appointed Senior Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President, Specialty Diagnostics in May 2010. He was President of the Biosciences business from April 2007 until May 2010, and was President of the Process Instruments business from July 2005 through April 2007.



Mr. Herrema was appointed Senior Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President of Analytical Instruments in May 2008. He was President, Scientific Instruments from May 2006 to October 2009. He was President, Environmental Instruments from January 2002 to May 2006.



Mr. Hoogasian was appointed Senior Vice President in November 2006, Secretary in 2001 and General Counsel in 1992. He was Vice President from 1996 to November 2006.



Mr. Malus was appointed President of Laboratory Products in July 2008 and Senior Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific in November 2006. Prior to Thermo’s merger with Fisher, Mr. Malus was group president of distribution and services for Fisher, where he focused on growing the company’s customer channel businesses serving research, healthcare, education and safety markets. Mr. Malus joined Fisher in 1998 and served in a variety of management roles.





Financial Statement Index22


THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.



Item 1.            Business (continued)



Mr. Pesicka was appointed Senior Vice President of Thermo Fisher Scientific and President, Customer Channels in July 2008. He was President, Research Market from November 2006 to July 2008. Prior to Thermo’s merger with Fisher, Mr. Pesicka was Vice President and General Manager of Fisher’s U.S. research market business from January 2004 to November 2006.



Mr. Wilver was appointed Senior Vice President in November 2006 and Chief Financial Officer in October 2004. He was Vice President from October 2004 to November 2006.



Mr. Hornstra was appointed Vice President in February 2007 and Chief Accounting Officer in January 2001. He was Corporate Controller from January 1996 to February 2007.

